The Bombardier factory is seen in Belfast, Northern Ireland September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Clodagh Kilcoyne

(Reuters) - The U.S. Commerce Department on Tuesday slapped preliminary anti-subsidy duties on Bombardier Incs CSeries jets after rival Boeing Co accused Canada of unfairly subsidizing the aircraft, a move likely to strain trade relations between the neighbors.
The department said it imposed a steep 219.63 percent countervailing duty on Bombardiers new commercial jets after it made a preliminary finding of subsidization.
Boeing has complained the 110-to-130 seat aircraft were dumped below cost in the U.S. market last year while benefiting from unfair subsidies.
An April 2016 order for 75 CSeries jets from Delta Air Lines stemmed from the same harmful sales practices European rival Airbus SE employed to win business in the 1990s, according to Boeing.
The Commerce Departments penalty against Bombardier will only take effect if the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) rules in Boeings favor in a final decision expected in 2018.
We strongly disagree with the Commerce Departments preliminary decision, Bombardier said in a statement, calling the magnitude of the proposed U.S. duty absurd.
Commerces announcement and accompanying fact sheet on the preliminary duty order did not provide any rationale or methodology for how it calculated the 220 percent duty.
There are not that many Commerce countervailing orders that are this high, but it is lower than the 256 percent final duties slapped on Chinese cold-rolled steel last year.
The CSeries starts at $79.5 million, according to list prices, but carriers usually receive discounts of about 50 percent.
Subsidy-related duties would add considerably to the cost of the jets within the U.S. market and prices could rise even further if Commerce announces additional anti-dumping duties in a ruling expected early next month.
Boeing said in a statement: This dispute has nothing to do with limiting innovation or competition, which we welcome.
Rather, it has everything to do with maintaining a level playing field and ensuring that aerospace companies abide by trade agreements.
Bombardiers was unwilling to swallow the extra cost for airlines if the United States slaps duties on its CSeries jet, Reuters reported on Tuesday, citing people familiar with the matter.
Canadas foreign affairs minister Chrystia Freeland said Canada strongly disagrees with the anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations into imports of Canadian large civil aircraft.
This is clearly aimed at eliminating Bombardiers C Series aircraft from the U.S. market, Freeland said.
Duties could chill U.S. sales of the fuel-efficient CSeries, raising concerns over future orders and jobs in Canada and the United Kingdom.
Bombardier is the largest manufacturing employer in Northern Ireland.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had put his governments planned purchase of Boeing Super Hornet fighter jets on hold because of the trade dispute, saying it could not do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business.
NOT A SLAM DUNK

Boeing has argued that the military sale to the Canadian government and its petition against Bombardier are not linked.
But the U.S. jetmaker has said the CSeries would not exist without hundreds of millions of dollars in launch aid from the governments of Canada and Britain, or a $2.5 billion equity infusion from the province of Quebec and its largest pension fund in 2015.
To win its case before the ITC, Boeing must prove it was harmed by Bombardiers sales practices, despite not using one of its own jets to compete for the Delta order, Dan Pearson, a senior fellow at the libertarian Cato Institute think tank in Washington, said before Tuesdays announcement.
This (ITC case) cannot be a slam dunk, said Pearson, a former ITC chairman.
Im having a hard time figuring out how Boeing was harmed by this.
Canada has pushed to settle the dispute.
But one industry source said Boeing, which could gain some leverage with the Commerce Departments initial decision in its favor, sees the possible CSeries dumping as a long-term threat to its civilian airliner business.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The S&P 500 ended flat on Tuesday and the Nasdaq posted modest gains as technology shares bounced from sharp losses in the prior session and comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen boosted expectations of a December rate hike.
Yellen said the Fed needs to continue gradual rate hikes and it would be imprudent to leave rates on hold until inflation reached the Feds 2-percent target.
Earlier in the session, Atlanta Fed Chief Raphael Bostic, a non-voting member this year, said he would want clear evidence that prices were firming before committing to another rate increase, but did not rule out another hike in 2017.
Chances of a rate hike in December rose to 78 percent from about 40 percent a month ago, according to CME Groups FedWatch tool.
Investors should be looking out for a December hike given we dont know what happens to the Fed chair position next year.
(Yellen), probably wants to be able to, knowing anyone new in that role might not feel comfortable tightening the first month, said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago.
Economic data showed U.S consumer confidence fell in September while home sales dropped to an eight-month low in August due to the impact of Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average .DJI fell 10.05 points, or 0.05 percent, to 22,286.04, the S&P 500 .SPX gained 0.23 points, or 0.01 percent, to 2,496.89 and the Nasdaq Composite .IXIC added 9.57 points, or 0.15 percent, to 6,380.16.
A trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan Mcdermid

Technology .SPLRCT, up 0.4 percent, was the best performing major sector, recovering somewhat from losses in the prior session.
Tech shares suffered their worst one-day drop in five weeks on Monday as concerns over tensions with North Korea prompted investors to book profits in what has been the best performing sector this year.
Apple (AAPL.O) rose 1.72 percent after four straight sessions of losses to help prop up the three major indexes, after Raymond James boosted its price target on the iPhone maker to $180 from $170.
It is a little bit of a relief knowing perhaps investors still believe in buying the dips even after the Feds announcement of reduced balance sheet purchases, said Ablin.
President Donald Trump warned North Korea any U.S. military option would be devastating for Pyongyang, but said the use of force was not Washingtons first option to deal with the Norths ballistic and nuclear weapons program.
Darden Restaurants (DRI.N) slumped 6.53 percent after the Olive Garden parent said it expected the negative effects on sales and earnings from Hurricane Irma to be about double that from Hurricane Harvey.
Red Hat (RHT.N) rose climbed 4.09 percent after the Linux distributors quarterly profit came in above estimates and the company raised its full-year forecast.
Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.31-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.35-to-1 ratio favored advancers.
About 5.81 billion shares changed hands in U.S. exchanges, compared with the 5.96 billion daily average over the last 20 sessions.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) told a congressional committee on Tuesday he did not believe his predecessor Mary Jo White knew of a 2016 cyber breach to the regulators corporate disclosure system, the exact timing of which could not be known for sure.
Jay Clayton, who was formally appointed to his role in May, also said listed companies should disclose more detailed information on cyber breaches sooner, and that the U.S. regulator was working on new guidelines to ensure this.
The Senate Banking Committee grilled Clayton on Tuesday over a 2016 hack of EDGAR, the agencys online corporate financial disclosure system, only disclosed last Wednesday, which has shaken confidence in the SECs cyber defenses.
Clayton said he had decided last weekend to disclose the breach once he had enough information to establish it was serious, but he would not be drawn on who at the agency had known about it and whether there was an attempt to cover it up.
I have no belief sitting here that Chair White knew, Clayton said when asked whether his predecessor had been aware of the hack, adding: I dont think we can know for sure on the exact timing of the breach.
Clayton fielded several questions from senators on the recent Equifax Inc data breach in which hackers stole personal data of about 143 million customers of the credit reporting firm, including on the timing of the companys disclosure.
Although the former Wall Street lawyer declined to comment on whether the SEC was investigating stock sales made by Equifax executives prior to the disclosure, he said he was not ignoring the issue.
The hearing, which had been scheduled prior to the disclosure of the SECs breach, offered lawmakers, companies and investors the first opportunity to hear from the SEC chief on the incident.
Clayton originally had been scheduled to discuss capital market reform at his first hearing before the committee since being formally appointed in May, but his pro-growth agenda was largely eclipsed by the SEC breach and the Equifax scandal.
Wall Streets top regulator came under fire last week after disclosing that hackers might have used information stolen from EDGAR, which houses millions of market-sensitive corporate disclosures such as earnings releases, for insider trading.
When we learn a year after the fact that the SEC had its own breach and that it likely led to illegal stock trades, it raises questions about why the SEC seems to have swept this under the rug, Senator Sherrod Brown, the ranking Democratic member of the committee, asked Clayton during opening remarks.
What else are we not being told, what other information is at risk, and what are the consequences?
Brown asked.
How can you expect companies to do the right thing when your agency has not?
CYBER DEFENSES EYED

Reuters reported on Monday that the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the U.S. Secret Service have launched investigations into the breach, which occurred in October 2016 and appeared to have been routed through servers in Eastern Europe.
The breach appeared to have been one of several cyber incidents documented by the SEC in recent months, Reuters reported.
Clayton said he only learned about the 2016 hack in August and that the SECs enforcement staff and inspector generals office have launched internal probes.
The regulator reported the breach to the Department of Homeland Securitys Computer Emergency Readiness Team when it was first discovered, Clayton said in the testimony, adding the regulator plans to hire more cyber security experts.
Clayton said the hack was possibly the result of a defect in the EDGAR software and said that personally identifiable information did not appear to have been put at risk, but he declined to provide further detail.
He said the SEC was still determining the extent and impact of the breach and that it could take substantial time to complete due to the amount of data that needed to be analyzed.
The committee also quizzed Clayton about other potential breaches at the agency and the regulators general cyber defenses.
Clayton said he could not say with 100 percent certainty that the EDGAR breach was the only one suffered by the agency, and added that he planned to ask Congress for more funds to tackle the rising cyber threat.
Were going to need more money for cyber security, and I intend to ask for it.
The logo of Boeing (BA) is seen in Los Angeles, California, United States, April 22, 2016.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson/File Photo

SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Boeing Co (BA.N) will invest $33 million for a majority stake in a joint venture with Commercial Aircraft Corp of China (COMAC) that will oversee the U.S. planemakers new 737 completion plant in China, the China Daily reported.
The firms had signed an agreement to set up the joint venture with registered capital of $55 million, the state-run newspaper said on Wednesday.
Boeing would take a 60 percent share, while COMAC would invest $40 million for the remainder.
Construction of the factory in the eastern city of Zhoushan began in May.
It would install interiors and paint liveries.
Boeing had not previously disclosed how much it would invest in its first overseas completion and delivery center outside the United States.
It aims to deliver 100 planes a year.
The China Daily, citing COMAC, added that the Chinese planemaker would participate in the completion tasks with Boeing employees, but how the two sides would share the work was still unknown.
The delivery center would be owned by Boeing.
Boeing and its European rival Airbus (AIR.PA) are expanding their footprint in China as they vie for orders in the worlds fastest growing aviation market.
Airbus last week opened its Chinese completion plant for A330 jets in the eastern city of Tianjin.
MUNICH/PARIS (Reuters) - German industrial group Siemens AG (SIEGn.DE) and French rival Alstom SA (ALSO.PA) agreed on Tuesday to merge their rail operations, creating a European champion to better withstand the international advance of Chinas state-owned CRRC Corp Ltd (601766.SS).
Siemens will own 50 percent plus a few shares of the joint venture, while Alstom will supply Henri Poupart-Lafarge as chief executive, helping to counter criticism that France is giving up control of another national industrial icon.
The non-executive chairman will come from Siemens.
The framework deal, which still has to be approved by Alstom shareholders as well as regulators, is a Franco-German industrial breakthrough for French President Emmanuel Macron but a move that has riled opposition politicians.
Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said on Tuesday the French government welcomed the planned tie-up, which he said would protect French jobs.
The French state said it would not exercise an option to buy a 20 percent stake in Alstom from industrial group Bouygues SA (BOUY.PA).
The Siemens and Alstom transport businesses span the iconic French TGV and German ICE high-speed trains as well as signalling and rail technology.
They have combined sales of 15.3 billion euros ($18 billion) and earnings before interest and tax of 1.2 billion euros.
This Franco-German merger of equals sends a strong signal in many ways.
We put the European idea to work and together with our friends at Alstom, we are creating a new European champion in the rail industry for the long term, said Siemens CEO Joe Kaeser.
Alstoms Poupart-Lafarge said: Today is a key moment in Alstoms history, confirming its position as the platform for the rail sector consolidation.
The deal leaves out in the cold Canadian transportation group Bombardier Inc (BBDb.TO), which also held talks with Siemens, sources have said, and which faces a separate battle this week to protect jobs in Quebec and Northern Ireland.
Chinas CRRC, with annual revenue of about $35 billion, is bigger than Siemens Mobility, Alstom and Bombardier Transportation combined.
Previously focused on China, it has won projects in Britain and the Czech Republic in the past year, and is eyeing the United Kingdoms High Speed 2 project, which will connect London with cities in the north of England.
SPECIAL DIVIDENDS

Siemens will receive newly issued shares in the combined company representing 50 percent of Alstoms share capital and warrants allowing it eventually to acquire another 2 percent of Alstom shares.
However, the deal prevents Siemens from owning more than 50.5 percent of Alstom for four years after closing, and includes certain governance and organizational and employment protections, Siemens and Alstom said in their statement.
The deal is unanimously supported by Alstoms board, Siemens supervisory board and Alstom shareholder Bouygues, the companies said.
The French government acquired its option on the Bouygues stake in Alstom in 2014 as part of a deal that helped Alstom snub Siemens as a buyer for its energy business in favour of General Electric Co (GE.N).
Macron was economy minister at the time.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of Alstom is seen before a news conference to present the company's full year 2016/17 annual results in Saint-Ouen, near Paris, France, May 4, 2017.
REUTERS/Gonzalo Fuentes/Files

The global headquarters, rolling stock business and stock-market listing of the new entity, to be called Siemens Alstom, will be in Paris and the signalling and technology business in Berlin.
The new company, with 62,300 employees, targets synergies of 470 million euros four years at the latest after closing of the deal, which is expected at the end of 2018.
The companies said their operations were largely complementary, with Alstom present in growth markets in the Middle East and Africa, India, and Central and South America, while Siemens was strong in China, the United States and Russia.
Siemens CEO Kaeser said ahead of the signing of the memorandum of understanding he believed the scale of Chinas CRRC left little room for regulators to oppose a deal.
It always depends, but the facts are that there is a dominant player, he told Reuters in an interview in New York.
Siemens stands to gain control of Alstoms main business, since all of Alstoms divisions deal with the railways and transportation industries.
FILE PHOTO: A logo of Siemens is pictured on a building in Mexico City, Mexico, May 16, 2017.
REUTERS/Edgard Garrido

Existing Alstom shareholders will be paid two special dividends: a control premium of 4 euros per share to be paid shortly after closing of the transaction and an extraordinary dividend of up to 4 euros per share to be paid out of the proceeds of Alstoms put options for its General Electric joint venture, subject to the cash position of Alstom.
SIGNS OF BACKLASH

While the French government backs the deal, several opposition politicians and French trade union activists expressed concerns.
Their worries centre on France losing control of its TGV high-speed train  a symbol of national pride that has highlighted French engineering skill  and possible job losses.
French right-wing politician Nicolas Dupont-Aignan criticised the deal as being more favourable to Germany than France, as did far-right politician Nicolas Bay, the National Fronts secretary general, who said on Twitter that it could result in the eradication of French industry.
Eric Woerth, a member of the right-wing Republicans party, voiced similar views on his Twitter account.
Is this now the end of Alstom?
Will TGV become German?
Why does the government accept such an imbalance?
A branch of the CFDT trade union representing Alstom workers wrote on Twitter: Macron abandoned Alstom to GE and hes now abandoning them to Siemens.
Macron served as economy minister for two years from August 2014.
Analysts at Exane BNP Paribas raised their rating on Alstom to neutral from underweight noting a deal offered better growth prospects than remaining a standalone company.
We suggest that, if they participate, value creation would be limited for Siemens but material for Alstom, the Exane BNP Paribas analysts wrote.
Aside from the M&A (mergers and acquisition) angle, we believe that commercially, this year will be relatively muted for Alstom.
With no large contracts in sight, pressure on free cash flow should intensify due to lack of down payments received.
For Alstom, Siemens share prices: reut.rs/2y3hDbK
The Toys R Us logo is seen in this illustration photo September 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas White/Illustration

SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The thought of Toys R Us closing stores due to its recent bankruptcy filing is too much for one nine-year-old to bear, according to court papers.
In a handwritten letter entered on Monday in the bankruptcy docket of the largest U.S. toy store chain, the child argued store closings will be bad for kids and would leave them very unhappy.
The retailers stores are special for children, who would rather be promised a trip to Toy R Us than any other store, the child said in the letter to U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Keith Phillips, who is overseeing the bankruptcy case.
The letter identifies the child only as Andrew.
The childs last name was blacked out.
The letter was entered into the Toys R Us docket like any other document, Phillips judicial assistant told Reuters.
Toys R Us filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this month to restructure $5 billion of its long-term debt.
It did not, however, file with plans for store closures as has been typical of many retailers that have sought to restructure or liquidate in court in recent years.
A sign is pictured where the third round of NAFTA talks involving the United States, Mexico and Canada is taking place in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Chris Wattie

OTTAWA (Reuters) - The United States on Tuesday unveiled draft text on labor standards during the negotiations on modernizing the North American Free Trade Agreement as top officials from Canada, the United States and Mexico joined talks in Ottawa.
The U.S. said the labor proposal would ensure enforceable mechanisms to raise labor standards in the NAFTA but Canadian labor unions said it was inadequate.
U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland and Mexicos Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo joined the talks on Tuesday.
The countries are rushing to reach an agreement by the end of the year before Mexicos presidential campaign begins, a deadline that former trade negotiators have said is unrealistic.
The labor proposal is the latest of three new draft texts presented by the U.S. in Ottawa.
U.S. proposals on investment and intellectual property were also presented in this round after U.S. negotiator John Melle said more challenging issues will start taking center stage.
Labor leaders of the two wealthier NAFTA nations say laxer labor standards and lower pay in Mexico have swelled corporate profits at the expense of Canadian and U.S. workers, making the issue one of the major battlegrounds of the NAFTA talks.
Officials with knowledge of the U.S. proposal said it did not detail wage levels for workers.
Mexican business leaders have argued that workers rights and pay is an internal issue for each country to resolve.
With President Trump as one of labors biggest supporters, the United States has put forward a detailed proposal that replaces the original NAFTAs toothless approach on labor with enforceable provisions to benefit workers across America, USTR spokeswoman Emily Davis said.
The United States advocacy for workers includes seeking commitments from Mexico and Canada to respect collective bargaining and other core labor standards, she added.
Canadian labor union leaders said the U.S. proposal resembled text outlined in the Trans Pacific Partnership trade pact with many Asian nations which Trump withdrew the U.S. from.
The U.S. proposal makes no sense to me, Jerry Dias, president of Canadas UNIFOR labor union, told reporters.
The American proposal is the TPP proposal with a bit of a twist, which isnt going to resolve the issues of better working conditions.
Teamsters Canada spokesman Christopher Monette said the Canadian proposal on labor went further in pushing for improved working conditions in all three NAFTA countries.
It is inadequate, Monette said of the US draft text.
Congressman Sandy Levin, a Democrat from Michigan, who was in Ottawa at the weekend, cautioned on Monday that the Democratic party would not support a revised NAFTA agreement without dramatic change in Mexicos labor standards.
Mexicos so called comparative advantage not only condemns numerous Mexican workers to working in or near poverty, but it lowers wages and rips away jobs from workers in the United States, especially in the auto industry, he told the Council on Foreign Relations.
USTRs Davis said the negotiations were progressing at an unprecedented pace with the U.S. presenting text in 27 NAFTA chapters in the five weeks since talks began.
Canadian and Mexican officials, however, have complained that the U.S. side has been slow to present proposals on the biggest issues which are likely to take time to negotiate.
A joint statement on the Ottawa round is expected at 2:30 p.m. New York time (1830 GMT) on Wednesday.
The next round of talks will be held in Washington around Oct. 11.
Asked by reporters in Ottawa about the lack of specific proposals on key issues, chief U.S. negotiator John Melle, Weve been working very hard so I dont see a problem.
The thorniest issue in the talks, NAFTAs rules of origin that determine how much of a product needs to originate in the NAFTA region, was discussed on Tuesday, according to a copy of the agenda obtained by Reuters, but the United States has still to present its demands on the issue.
The Trump administration wants more substantial U.S. content in autos, the main source of the $64-billion trade deficit with Mexico and the $11-billion deficit with Canada.
The United States draft text on NAFTA investment did not elaborate on changes to the dispute mechanism that allows an investor from a NAFTA country to sue a member government, according to two sources with knowledge of discussions.
LONDON (Reuters) - Uber [UBER.UL] is expected to tell a British employment appeal tribunal on Wednesday that its drivers are self-employed and not workers entitled to a range of extra benefits, less than a week after the firm was told it would lose its London license.
The U.S. ride hailing service has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world amid opposition from traditional taxi services and concern among some regulators.
It has been forced to quit several countries, such as Denmark and Hungary.
Losing its license in London, one of the worlds wealthiest cities, is one of the U.S. technology firms biggest setbacks so far.
The London regulator cited the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
It can operate during its appeal, which could last months.
Last year, two drivers successfully argued at a tribunal that Uber exerted significant control over them to provide an on-demand taxi service and had responsibilities in terms of workers rights.
At the two-day appeal hearing starting on Wednesday Uber will argue its drivers are self-employed and work the same way as those at long-established local taxi firms, according to a court document seen by Reuters.
The self-employed are entitled to only basic protections such as health and safety, but workers receive benefits such as the minimum wage, paid holidays and rest breaks.
This would add to Ubers costs and bureaucracy across Britain.
Those in a third category, called employees, receive all those entitlements as well as other benefits such as statutory sick pay and maternity or paternity leave.
Almost all taxi and private-hire drivers have been self-employed for decades before our app existed, an Uber spokesman said before Wednesdays hearing.
Uber drivers have more control and are totally free to choose if, when and where they drive with no shifts or minimum hours, he said.
Trade union-led protesters are expected to march through central London on Wednesday against what they deem precarious labor in the gig economy, where people work for various employers at the same time without fixed contracts.
Uber faces a further challenge as law firm Leigh Day said it would represent a female driver who says Uber is putting her and other women at risk as the driver does not know the passengers destination until they are already in the car and that could mean traveling to a remote or unsafe area.
An Uber spokesman said drivers could cancel trips without penalty and did not have to go to a particular area if they did not want to.
He said many women worked for Uber due to its safety features.
One of the main reasons why women choose to drive with Uber is because of the safety features in the app.
All trips are GPS tracked and a driver is able to share a live map of their trip with a friend or loved one, he said.
CLEVELAND (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve needs to continue gradual rate hikes despite broad uncertainty about the path of inflation, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said on Tuesday in remarks that acknowledged the central banks struggles to forecast one of its key policy objectives.
It is possible, Yellen said, that the Fed may have misspecified its models for inflation, and misjudged key facts like the underlying strength of the labor market and whether inflation expectations are as stable as they seem, and central bankers need to remain open to that possibility as they decide on policy.
Still, recent low inflation was likely a reflection of factors that would fade over time and despite uncertainties, it would be imprudent to keep monetary policy on hold until inflation is back to 2 percent, Yellen said in a 37-page address to the National Association for Business Economics

Without further modest increases in the federal funds rate over time, there is a risk that the labor market could eventually become overheated, potentially creating an inflationary problem down the road that might be difficult to overcome without triggering a recession, she said.
Yellens remarks attempt to resolve a debate that has split members of the central bank among those worried that inflation may be permanently anchored below the Feds 2 percent target because of structural changes in the global economy, and those who feel it is only a matter of time before tight labor markets lead wages and prices to rise.
She did not provide a definite answer, noting that in current forecasts there was a 30 percent chance inflation could range anywhere from 1 percent to 3 percent, vastly different outcomes either of which could rewrite the Feds policy approach.
But she did make clear the Fed still feels a gradual pace of rate hikes remains the base case.
Kevin Logan, chief U.S. economist at HSBC Securities, in New York, said her message is that theyre not really sure whether the weak inflation is transitory but that nonetheless policy is accommodative.
The gradual approach means that, even if they are wrong on inflation it wont be a big mistake.
Thats the message they are trying to convey.
The dollar shot up then retreated after Yellens comments, reflecting uncertainty about her message.
Treasury yields and stocks edged slightly higher.
INFLATION DEBATE

The Fed, which has raised rates twice this year, last week held rates steady and released forecasts that suggest most policymakers expect to raise rates once more by year-end and three times further next year.
Traders of short-term interest-rate futures see about a 76 percent chance of December rate hike, but are betting on only one rate hike next year.
Yellen said Tuesday she would be looking at inflation and labor market data closely in coming months to assess the outlook, but the data is noisy and its not going to be a magic bullet.
And while the timing of rate hikes may not be predictable, she said, the path is likely to be gradual.
Yellen walked systematically through arguments that weak inflation reflected structural changes, and largely discounted them.
There was not yet empirical support for the theory that global trade, worldwide supply chains, and other forces were holding down U.S. prices, she said.
Meanwhile, the Fed calculates that cyclical slack in the labor market was now having a negligible impact on low inflation readings, compared to oil prices and other changes that will fade.
And some aspects of the labor market that appear weak, such as the still-elevated number of part-time workers, may reflect permanent changes in the workforce, and not cyclical factors, Yellen said.
There were many uncertainties, however, and downward pressure on inflation could prove unexpectedly persistent.
My colleagues and I may have misjudged the strength of the labor market, the degree to which longer-run inflation expectations are consistent with our inflation objective, or even the fundamental forces driving inflation, possibilities which the Fed needs to examine over time and change the course of policy if needed.
But for now the Fed continues to anticipate that, with gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, inflation will rise and stabilize at around 2 percent over the medium term, she said.
We should be wary of moving too gradually.
Specialist traders work at the post where Sprint is traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A divided Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday approved a report that found for the first time since 2009 there is effective competition in the wireless market, a finding that could help Sprint Corp and T-Mobile US Inc to merge.
Reuters reported last week that the wireless carriers are close to agreeing on tentative terms on a deal to merge, a major breakthrough in efforts to merge the third and fourth largest U.S. wireless carriers.
The transaction would significantly consolidate the U.S. telecommunications market and represent the first transformative U.S. merger with significant antitrust risk since President Donald Trumps inauguration.
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai said most reasonable people see a fiercely competitive marketplace citing intense price competition carriers.
This is strong, incontrovertible evidence, he added.
The FCC approved the report by a 3-2 vote.
A decade ago there were seven major U.S. wireless carriers and today the largest four carriers led by Verizon Communications Inc and AT&T Inc control 98.8 percent of the U.S. market, according to the FCC.
The FCC would need to approve any merger as would the Justice Department.
In 2014, the FCC and Justice Department told the carriers they would not back a merger and the companies abandoned merger talks.
Pedestrians use their smart phones as they pass a T-Mobile retail store in Manhattan, New York, U.S., September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Darren Ornitz

FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel referenced the potential looming merger.
While this report celebrates the presence of four nationwide wireless providers, lets be mindful that a transaction may soon be announced that seeks to combine two of these four, Rosenworcel said.
For my part, any transaction before us will require someone to explain how consumers will benefit, how prices will not rise, and how innovation will not dissipate in the face of so much more industry concentration.
She added: Someone will also need to explain how having fewer potential big bidders in upcoming spectrum auctions will not render our most potent distribution mechanism substantially less powerful.
FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn said the competition report takes a decidedly myopic view of the ecosystem, and instead focuses only on competition in the provision of mobile wireless services.
This is like a doctor looking at one organ and pronouncing a patient fit as a fiddle.
FCC Republican Commissioner Mike ORielly praised the report and noted intense wireless competition has led to price cuts, despite carriers investing $200 billion in networks over the last six years.
AT&T said in a statement the report shows with an array of providers, pricing plans and service offerings to choose from, theres no question that consumers are reaping the benefits of a competitive industry.
Britain is not a great place for expats to live.
The U.K. has tumbled in a ranking of top destinations for expats following the June 2016 vote for Brexit.
It now ranks 35th out of 46 countries in the annual HSBC survey.
"Few countries have seen the kind of rapid change in expat perceptions that the U.K. has experienced since 2016, probably as a result of the decision to leave the European Union," said HSBC researchers, who analyzed responses from 27,500 expats.
HSBC said expats are now much less confident in the country's political stability and economy.
The average expat earns the equivalent of $84,000 a year in the U.K.
But a sharp fall in the value of the pound after Brexit has made those salaries worth much less outside Britain.
Culture was a bright spot, however, with more than two-thirds of expats saying they enjoy immersing themselves in British life.
Seven in 10 say they are integrating well with Brits.
One of the biggest winners in this year's survey was India, which rose to its highest-ever ranking at 14th.
The vast majority of expats there -- 71% -- said they were confident about its economy, compared to the global average of 53%.
Expats in India earn some of the highest average incomes in the world at over $176,000.
Related: You can now make a restaurant reservation on Airbnb

The ranking considers various factors, including career prospects, earnings, economics and family life.
Here's the top 15:

1.
Singapore

2.
Norway

3.
New Zealand

4.
Germany

5.
Netherlands

6.
Canada

7.
Australia

8.
Sweden

9.
Austria

10.
United Arab Emirates

11.
Switzerland

12.
Czech Republic

13.
Bahrain

14.
India

15.
Oman

Related: Iran's tourism industry is booming

Singapore has been rated by expats as the best country in the world to live and work for three consecutive years.
A majority of expats living in Singapore agree that their quality of life has improved and expat parents say their children are better off as a result of their move.
Over 80% of expats say they feel safer in the city compared to their home country, and many said they like the clean and open spaces in the city.
Expats in Singapore earn nearly $118,000 per year, much higher than the global annual average of $100,000.
Bill O'Reilly is set to appear on Sean Hannity's Fox News show Tuesday evening, his first appearance on the network since he was ousted in April amid sexual harassment allegations.
Hannity said on Monday night that O'Reilly will appear on his program to talk about his new book, "Killing England," and discuss the "news of the day."
O'Reilly was fired after a report in The New York Times revealed he, Fox News and network parent company 21st Century Fox had paid millions of dollars over the years to settle claims of sexual harassment and other inappropriate behavior made against him, all of which he has denied.
The news, which came as the network was still reeling from a sexual harassment scandal that forced out former Fox News Chairman Roger Ailes, resulted in advertisers fleeing O'Reilly's show.
Fox News ultimately decided to fire O'Reilly, not even letting him say goodbye to his audience -- the ultimate TV indignity -- after he'd served for more than two decades as the face of the network's primetime lineup.
Nearly six months later, things have seemingly changed.
Hannity's Tuesday interview with O'Reilly was being promoted heavily by Fox News.
A graphic that appeared at least once on the lower right-hand corner of the screen hyped O'Reilly's return to the network.
A similar graphic on Fox News' website did the same.
While the date and time were well advertised to viewers, other things were not.
It was not clear, for instance, whether O'Reilly will be interviewed inside Fox News' Manhattan headquarters.
A representative for O'Reilly did not respond to requests for comment, and a Fox News spokesperson did not provide comment pertaining to the logistics of the interview.
A Fox News spokesperson, however, did say that O'Reilly's appearance on the network was simply part of his ongoing book tour.
The tour has taken O'Reilly to several media outlets, including NBC's "Today" show, and he is tentatively slated to appear on CNN later this year.
But the fact that Fox News executives would permit O'Reilly to return to the network's air and let him use it as a platform to sell books only months after firing him struck some observers -- including people inside the network and at least one of the women who accused him of harassment -- as peculiar.
It was not clear if Rupert Murdoch, who is currently serving as chairman of Fox News, personally approved the interview.
Neither representatives for Fox News nor 21st Century Fox responded to requests for comment on the matter.
"That's how it works at the boy's club," Wendy Walsh, who accused O'Reilly of sexual harassment, told CNN on Tuesday.
"That's how it works."
Inside Fox News, some employees also raised eyebrows.
"I question how serious Fox News considers the offenses for which he was fired if they are now giving him a platform to sell his book," a senior Fox News employee told CNN.
"Talk about mixed messages."
"This idea of not only bringing him back on our air but to be actively promoting [his book] is totally outrageous," echoed another employee.
"What's the point [of firing him] if we're going to basically be welcoming him back with open arms?"
One on-air personality who spoke with CNN referenced Fox News announcing on Tuesday that it had promoted several women as hosts.
The person said O'Reilly's appearance served as a "net negative" that clouded the otherwise positive news.
"On a day that should be about Fox celebrating female talent with Sandra Smith, Harris Faulkner and Dana Perino getting their own gigs, O'Reilly returning allows us to be talking about a period that is hopefully behind us," the person told CNN.
A Fox News spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment on employees' feelings about the interview.
Furthering the intrigue is the fact that Hannity and O'Reilly don't have the best history together.
Two people familiar with the relationship between the two men told CNN that it was well-known inside Fox News that they did not like each other.
One of the people said it was known staff should "never say anything good" about O'Reilly in front of Hannity.
Another person familiar with their relationship told CNN that Hannity even continued talking negatively about O'Reilly several months after O'Reilly had been ousted from Fox News.
Hannity all but conceded the two had not had a warm relationship while interviewing O'Reilly on his radio program last week.
Hannity seemed to chalk up their history to the competition typical of the television industry.
"We kind of were competitors and at each other's throats," Hannity told O'Reilly in the interview.
"But I will say this: Since you left the channel, you and I have started having conversations and we realize I think that in many ways that it was a mistake on both our parts to think you were isolated on an island and I was isolated on an island."
Hannity appears to feel that he and O'Reilly have both become victims of liberals looking to silence them, and have found some kinship with him over that.
The two men also seem to understand they can mutually benefit from each other.
O'Reilly needs a platform to promote his latest book, and Hannity is aiming to beat MSNBC host Rachel Maddow in the 9 p.m. ratings race.
Hannity moved back to his old 9 p.m. time slot this week, putting him up directly against Maddow.
On Monday, he beat her in both total viewers and the key 25-54 demographic.
Hannity is hoping to defeat Maddow again on Tuesday, and bringing the former cable news king onto his program is sure to boost ratings.
While O'Reilly is set to appear on Fox News Tuesday night to sell his book, it was unclear whether another former host would be welcomed back to the network to promote her book.
Gretchen Carlson, who touched off a domino effect with a sexual harassment lawsuit that ultimately led to Fox News' ouster of Ailes, is releasing her book in October.
A Fox News spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment about whether Carlson would be welcome on Fox as part of her book tour.
Coca-Cola is tripling the amount of money it's donating to disaster relief in the wake of Hurricane Maria and the earthquakes in Mexico.
The company announced Tuesday that it will give an additional $4.3 million to help with recovery.
It had already pledged $2 million to the American Red Cross for relief efforts linked to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, and had said it would match employee contributions up to $100,000.
The new pledges include $1 million to the Mexican Red Cross for immediate assistance, $1 million to the Salvation Army for provide food and shelter in the Caribbean, $2 million for longer term reconstruction in Mexico and $300,000 to support rebuilding in St. Kitts, Turks and Caicos and Barbuda.
Related: These companies have pledged money to rebuild Puerto Rico

A series of natural disasters across North America over the past month could have tested the limits of corporate generosity.
But major companies have continued to give.
Companies have already donated $224.9 million in the aftermath of Harvey and Irma, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said.
So far, firms have offered up an additional $13 million to help with Mexico and Maria, according to the chamber's list.
That number does not include the latest round of donations from Coca-Cola (KO).
Other companies are providing help in the form of services.
AT&T (T, Tech30)and T-Mobile (TMUS) are waiving cell phone charges in affected areas.
JetBlue (JBLU) is flying in emergency supplies on one of its airplanes.
The U.S. Commerce Department backed Boeing in its challenge to Bombardier, recommending an enormous tariff on sales of Bombardier's C Series jetliner, a major blow to the Canadian plane maker.
The initial ruling by the International Trade Commission, an arm of the Commerce Department, recommends a 219.63% tariff on the delivery of each airliner, according to a person briefed on the ITC's findings.
Boeing (BA), America's largest exporter and sole U.S. producer of commercial airliners, is suing Bombardier.
At issue is whether Bombardier received financial backing from the Canadian government that allowed the plane maker to stay afloat and sell to Delta for what Boeing alleges were "absurdly low prices."
"The U.S. values its relationships with Canada, but even our closest allies must play by the rules," said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross in a statement.
"The subsidization of goods by foreign governments is something that the Trump Administration takes very seriously, and we will continue to evaluate and verify the accuracy of this preliminary determination."
Tuesday's decision by the International Trade Commission is the first of two in the case.
The second is expected on as early as Oct. 5 and may add even more to Bombardier's tariff penalty.
Related: This plane may vastly improve flying in the U.S., if it doesn't first start a trade war

The dispute stems from a 2016 Delta order from the Montreal-based air and rail giant for as many as 125 C Series aircraft.
Boeing alleges government support helped its Canadian rival establish the all-new airliner at the expense of Boeing's own 737 jets.
Boeing claims that Bombardier is selling each C Series jet to Delta for $19.6 million.
That's not accurate, said Delta.
The jet's list price is nearly $80 million, but steep discounts are common.
Boeing had recommended a heavy tariff on the C Series, paid by Delta or any U.S. airline importing the aircraft in what would be considered a major blow to Bombardier and its ability to establish the new jet in the world's largest aviation market.
The preliminary decision by the trade commission for a 219.63% tariff was steeper than the 160% recommended by Boeing.
Bombardier reacted to the decision, saying: "We strongly disagree with the Commerce Department's preliminary decision.
The magnitude of the proposed duty is absurd and divorced from the reality about the financing of multi-billion dollar aircraft programs."
Boeing in a statement hailed the result, saying, "This dispute has nothing to do with limiting innovation or competition, which we welcome.
Rather, it has everything to do with maintaining a level playing field and ensuring that aerospace companies abide by trade agreements."
The dispute has drawn in the leaders of Canada and the United Kingdom and now threatens to shoot down a $5.2 billion Boeing F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter deal with the Royal Canadian Air Force if the case isn't dropped or settled.
"We won't do business with a company that's busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business," Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said earlier this month.
Bombardier's aerospace division employs 28,500 worldwide, including 4,000 in Northern Ireland where the jet's wings are manufactured.
Chrystia Freeland, Canada's Foreign Affairs Minister, said: "While this is only a preliminary stage in the investigation, and no duties can be imposed until the final investigations are completed, Canada strongly disagrees with the anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations into imports of Canadian large civil aircraft.
This is clearly aimed at eliminating Bombardier's C Series aircraft from the U.S.
market."
British Prime Minister Theresa May has asked U.S. President Donald Trump to intervene in the dispute to help protect jobs in Northern Ireland.
The Canadian government said the complaint was just as likely to threaten U.S. jobs as those in Canada and Northern Ireland.
Freeland said the C Series jet supports an estimated 23,000 jobs in the U.S, including those in Connecticut, Florida, New Jersey, Washington, New York, Ohio, Kansas, Pennsylvania and Colorado.
The jet's advanced engines are manufactured in the U.S. by Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies, which supplies many parts of the jet.
As a result, Bombardier had drawn the public support of members of Congress and elected officials and even U.S. airlines like JetBlue Airways and Spirit Airlines who wanted to expand the range of options for commercial airliners beyond Boeing and its European rival Airbus.
The steep tariff, which is far in excess of the 160% Boeing had requested, amounts to making Delta pay the roughly $5.6 billion list price for the 75 jets it has on firm order.
In the airline industry, commercial buyers do not pay list price and typically command steep discounts of 40% to 60%.
Each CS100 jet has a list price of nearly $80 million.
Bombardier also maintains that the smallest single-aisle 737 does not compete with the CS100, the roughly 110-seat Bombardier model purchased by Delta.
During the 2016 competition, Boeing offered Delta, the second largest U.S. airline, used jets from another manufacturer.
Delta, which will use the jet on short and medium range flights around the U.S., cautioned that the ITC's decision was preliminary.
"We are confident the USITC will conclude that no U.S. manufacturer is at risk because neither Boeing nor any other U.S. manufacturer makes any 100-110 seat aircraft that competes with the CS100."
Apple, Alphabet and Samsung's future forays into medical software could get speedier FDA approval thanks to a new program announced Tuesday.
The FDA is launching a pilot program that will give vetted tech companies pre-approval to work on medical software.
The government agency oversees drug and medical device approval, in addition to food and health products.
It has already pre-certified nine companies, including Apple, Samsung, Alphabet's Verily, FitBit, Roche and Johnson & Johnson.
The program is a slight departure from how the process usually works.
It is focused on approving companies themselves instead of each individual product.
Getting FDA approval for individual products can be a lengthy and expensive process.
This could allow companies more leeway to innovate quickly.
Related: Apple's newest gadgets include iPhone X and Apple Watch Series 3

"Our method for regulating digital health products must recognize the unique and iterative characteristics of these products," said Scott Gottlieb, the FDA commissioner, in a statement.
"We need to modernize our regulatory framework so that it matches the kind of innovation we're being asked to evaluate."
The FDA will use to the program to determine if its possible for companies to submit less information to the agency when seeking pre-market approval for a product, or if some products can skip the step all together.
Apple has shown interest in the medical space for years, most recently with Heart Study, a new trial that uses the Apple Watch to detect atrial fibrillation.
The company said it was working with the FDA on the program.
Verily, Alphabet's life sciences division, is working on biomedical medicine, smart contact lenses and glucose monitoring products.
More smartphones and wearables are cramming in sensors that can handle medical monitoring, like heart rate, body temperature and activity levels.
It makes sense that the companies would consider making the leap from wellness to medical applications.
Apple had no comment on the announcement.
New descriptions of the infamous Russian-bought politically themed ads on Facebook shared with CNN suggest at least some of the ads were working at cross purposes on a range of issues.
Sources with knowledge of the ads tell CNN that they ranged from posts promoting gun rights and the Second Amendment to posts warning about what they said was the threat undocumented immigrants posed to American democracy.
Some ads promoted Black Lives Matter while others decried it, as the Washington Post reported Monday.
The apparent goal of the ads, the sources who spoke with CNN said, was to amplify political discord and fuel an atmosphere of incivility and chaos around the 2016 presidential campaign, not necessarily to promote one candidate or cause over another.
Related: Facebook could still be weaponized again for the 2018 midterms

Senate Intelligence Committee chair Richard Burr, a Republican, told reporters Tuesday that the use of Facebook and other social media platforms by Russian-linked accounts appears to be about creating chaos on both ends of the political spectrum, not necessarily collusion between the Trump camp and Russian officials.
"Listen, I've said I don't think this is about collusion.
Facebook is a company that most advertisers rely on Facebook's information to determine what the target is," Burr told reporters.
"I think clearly there was an effort to bring some chaos to groups on the right and the left, so there's nothing that, at least preliminary, would lean toward one candidate versus the other.
I think there was equal money sent trying to create some type of chaos on both sides of the political or ideological spectrum.
We'll find more as we go in."
Burr and Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the panel, said they had not seen the Facebook ads sold to Russian-linked accounts as of Tuesday afternoon.
Burr also said he doesn't want the committee to be the one to make the ads public when they are handed over by Facebook.
"We don't routinely release any information that's shared with the committee and I'd like to keep the committee in that mode," he said.
Facebook's chief security officer, Alex Stamos, said in a statement earlier this month that "the vast majority of ads run by these accounts didn't specifically reference the U.S. presidential election, voting or a particular candidate."
"Rather," Stamos said, "the ads and accounts appeared to focus on amplifying divisive social and political messages across the ideological spectrum -- touching on topics from LGBT matters to race issues to immigration to gun rights."
Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said this week that the aim of the ad-buyers "was to sow chaos."
"In many cases, it was more about voter suppression rather than increasing turnout," he told reporters.
Facebook has already handed over copies of the ads and information about the relevant accounts to Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is conducting an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
It is expected to give the same information to the Senate and House Intelligence Committee later this week.
Still, for Congress as for the public, many questions remain.
Facebook has not yet revealed where or how the ads were targeted -- that is, what kinds of people were shown the ads, or where they may have lived.
To date, the company has only said that one quarter of the ads were geographically targeted, but they have not disclosed specific locations or said anything about targeting based on demographics or interest groups.
Related: Facebook is planning big changes to political ads on its site.
Are they enough?
The targeting issue is especially important because, if it appears that the targeting was particularly sophisticated, there may be questions raised about how the Russians knew where to direct their ads, and information about the targeting could help investigators determine whether or not there was any collusion between these ad buyers and the Trump campaign.
The Senate Intelligence Committee will also hear from Twitter on Thursday about how foreign nationals may have used its ad service to influence the 2016 election.
Twitter has declined to shed any light so far on what information it plans to give to Congress.
Meanwhile, the disclosure that Russians used social media advertising to meddle in American politics has brought new scrutiny on the big tech companies.
That scrutiny has forced tech leaders like Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to change their public stances regarding social media's role in the 2016 election.
In the days after the election, Zuckerberg said it was "crazy" to think that fake news on Facebook played a major role in the outcome of the election.
As the Washington Post reported Sunday, Zuckerberg even downplayed the issue after President Obama personally appealed to him last November to take the threat of fake news seriously.
Now, Zuckerberg is promising a number of changes to the platform to prevent foreign nationals from influencing future elections.
Last week, he announced that future political ads will include a disclosure about which Facebook page posted them, and visitors to that page will be able to see all the ads a group has run on the platform.
Zuckerberg said Facebook is also strengthening its own review process for political ads, which are often bought through Facebook's automated system without any interaction between buyers and Facebook employees.
The company is adding 250 more people to its election integrity team, expanding its partnerships with official election commissions around the world to flag risks, and looking into ways of sharing similar information about bad actors with other tech companies.
It is also looking into expanding its anti-bullying system to political harassment.
Puerto Rico is battling a massive economic and humanitarian crisis in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria.
It's not clear yet how much it will cost to rebuild.
One conservative estimate puts total damage at $30 billion -- nearly a third the size of the island's entire economy.
Then there's Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
Those storms will cost an estimated $150 billion and have already prompted billions in federal aid, insurance payouts and private donations.
So what does that leave for Puerto Rico?
Related: Hurricane Maria is a nightmare for Puerto Rico's economy

Insurance coverage

When it comes to covering damages, insurers are the first line of defense.
"People are expected to fund their own recoveries" with insurance payouts, said James Kendra, director of the Disaster Research Center at the University of Delaware.
"FEMA steps in afterward, with supplementary assistance."
AIR Worldwide, which calculates the economic cost of natural disasters, predicts that Caribbean losses covered by insurance will be between $40 billion and $85 billion.
More than 85% of those losses are in Puerto Rico.
But only 50% of homes in Puerto Rico have insurance that covers wind damage, AIR Worldwide said.
Flood damage typically isn't part of a standard homeowners insurance policy at all.
Homeowners can apply for coverage from the National Flood Insurance Program -- but fewer than 1% of Puerto Rican households have done so, according to FEMA.
That means private and public insurance money won't be enough to cover all expenses.
Additionally, some people may decide not to pay for repairs at all  either because they have costly insurance deductibles or because they don't think it's worth it.
Government aid

The federal government can also offer help for localities, along with grants and loans to individuals.
Congress approved around $15 billion for hurricane relief after Harvey hit, and some of that will be used for Puerto Rico.
The Trump administration is expected to send another disaster spending request to Congress in mid-October.
But it's not yet clear how much more money Puerto Rico needs, and it can take years to pay out all of the relief funds needed to rebuild.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency received about half of the $15 billion.
FEMA funds go directly to the areas hit by a disaster.
For example, local governments that spend money giving their citizens food, water and shelter can be fully reimbursed for those costs in the first month after a disaster is declared.
The agency also helps people who lose their homes as part of a declared disaster, as well as those who either don't have any insurance or who have only partial coverage.
It can also provide temporary financial relief, which can be used to fund necessities like temporary housing.
FEMA can approve up to $33,300 for people who have lost everything, but most don't get nearly as much.
In reality the amount paid out is usually closer to $6,000, said Elizabeth Zimmerman, who was the associate administrator for the agency's office of response and recovery during the Obama administration.
It can take time for inspectors to fully assess the damage.
But Zimmerman said FEMA has the ability to distribute some money immediately as electronic transfers, to help with gas, food or other emergency needs.
As of Monday morning, FEMA had $5.03 billion left in its fund until the end of the month.
When the new fiscal year begins October 1, it will get another $6.7 billion, and the agency can request more down the road.
The Small Business Administration, which received some of the $15 billion, has paid out $511.6 million in home and business disaster loans for damage from Harvey and Irma.
No loans have been approved yet for Hurricane Maria.
Corporate donations

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce this week released an initial tally of donations related to Maria relief that totaled $8.1 million.
And corporate donations are still coming in.
For example, Starbucks (SBUX), Verizon (VZ, Tech30) and Google (GOOG) have pledged a collective $1.75 million for Puerto Rico.
The value of other support is difficult to total.
AT&T (T, Tech30) and T-Mobile (TMUS) are waiving cellphone charges in affected areas, while several major airlines are flying in emergency supplies.
Companies have already given $224.9 million to cover damage from Harvey and Irma, according to the Chamber of Commerce.
Some of those companies say their donations will also help areas hit by Maria.
Related: Puerto Rico has been in recession for 11 years and now it has no electricity

Celebs pitch in

Entertainers, athletes and other celebs are pitching in with their own recovery efforts.
Singer and actress Jennifer Lopez, whose parents are from Puerto Rico, announced Sunday that she would donate $1 million from the proceeds of her Las Vegas show to aid efforts.
Lopez also said Sunday that two planes filled with supplies would be on their way to the island.
At the time, they were waiting for air clearance.
Hamilton creator and star Lin-Manuel Miranda, who is also of Puerto Rican descent, is trying to help too.
Thank you all for making noise on behalf of our island.
Making more noise/raising more :moneybag: for :flag-pr: as we speak

(that you can dance to)#wait4it  Lin-Manuel Miranda (@Lin_Manuel) September 26, 2017

Miranda has for days been asking his Twitter followers to donate to the Hispanic Federation, a nonprofit that supports Latinos.
"Thanks to your generosity, first responders from NY are on a chartered plane" to Puerto Rico, he tweeted Saturday.
"Don't stop now."
Five former U.S. presidents -- Barack Obama, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, George H.W.
Bush and Jimmy Carter -- are also teaming up to raise money for hurricane relief.
Their fundraising organization, One America Appeal, has been soliciting donations for victims of Harvey and Irma.
It recently announced that it would expand its efforts to aid recovery in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
If brevity is the soul of wit, Twitter is about to get a lot less clever.
For the first time in history, Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) is changing its character limit.
The service announced on Tuesday it is doubling its character count for tweets -- from 140 characters to 280 characters -- for some of its users.
The test group will include those who tweet in certain languages, including English, Spanish and Portuguese.
Twitter cofounder and CEO Jack Dorsey has hinted at expanding the character limit before.
Earlier this year, Twitter removed user handles -- a person's Twitter name preceded by the @ sign -- from replies to tweets, instead linking them in text above the tweet.
Twitter says it hopes people will embrace the change.
But considering the move strays from its core design, it's likely to cause some backlash.
The decision to limit the tweet character to 140 stems from text messaging.
SMS messages are capped at 160 characters before they're split in two texts.
Dorsey has said founders wanted tweets to be able to fit in a text message: 140 characters for the tweet, and 20 characters for the username.
Related: Trump blocking Twitter critics raises First Amendment concerns

Users may also argue Twitter should focus less on the length of the tweets, and more on the content.
Twitter continues to be rife with harassment and abuse, despite the company's efforts to better police it.
Many have called on Twitter to address the U.S. president's use of the platform.
On Monday, North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said President Trump declared war on his country when he tweeted that North Korea "won't be around much longer."
Twitter said Monday afternoon that it holds all accounts to the same rules, and weighs tweets' newsworthiness and public interest when considering whether accounts violate its rules.
The company noted in a blog post that cramming thoughts to fit Twitter character counts is more of a hassle for some users in specific language.
Tweets sent in Japanese use 140 characters just 0.4% of the time, while English-language tweets hit 140 characters 9% of the time.
Twitter explained that in Japanese, Korean and Chinese, people can convey twice as much information as languages like English and Spanish.
"Our research shows us that the character limit is a major cause of frustration for people Tweeting in English, but it is not for those Tweeting in Japanese," the post reads.
Only a "small group of people" will get the new limit before Twitter launches it to everyone.
But all users will be able to see longer tweets.
The Washington Post is marking a milestone in its transition from being a local print newspaper to a national news website.
"Earlier this year, we crossed the 1 million mark for paid digital-only subscribers," the Post's publisher Fred Ryan revealed in an internal memo on Tuesday.
The news stood out to staffers because the Post had not disclosed the data before.
The Post, like several other national papers, has been focused on signing up as many paying subscribers as possible.
"Our growth has been exceptionally strong, with digital-only subscriptions more than doubling since January 1 this year," Ryan wrote.
"Digital-only subscriptions have more than tripled since last year at this time."
Ryan didn't provide any other benchmarks, but the 1 million figure puts the Post just a bit behind The Wall Street Journal, one of its primary rivals.
According to The Journal's most recent count, through June, it has 1.27 million digital subscribers.
Both papers are eclipsed by The New York Times, which has far more digital subscribers than any other American news outlet.
Through June, the Times had 2.3 million paid digital subscribers.
The news organizations like to point out that lots of other subscribers pay for the print edition and get digital access on top of that.
But digital-only subscriptions are the primary area of growth.
Overwhelming interest in the Trump presidency has spurred a high number of digital subscriptions to the outlets.
But the Times, the Journal and the Post have benefited a lot more than regional and local papers have.
The Los Angeles Times, for instance, recently revealed that it now has 105,000 digital subscribers.
The Boston Globe is nearing the 100,000 mark.
According to Ryan's memo, the Post has seen "especially impressive growth in our digital subscription base among millennials as they have grown accustomed to paying for products and services they view as valuable and even essential."
He said Tuesday that the figures "validate our strategy of growing the size of our news and engineering teams and expanding our product offerings."
Bill Gates now uses an Android phone.
The billionaire Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) founder told Fox News Sunday's Chris Wallace he recently switched to a mobile device that runs Google's Android software.
The company officially killed off its Windows Phone line and software in July, due largely to dwindling consumer interest and a lackluster app store.
In the first quarter of 2017, Windows Phones' market share was 0.1%, according to a May report from market intelligence firm IDC.
Now, Gates has presumably put his own device aside in favor of another.
While Gates didn't say which phone he uses, he said it has "a lot of Microsoft software."
"So, no iPhone?"
Wallace asked.
"No iPhone," Gates said.
Related: Bill Gates: Sorry about Control-Alt-Delete

Apple and Microsoft have been at odds for years.
Its fierce competition goes back decades and was often showcased in TV ads, such as Apple's famous "I'm a Mac" and "I'm a PC" commercials.
More recently, Microsoft has gone after Apple customers with products like the Surface Studio intended for designers.
Gates said it's "great" Apple (AAPL, Tech30) is continuing to do good work, but noted he still uses all Windows-based PCs.
In the interview, he praised late Apple founder Steve Jobs, despite their famous rivalry.
"The relationship I had with Steve had every aspect you can imagine.
Particularly in the last few years, our friendship -- which had always been there -- was greatly strengthened as he was dealing with cancer," Gates told Wallace.
"He and I had a lot in common ... Steve was a genius.
Absolutely amazing."
Related: How these young founders define success

He also credited Jobs with helping to spur competition in the sector.
"The competition in the software and IT space that Steve helped foster, it's phenomenal.
And Microsoft's a big part of that.
It's been a miraculous industry that he and I got to work in," Gates said.
Separately, Microsoft on Tuesday announced Microsoft Office 2019 will be available in the second half of next year.
The big update will have more IT features and server upgrades to improve usability, voice and security, according to the tech giant.
Republicans may try to eliminate a tax deduction that helps many in the middle class.
The state and local tax deduction is one of many tax breaks under consideration in Washington as a way to offset the cost of tax cuts that the GOP are proposing.
The tax break lets tax filers who itemize deductions write off their property taxes as well as their state and local income taxes or general sales taxes.
Republican tax negotiators stress how much they want tax reform to help the middle class.
And they note that the highest income households tend to benefit most from the state and local deduction.
That's true.
But an updated study released this week finds that millions in the middle class also could be affected by the repeal of the tax break.
The study, conducted by the Government Finance Officers Association using IRS data, found that nearly 40% of tax filers making between $50,000 and $75,000 in 2015 claimed the deduction.
That is nearly 7.6 million households.
Of those making between $75,000 and $100,000 (6.9 million households), 53% claimed it, as did 76% of those making between $100,000 and $200,000 (13.9 million households).
Related: Who pays if Congress kills the state and local tax deduction

Some will argue that a six-figure income up to $200,000 should never be considered "middle class."
But the truth is a lot depends on how large your household is and where you're located.
A $150,000 income for a family of five in a high-cost, high-tax city, for instance, would most likely be considered middle class for that area.
Conversely, a single person bringing in $75,000 in a low-cost, low-tax city might be considered very well off relatively speaking.
The data from the state financial officials doesn't indicate household size in its income breakdown.
But an analysis of 2014 IRS data by the Tax Policy Center found that of all itemizers making between $50,000 and $75,000, nearly half were single, while only about a third were single in the $75,000 to $100,000 category, and just 16% were never married in the $100,000 to $200,000 group.
Tax filers in all states would be affected by repeal, including Republican states with no income tax, the report said.
For instance, a family of three in Conroe, Texas, making $100,000 saves $2,450 on their federal tax bill because of the state and local tax deduction.
That said, it's impossible to know if that family's total tax bill would go up or stay the same because tax reform would involve other changes to the tax code.
For instance, Republicans have said they want to double the standard deduction.
That could lessen the bite for them of losing the state and local deduction.
But the report by the state and local finance officers notes that that might still not be enough to offer them actual tax relief: Even if the standard deduction was tripled, "a significant portion of taxpayers would still end up with tax increases."
The group, along with several others representing state and local finance and budget officials, are part of an umbrella group lobbying against repeal.
Advocates for preserving the tax break argue that it avoids double taxation on the same income and it helps provide a stronger revenue base for local governments to provide essential services.
But those arguing for repeal say the deduction forces people in low-tax states to subsidize people living in high-tax states.
Move over, fans and vacuums.
Dyson is building electric cars.
The company's founder, James Dyson, made the announcement in an email to employees on Tuesday.
"I wanted you to hear it directly from me: Dyson has begun work on a battery electric vehicle," he said.
The British company plans to launch the car by 2020, and has committed to investing 2 billion, or about $2.35 billion, in the project.
More than 400 people, including Dyson engineers and others, are already working on bringing Dyson electric vehicles to life.
The inventor said a Dyson team first started working on the project in 1990.
"By 1993 we had developed several working prototypes," he said.
"To our chagrin, nobody at the time was interested in employing our diesel exhaust capture system and we stopped the project."
Related: This is the future of driving

Dyson said the company committed to developing new battery technologies a few years ago.
"It has remained my ambition to find a solution to the global problem of air pollution."
he said.
James Dyson just announced to @Dyson employees that we've begun work on a battery electric vehicle, due to launch in 2020. pic.twitter.com/yUZNvIsYIi  Dyson (@Dyson) September 26, 2017

Olya Leptoukh, Communications Manager at Dyson, said the company has invested billions of pounds into motors, batteries and other core technologies since 1990.
"We are now at a state and scale which means we can put that to good use," she said.
Related: These countries want to ditch gas and diesel cars

Leptoukh said Dyson will continue to develop its current technologies.
That includes lighting, hand dryers, fans and its famous line of vacuums.
Dyson didn't offer details on what type of vehicles it plans to build, or where they will be available.
The appliances maker is joining a crowded market.
It'll have to compete against the Nissan Leaf, the best-selling electric car in the world, the new Chevy Bolt and Tesla's (TSLA) new Model 3, among others.
Mercedes (DMLRY), BMW (BMWYY), Honda (HMC) and Volkswagen (VLKAF) all showed electric concept cars at this year's Frankfurt Motor Show.
The U.K. plans to block sales of new gasoline and diesel cars starting in 2040.
Uber could soon be leaving Quebec.
The ride-hailing giant on Tuesday said it will exit the Canadian province on Saturday, October 14, if the Ministry of Transportation implements proposed new regulations.
Uber has been operating in Quebec during the past year under a government pilot project.
Last week, Quebec renewed the project for another year, but with stricter requirements.
For example, the province wants drivers to complete 35 hours of training -- the same requirement its taxi drivers must undergo in Montreal.
An Uber spokesman in Quebec told CNN Tech the new driver training requirement is not feasible for many of its drivers who only work for the company part time and have other jobs.
As a result, there could be fewer drivers available in the region and longer wait times for customers.
Related: Uber CEO apologizes to Londoners: 'We got things wrong'

"The proposed rules would impose onerous training obligations developed for a different industry on ridesharing drivers, without taking into account the benefits that come with new technology such as in-app safety features, GPS tracking of every trip, a two-way rating system, and 24/7 support," Jean-Nicolas Guillemette, general manager of Uber Quebec, said in a statement.
However, Uber said it's willing to work with the government on a solution.
But if no compromise is met, Uber is prepared to pull out of Montreal and Quebec City.
Uber has about 50 employees in the Quebec province and 10,000 drivers have worked for the company there under the pilot program.
Quebec's transport ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The announcement came less than a week after London's transport authority said it wouldn't renew Uber's license, calling the service not "fit and proper" to operate in the city.
It cited Uber's approach to reporting serious criminal offenses and how the company used software to dodge regulators and law enforcement.
The sudden retirement of Equifax CEO Richard Smith isn't enough to squelch the fury of some Senate Democrats over a hack that compromised the personal information of as many as 143 million Americans.
"I think Equifax is a travesty," said Democratic Senator Mark Warner from Virginia during a Senate Banking Committee hearing Tuesday.
"The resignation of the CEO is by no means enough."
Hours before the panel's hearing in Washington, Smith announced his immediate retirement.
He steps down three weeks after the credit reporting bureau disclosed the massive data breach, which left customers feeling helpless and vulnerable to identify theft.
The company's botched response made things even worse.
During the hearing, Warner questioned whether the company "even has the right to continue providing these services with the level of sloppiness and lack of attention to cybersecurity."
Related: Equifax CEO Richard Smith is out after stunning data breach

Equifax (EFX) is one three major companies that track the credit histories of Americans and sell the information to banks, credit card companies and other clients.
Smith is expected to testify before the Senate Banking Committee next Wednesday.
A spokeswoman for the committee said the hearing schedule has not changed.
"I hope he still comes before the committee," Sen. Jon Tester of Montana said at the hearing.
"It's less about spending time with his family, and more about not spending time with us."
On Tuesday, Democrats repeatedly pressed Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Jay Clayton on whether he would investigate Equifax and take enforcement action if necessary.
Clayton, a Trump nominee who was confirmed in May, would neither confirm or deny any plans by the SEC to investigate the matter.
Equifax learned of the hack in late July, but only disclosed it on September 7.
At first, Equifax couldn't say whose data had been breached and it initially asked customers to give up their right to sue the company in exchange for credit monitoring services.
Before the public learned about the hack, three Equifax executives sold large chunks of stock.
The company has said those executives did not know about the breach.
Clayton said he wouldn't comment on whether he thought Equifax should have disclosed the breach sooner.
Related: Equifax turned its hack into a public relations nightmare

He said in general companies should be doing a better job of "promptly" disclosing when "a breach is a material to investors."
Still, Tester kept pushing Clayton for an answer.
"The six-week delay seems bizarre to me, especially if in fact these folks dumped stock.
Why would they wait six weeks?"
"They're good questions, These are valid questions.
Their questions that Americans should have," said Clayton.
Tester pressed Clayton further on whether he would use his powers to address wrongdoing by any current or former executive of Equifax by possibly slapping fines on executives or other penalties.
To which, Clayton replied: "That's my job."
-- CNNMoney's Matt Egan contributed to this story.
The Trump administration escalated pressure on Kim Jong Un to disband his nuclear weapons program by imposing sanctions on eight North Korean banks and more than two dozen North Korean nationals working in countries like China, Russia and Libya.
"We are targeting North Korean banks and financial facilitators acting as representatives for North Korean banks across the globe," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement Tuesday.
"This further advances our strategy to fully isolate North Korea in order to achieve our broader objectives of a peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula."
The latest measure of economic warfare comes just days after President Trump signed an executive order giving Mnuchin greater power to slap a range of sanctions aimed at curbing North Korea's nuclear efforts.
The North Korean regime is believed to use a complex network of front companies to do business in China and other countries in order to dodge sanctions.
Related: Trump gives 'final warning' on North Korea trade

Trump's latest orders put the onus on banks and other firms to find out whether their clients have any dealings with North Korea.
Last week's executive order will penalize any company or person doing business with North Korea by either cutting off their access to the U.S. financial system or freezing their assets -- or potentially both.
On Tuesday, the administration designated eight North Korean banks, including Agricultural Development Bank, Cheil Credit Bank and International Industrial Bank.
The administration also took the additional step of designating 26 people linked to North Korea's financial network.
The Treasury Department said they are North Koreans acting as representatives of North Korean banks in China, Russia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates.
The North Korean regime is believed to use a complex network of front companies to do business in China and other countries in order to dodge sanctions.
Related: Will latest sanctions make Kim Jong Un sweat

Trump has been pushing China to use its deep economic ties with North Korea to pressure the country's young leader to back down from developing nuclear weapons.
China is estimated to account for roughly 90% of North Korea's foreign trade, with money and goods flowing back and forth across a land border that runs for 880 miles.
Even though China has supported a series of tough U.N. resolutions targeting North Korea's economy, many experts are skeptical that Chinese officials and companies are fully complying with the sanctions.
And it's uncertain how Chinese banks will respond to the latest round of sanctions by both the U.N. and the U.S.
Earlier this month, China ordered its financial institutions to take a number of steps to comply with U.N. resolutions, including halting business with sanctioned individuals and companies.
Employees at some major Chinese banks told CNNMoney that they were no longer opening new accounts for any North Koreans.
--CNNMoney's Jethro Mullen contributed to this story.
Microsoft's next big update for Office is coming soon.
The company announced on Tuesday that Microsoft Office 2019 will be available in the second half of 2018.
While Microsoft's cloud-based Office suite, Office 365, has been steadily adding subscribers, not everyone wants to make the leap.
The 2019 suite is for people who don't want their apps and services in the cloud.
It will include the standard apps like Word, Excel, PowerPoint and Outlook, and server versions of Microsoft Exchange, SharePoint and Skype for Business.
Related: Microsoft brings back developer behind Word and Excel

Office 2019 will include more IT features and server upgrades to improve usability, voice and security, the company said at its Microsoft Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida.
Pricing has not yet been announced.
Excel users will notice updated formulas and charts, and PowerPoint will get new animation features.
The apps will also come with better inking capabilities for mobile devices -- such as pressure sensitivity and tilt effects.
Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) said previews of its new products will start shipping in the middle of next year.
Microsoft is hyping the cloud this week, but the company says the standalone suite will be valuable for businesses who want to keep apps and servers on-site.
The last major update to the suite was Microsoft Office 2016, which came out in 2015.
It's an interesting time to launch a yogurt-making machine.
Yomee, a new countertop kitchen gadget, makes yogurt in six hours from milk and a block of powdered cultures.
The product, priced at $149, debuted on Kickstarter on Tuesday.
The Yomee looks like a small blender.
You fill the container with any kind of milk, even almond or soy, and push a Yomee pod into the top of the machine.
Each pod is filled with what resembles a stub of chalk and comes in Greek, regular and stirred (also known as Swiss) varieties.
It costs $0.99 each and produces two servings.
That's less than what you'll likely pay at the supermarket.
The launch, more than a year in the making, comes barely a month after the epic fall of Juicero, the $400 connected juicer.
Both are hardware startups selling a healthier way to make a common food item easily found in stores.
Juicero and Yomee come with accompanying apps and require you to buy a custom ingredient to work, similar to Keurig coffee machines.
Juicero's individual juice bags ran between $7 and $10 -- the juicer itself originally cost $700 and was later lowered to $400.
Before the industry realized you could just squeeze the bags with your hands, Juicero raised an incredible $120 million from big name Silicon Valley investors.
While Lecker Labs -- maker of Yomee -- hasn't quite neared that amount, it's raised $350,000 dollars so far, primarily from angel Investors Michael Berro, SOSV and Girish Mithran.
"We are more traditional than [Juicero]," said founder and CEO Ashok Jaiswal.
"We're going the Kickstarter route.
Crowdfunding allows you to validate your idea before you blow up millions of dollars."
When he was a kid up in Delhi, India, Jaiswal's mother made yogurt from scratch.
Years later, while living Hong Kong, he was inspired to make his own for his daughter.
But making it was harder than his mom led him to believe.
Jaiswal said store-bought yogurt, filled with sugar and preservatives, has fewer active cultures -- and tastes different when not fresh.
Even with existing yogurt machines, you typically have to heat the milk separately first.
Five protoytpes later, Jaiswal has a machine and the ingredients he thinks does it all.
Related: Startup behind ridiculed $400 juicer shuts down

Each Yomee pod contains a combination of rice powder, yogurt culture and a binding agent.
Jaiswal says the cultures can be stored at room temperature for up to six months.
A copper probe, which dips into the milk, controls the temperature and does all the work.
After six hours of heating, cooling and boiling off water, the Yomee had made two servings of yogurt.
You can add honey and sugar to taste, or keep it tart.
The company plans to add flavored pods in the future.
The app includes recipes and keeps track of the yogurt making process, how much yogurt you've consumed and your pod orders.
Jaiswal and Lecker Labs co-founder Tu-Hien Le are still planning out the next steps.
Currently part of the Food X accelerator in New York, the startup wants to raise $28,000 on Kickstarter and possibly another round of funding.
Eventually, it intends to sell Yomee on Amazon and hit retail stores by the end of 2018.
But one thing Jaiswal is not too worried is about: becoming another Juicero.
"How do you get $120 million and burn it all?"
he said.
"I don't know."
The NFL and Facebook have entered into a huge partnership that will bring official game highlights to the social media network.
The league and Facebook announced a multiyear deal on Tuesday that includes NFL recaps and official highlights from all 256 regular season games as well as playoffs and the Super Bowl.
The deal does not include live game coverage.
The move provides Facebook with content from one of the most popular sports leagues in the world, while at the same time giving the NFL the chance to expand its reach globally by seizing on Facebook's massive user base.
The NFL's media division, NFL Media, will also distribute uniquely packaged content from NFL Films and other NFL productions to the site.
"We have millions of fans on Facebook, and they continue to demonstrate an incredible appetite for NFL content," Hans Schroeder, chief operating officer of NFL Media, said in a statement.
"We're excited to bring a compelling set of highlights and shows from the NFL and our Clubs to our fans on Facebook."
Dan Reed, Facebook's head of global sports partnerships, added that "These full game recaps and shows will deliver comprehensive coverage while enabling the active NFL fan communities on Facebook to watch and debate the top storylines from each week."
For Walmart, Facebook isn't a distraction from work.
It's a way to make employees communicate better.
The world's largest employer announced on Tuesday it has signed up for Facebook Workplace, the version of the social network that's optimized for businesses.
Workplace launched in October 2016, connecting colleagues and allowing them to message each other, share images and broadcast live videos.
Like Facebook's flagship service, it has a Newsfeed of updates.
But there's no friending of anyone -- and what's in your feed depends on who you work for.
Walmart, in an attempt to transform itself into more of a digital company, began experimenting with Workplace this summer.
A Walmart spokesman said the platform is appealing because its employees are already so familiar with Facebook's products.
Little training is required.
The company said it will also use Workplace to distribute company news and broadcast town halls.
Some Walmart employees have already used Workplace to coordinate emergency efforts during the hurricanes that have struck Texas and Florida.
Walmart's emergency operations center used Workplace to exchange updates and photos with associates in the field, supplementing its existing communication tools.
Meanwhile, Sam's Club employees have used Workplace to share information about store product displays.
Related: Facebook wants to invade your office

Walmart plans to roll out Workplace in phases and hasn't determined yet how many of its 2.2 million employees will use the service.
Facebook said that more than 14,000 companies are using Workplace today.
At Starbucks, 80% of its store managers use Workplace on a weekly basis.
Meanwhile, Norweigan retailer REMA uses the platform to make employees immediately aware of product recalls.
Workplace costs from $1 - 3 per user, depending on how many employees a company signs up.
There's also a free version with limited features.
Workplace is Facebook's first major push into enterprise software, which competes with services from Slack, Microsoft and others.
Russia says it will ban Facebook in 2018 if the social network fails to comply with local data storage laws.
Alexander Zharov, head of communications regulator Roskomnadzor, was quoted by official state media outlets on Tuesday as saying "the law is obligatory for all."
"In all cases we will make sure the law is complied with, or the company will stop working in the Russian Federation," he said.
"There are no exceptions here."
Russia's law on personal data storage came into effect in September 2015.
It requires companies that collect the personal data of citizens to store the information on Russian soil.
Zharov said his agency has not been in contact with Facebook (FB, Tech30), but added that the company needs to comply with the law soon.
"In 2018, we will think about it, and maybe we will check," he said.
Related: How Facebook sees the Russian ad scandal

Zharov told state media that Roskomnadzor had received a letter from Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) saying it would comply with the data storage law starting in 2018.
Facebook and Twitter both declined to comment.
LinkedIn, which was acquired by Microsoft (MSFT, Tech30) in 2016, has already run afoul of the law.
It was banned by Roskomnadzor in November 2016.
Related: China is messing with WhatsApp

Roskomnadzor did not respond to requests for comment on Tuesday.
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Facebook is a commercial enterprise earning money in Russia, and therefore it must comply with the law.
A growing number of everyday entrepreneurs are taking their hobbies and turning them into an extra source of income in a practice that has become known as the side hustle.
What I am talking about is creating an income by generating a project without quitting your day job," Chris Guillebeau, author of "Side Hustle: From Idea to Income in 27 Days" told ABC News.
Guillebeau adds that the side hustle is different from taking on a typical second job in that the idea is to turn your passions into a source of income.
The new trend, partly fueled by the internet, is also bringing in big bucks for some.
"My side hustle is running hiking tours in the city of San Francisco," Alexandra Kennin told ABC News.
"I'm earning about $50,000 a year just from the side hustle."
Alicia Ostarello and Angie Sommer said that their side hustle is to write wedding vows and speeches for others through their business "Vow Muse."
When not writing vows, Ostarello works as a copywriter for a tech firm and Sommer as a structural engineer.
The pair said they each earn about gross $15,000 a year from their side hustles.
ABC News

Tech giant Airbnb, known for its room-rental services, is also helping promote side hustles, after recently adding an "experiences" option in 40 different cities where people can sign up to sell walking tours, catered meals, painting classes or anything else you may have to offer.
Kennin said she does her side hustle in part to stay balanced, as her day job as a marketing manager keeps her mostly indoors and tied to her desk.
"I had sat at a desk for 10, 12 years in corporate environments and I realized I had moved all the way to San Francisco from Philadelphia and I didn't know the city that well," Kennin said.
Sommer told ABC News that the key to succeeding at a side hustle is that you have to be passionate about the extra work.
"You have to like it," Sommer said.
"That's the hard part.
You're tired, you have other things going and you still have to, like, have the energy and have the desire to do something else."
Guillbeau recommends taking it slowly at first, "I am telling people to look at what they have, the skills they have, invest a small amount of time and let's see how that goes."
Kenning, however, said she just encourages people to get started however they can.
"My advice for people who want to start a side hustle is just to get out there and do it," she told ABC News.
U.S. senators from both parties on Tuesday grilled the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission  the agency responsible for policing Wall Street  on its handling of a 2016 data breach that was disclosed only last week.
The hack breached the SEC's system for handling corporate filings intended for investors, known as EDGAR.
That has raised concerns that the hackers may have gained advance looks at filings and engaged in insider trading.
The SEC's disclosure also followed a much larger breach at credit reporting firm Equifax that exposed sensitive personal information belonging to 143 million Americans.
Lawmakers also blasted Equifax executives for their delay in disclosing the hack, even as some executives sold shares in the company.
Equifax's CEO stepped down Tuesday.
"I was disturbed to learn that the SEC suffered a cyber-breach of its EDGAR system in 2016, but did not notify the public, or even all of its commissioners, until it was discovered during your recent review," Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, R-Idaho.
SEC Chairman Jay Clayton told the committee that the incident "concerns me deeply" and added that he has ordered an investigation by the agency's inspector general.
On Monday the SEC said it had created a new cyber unit that will target market manipulation, hacking and dark-web operatives.
Clayton said he became aware of the attack in August, months after becoming chairman in May.
But he couldn't say when the hack occurred or when an investigation into the breach would be completed.
He also said he couldn't guarantee "that this was the only breach that we had."
Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, acknowledged that the breach occurred before Clayton took office.
But he slammed the chairman for not revealing it more quickly.
"When we learn a year after the fact that the SEC had its own breach and that it likely led to illegal stock trades, it raises questions about why the SEC seems to have swept this under the rug," Brown said.
"Of course this breach took place under your predecessor, but the disclosure, or lack thereof, is all yours."
Brown and other senators also expressed outrage about how Equifax handled its breach, which it didn't disclose until six weeks after discovering it.
Three Equifax executives sold shares worth a combined $1.8 million before the company revealed it had been hacked.
Equifax says the executives were unaware of the breach prior to the stock sales.
Clayton refused to comment when asked if executives at Equifax engaged in insider trading when they sold their shares.
He did not confirm or deny that the SEC was investigating the issue.
However, he opened the door to potentially forcing the executives to return the proceeds of the stock sales, if the company's six-week delay in disclosing the breach is found to be improper.
Equifax's stock is down more than 26 percent since the company disclosed the hack after the close of trading on Wall Street on Sept. 7.
Under questioning, Clayton agreed that publicly traded companies needed to do more to disclose the risks they faced from cyberattacks and to disclose them more quickly when they occur.
He also said the agency needed more resources for data security and to combat future attacks.
The SEC did not seek any increase to its budget for next year, but Clayton said that would change when it submits its budget for its 2019 fiscal year that beings in October of next year.
"We are going to need more money for IT security and technology generally and I intend to ask for it," he said.
The amount a single Wall Street bank spends on cybersecurity "dwarfs" the SEC's budget, he said.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen acknowledged Tuesday that the Fed is puzzled by the persistence of unusually low inflation and that it might have to adjust the timing of its interest rate policies accordingly.
Speaking to a conference of economists, Yellen touched upon key questions the Fed is confronting as it tries to determine why inflation has remained chronically below its target of 2 percent annually.
The Fed chair said officials still expect the forces keeping inflation low to fade eventually.
But she conceded that the Fed may need to adjust its assumptions.
In noting the persistence of low inflation, Yellen suggested that the Fed will take care not to raise rates too quickly.
But she also said the central bank should avoid raising rates too slowly.
Moving too gradually, she suggested, might eventually force the Fed to have to accelerate rate hikes and thereby elevate the risk of a recession.
Most analysts expect the central bank to raise rates in December, for a third time this year, in a reflection of economic improvement.
But the Fed has said its rate hikes will depend on incoming data.
In her speech in Cleveland to the annual conference of the National Association for Business Economics, Yellen went further than she has before in suggesting that the Fed could be mistaken in the assumptions it is making about inflation.
"My colleagues and I may have misjudged the strength of the labor market, the degree to which longer-run inflation expectations are consistent with our inflation objective or even the fundamental forces driving inflation," Yellen said.
The Fed seeks to control interest rates to promote maximum employment and stable prices, which it defines as annual price increases of 2 percent.
While the Fed has met its goal on employment, with the jobless rate at 4.4 percent, near a 16-year low, it has continued to miss its inflation target.
Chronically low inflation can depress economic growth because consumers typically delay purchases when they think prices will stay the same or even decline.
Inflation, which was nearing the 2 percent goal at the start of the year, has since then fallen further behind and is now rising at an annual rate of just 1.4 percent.
Yellen has previously attributed the miss on inflation this year to temporary factors, including a price war among mobile phone companies.
She and other Fed officials have predicted inflation would soon begin rising toward the Fed's target, helped by tight labor markets that will drive up wage gains.
In her remarks Tuesday, Yellen said this outcome of a rebound in inflation is still likely.
But she said the central bank needed to remain alert to the possibility that other forces not clearly understood might continue to keep inflation lower than the Fed's 2 percent goal.
The Fed chair cautioned that if the central bank moved too slowly in raising rates, it could inadvertently allow the economy to become overheated and thus have to raise rates so quickly in the future that it could push the country into a recession.
"It would be imprudent to keep monetary policy on hold until inflation is back to 2 percent," Yellen said.
During a question-and-answer session, Yellen said the Fed would be "looking at inflation very carefully" to determine the timing of upcoming rate hikes.
But she said the data is likely to be difficult to assess, in part because of the effects of the recent devastating hurricanes, which have forced up gasoline prices.
Yellen's remarks came a week after Fed officials left their benchmark rate unchanged but announced that they would start gradually shrinking their huge portfolio of Treasury and mortgage bonds.
Those holdings had grown from purchases the Fed made over the past nine years to try to lower long-term borrowing rates and help the U.S. economy recover from the worst downturn since the 1930s.
The Fed did retain a forecast showing that officials expect to boost rates three times this year.
So far, they have increased their benchmark lending rate twice, in March and June, leaving it at a still-low range of 1 percent to 1.25 percent.
Last week, the Fed said the reductions in its bond holdings would begin in October by initially allowing a modest $10 billion in maturing bonds to roll off the $4.5 trillion balance sheet each month.
Asked about how long-term loan rates might respond to reductions in the Fed's bond portfolio, Yellen cited a study that estimated that the increase in its bond holdings had lowered such rates by about 1 percentage point.
But she said the reduction in the holdings wouldn't likely raise rates by as much as a percentage point given that the Fed intended to keep the size of its balance sheet significantly higher than it was before the financial crisis.
She said any upward pressure on rates would likely be gradual and take place over several years.
Later Thursday, Yellen toured a job training center operated by Cuyahoga Community College and participated in a roundtable with students, faculty and potential employers.
Yellen, who has visited a number of job centers during her time as Fed chair, told the group that job training was especially important now as employers find it harder in a tight labor market to find workers with the necessary skills.
Crutsinger reported from Washington.
Sales of new U.S. homes slumped 3.4 percent in August, the second straight monthly decline.
The Commerce Department said Tuesday that sales dropped to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 560,000.
This followed a 5.5 percent decline in July.
Still, sales gains earlier this year mean that sales are running 7.5 percent higher year-to-date than in 2016.
Sales could worsen in coming months as parts of Texas and Florida  both hit by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma  find that new construction gets delayed as the focus turns to rebuilding properties that were flooded or damaged by the fierce winds and rainstorms.
But August's drop in new home sales also points to the limits of the rebound from the Great Recession and the housing bust that triggered the downturn a decade ago.
Home values have climbed at a much faster pace than incomes, meaning that many buyers had to strain their budgets to purchase a house.
Low mortgage rates reduced the financial crunch somewhat, but then sales listings began to dwindle and many would-be buyers have found themselves outbid on existing homes and priced out of new housing developments.
A shortage of homes for sale coupled with rising prices has turned affordability into a challenge for many would-be buyers.
Fewer new homes priced below $200,000 are coming onto the market.
New homes at these relatively affordable prices were 14 percent of sales in August, down from 17 percent in 2016 and 19 percent in 2015.
The median sales price increased 3.7 percent in the past 12 months to $368,100

New-home sales in August fell in the Northeast, South and West, while staying unchanged in the Midwest.
The sales decline over the past two months was so significant that the months' supply of new houses on the market ballooned to 6.1 months.
That figure had been hovering around 5.3 months in June  raising a question of whether builders will wait to sell off some of their inventory before breaking ground on more new houses.
The pace of new-home construction dropped 0.8 percent in August, but that was largely because of fewer apartment buildings being started.
Transcript for Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

doctor's office or pharmacy.
Next tonight, your money and grocery store and big box stores competing for it.
And this question, would you let Walmart in when you're not home if they delivered groceries right to your refrigerator?
Rebecca jarv Rebecca Jarvis tracking your money.
Reporter: What if you didn't feel like you had to be at two places at once.
Walmart taking the convenience of home delivery a few steps farther testing a new service.
The driver enters a one-time use code.
Reporter: The company partnering with lockmaker August home placed an order online and Walmart's delivery person can gain entry to your home, even stock your fridge, all while you're watching in realtime on your smartphone.
I think for younger folks working and putting in all kinds of hours and having a large commute it's a tremendous idea.
Reporter: But raising questions, too.
Not so sure about them coming in my home when I'm not there.
Reporter: Bottom line, David, this is one more step in the major competition between Walmart and Amazon.
Both retailers dueling to increase convenience and of course, profits, too.
David.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Hey guys welcome to reeled is happy Friday I'm Rebecca Jarvis the chief business technology and economics correspondent at ABC news and we have a great guest here with us today.
Rate valeo he is the founder of Bridgewater.
Associates which is the largest hedge fund in the world a 160.
Billion dollars under management and he is also the author.
Of this awesome new book it's called principles.
And it takes us on a road trip through your life through all of these stories all of these lessons learned along the way.
You starting your work behind.
From your two bedroom apartment here in New York City 1975.
Welcome to real biz.
Tell us about the book tell us about the inspiration and why he would write something like this today.
I wanted to writer because.
I wanted to pass along.
Just different things that I learned in order to be successful.
What I did.
Was every time I was in the situation.
I would write down the criteria for making a decision.
And so like created this collection of principles over a period of time when in this type of situation that type of situation what to do.
Then and I didn't want.
Publicity I wanna be private but in 2000 they we and to spend the financial crisis.
And we did well and we received a lot of attention because of the way that we think differently.
And it was misunderstood.
Generally.
So I put the principles that I wrote on line there was downloaded about three and a half million times and received a lot of thank you notes.
And now I'm at a stage of my life while making the transition.
I'm making the transition from political the second stage of my life took the third stage in my life.
You know I think that it's that one was elected three stages basis.
In the first stage of your life your dependent on others and you learn.
In the second stage of your life fewer weren't working.
And others are dependent on you.
And then you get to assert import pictures successful and you're no longer interest it and being more successful yourself.
The thing that you want to do was make other people successful it's like your parents at a certain age you want to make the other people successful.
And 2017.
Is really my transition year.
For the set second stage of my life with the third stage and wildlife.
And I had this cookbook of recipes so to speak that when I was operating in that and various circumstances.
I would use and it it's been miraculous.
It's been so it helps people understand each in other words by writing down a principal.
We've been able would have better understandings with the people I work went.
And we've also been able to convert them and algorithms.
That means that the computers are making decisions with us.
So it's been very very impact fool and so the main reason I'm passing along his own want to pass along what I've learned that's been helpful.
In order to help of the people.
I also hope.
That it will encourage other people too bright they are principally because not just my principles whatever the recipes for success are.
If you would have think can I get the principles for I wish Steve Jobs I was Einstein I wish all of those people.
Wrote their recipes when I was encountering something what what I do at that moment.
You know so if others right principles.
We'll also know.
How to deal with each you know I think to be principal I think right now in the country.
We have to think what is being principles what principles.
Bind us together what divide us.
Can we be clear about those and walked the talk for all those reasons I felt it was compelled to pass them along.
Were any taking questions from all of you so if you do have questions feel free to leave them in the comment section something that you write about.
In in the book ray.
That I really respect is this idea that the right answer might not be the answer that you come to you but you're looking for the right answer can come from anywhere.
And to your point about finding the right principles.
There are a lot of Smart people in this world in there are ways to reverse engineer success by looking at what they've done by looking at what you've done.
How did you make yourself open.
And maybe it was in that sort of first to second stage in life how did you.
Make yourself open as a leader who.
Need to be trusted needed to be seen as the person with the vision but also be open to taking ideas from elsewhere.
Misstates.
The power of mistakes.
In the talk about this as well will this is how I learned.
And so it was of a changing moment and in 1982.
I had put the greatest failure of my life.
A head in two stated that they were there.
Our country's wouldn't be able pay their don't expect that the banks and so on and it turned out to be right about that got a lot of tension for that.
On Wall Street greed congress asked me testify in all of this.
And I thought one when they would have that bank defaults Mexico defaulted on its debt and on August.
I thought than we were going to have an economic problem and we did have a debt problem but we didn't have an economic problem the exact.
Bottom in the stock market I thought things were.
Going to collapse and they went all right and I was so wrong.
That I had to let everybody ago.
And I got down to the point where I was so broke that I had to borrow 4000 dollars from that.
To help pay for my family's expenses and things.
And it was incredibly painful moment.
But it was the best thing maybe that ever happened one of the best things.
Because.
As I reflected on that it changed my attitude rather than thinking I'm right I started asked myself satellite no one.
It gave me the humility that I needed to balance with my audacity.
It made me asked that question.
How to one knows them right and it gave me an open mindedness what I think is one of the greatest tragedies of mankind.
And it's because it's so easily fixed is that people have in their minds.
Their own.
Opinions.
That are often wrong.
The best opinion may not be the one in your head and so what if you start to think.
How to Lenovo.
Right and you go out and stress tests that opinion and yeah do it in an open minded way.
And you take in things all of a sudden you realize that you can have the best thinking of anyone around you.
And so the important thing is to be right but it doesn't have to come from you the idea in your head right and that led me to create an idea and their credit company reports.
I wanted to.
Brightest independent thinkers who would challenge feature each other to create an idea meritocracy.
And eyes I describe in the book.
You know how that meritocracy working and that's basically just three things.
First everybody's got to put their honest thoughts on the table to look at yes of people don't do that right so you have to encourage right.
So put the honest thoughts on second.
You have Stewart and Julian value thoughtful disagreement not view it is conflict.
Right OK you can't have that thing in your style make.
I'm comfortable with the conflict you have to go with the conflict and allow it to happen.
It is Reverend Wright.
Is there an opportunity to learn.
How can I do how could we collectively make a better decision than we do individually.
And then third.
If used if that's still doesn't resolve it.
You have to have idea America credit worries of getting past that disagreement.
In other words know who knows and knows we have what we call believability waited decision.
And that has been the key to the success.
Cause the power.
Of getting the best ideas and collectively working.
And that humility that fear of being wrong raises the probability of being right.
That's been the key so one of the key elements here is to do that you know but.
They eat the book is filled with a lot of those kinds of suggestions that if you can operate with this principle that as the State's these various recipes and lots of things.
Well what I like about it is it's taking whoever you are and it optimizing it because this well while you have played in the field of finance throughout your life.
This is the kind of user manual that anybody who's a manager whether your.
Starting a new company that deals in widgets or you're running a restaurant.
Or you are hoping to someday do one of those things or anything frankly as a leader this is a guide book and it starting point for people.
Yes and I found from a lot of of the people's reactions I believe it's true for me.
It is even be on that.
It's any relationship.
OK it's any relationship or it's even just figuring out yourself and what is the right way to make decisions.
The rich and well.
That's what that's what the word principles mean.
Yeah right how do you deal with reality to get what you want effectively.
And there's only two things you need to do to be successful.
You need to know what the best decisions are on you have to have the courage to make them.
And when you start to realize that what you have in your head may not be the best and and get it wherever it is.
It's powerful for you whatever does life.
Would of the decisions you're making.
Totally agree OK we have got questions.
Okay Matt asks what's your favorite recipe and haircut.
Are there a lot of different recipes.
But again just building on this thing I would say.
Think for yourself.
No way.
That you don't know.
OK you don't all know all the things that you need to.
So to be able to have that radical open mindedness.
To know your weaknesses.
And to know what to do about.
They're only five things you need to do really.
In order to get what you want the first thing is you have to have your audacious goals.
You you have to do when you're going to your goals.
You're going to and challenging your problems in your failures.
You have to die knows those problems to get at their root causes.
And those root causes may be weaknesses you or mistakes that you see you have to embrace those.
And look at those who I have a week and then you have to design your way out of whatever that weaknesses or whatever that mistake is to get around that problem.
And that may include if you have a weakness to be able to work with people who were strong where you or we can't.
And then with that design.
To then pushed through to results XQ that is so.
And other words.
Know what you don't know yes and no had to deal with it recognize.
That what you don't know is much greater than what you do know.
My daddy used to always say the more you know the more you know you don't that's right.
Right and so knowing how to deal with your not knowing not not embrace your weaknesses.
Know them figure out how to deal with them and do that collectively.
It's very powerful.
So how do you think about this what your hiring and how do you diagnosed.
And another person sitting across Romeo and determine whether or not they're aware those five things and that they would work out the team will not the people normally are not used to being in an environment in which there's that.
Radicals straightforward news and and dealing with those things.
And you talk about your honesty and realizing along the way that sometimes that radical honesty.
Didn't always go the way that you are expecting it to.
Right.
So the way we deal with it is we try to explain that explain in the book.
It's explained before they come we show people what the environments like a chilling videos.
You know we take everything for everybody to see.
We take everything for everybody to see.
OK so that that's way you have to have an idea meritocracy.
So because of people can't see things that you form their own opinion and right so we'll show them what it's like.
And then they make an intellectual decision.
They want this and then they come in because.
You know.
I guess there would described bridge ordered one sentence or hostess it's an idea meritocracy.
In which the goals or equally to have meaningful work and meaningful relationships.
The relationships part is as much the reward.
I and to do that we need to be radical truthful witness and radical transparency.
Because of what you can have an idea meritocracy.
And that's been the magic formula so weak weak first say you wanna do it intellectually.
It's like going into the Navy SEALs you might say I want to do it can't hurt you up for this and then you go in and you experience it.
And people go through an adjustment process and it typically takes about eighteen months all behavior modification typically takes about eighteen months.
Of getting used to it.
About a third of the people it's not for you know it just doesn't work out.
For that reason.
About the majority of people once they get to that perspective of having this transparency they could speak up vacancy that they want people can.
Communicate their protocols for having real idea meritocracy.
Then they don't want to work anywhere else.
Because they have relationships but they also know that there's office politics.
You know normally.
Behind the C rights at all.
You don't know what somebody's thinking about.
Velocity two years that's not the same here.
So there's a transition team and so it's from the answer your question.
It's from the beginning of exploiting it it's by showing of the videos it's by having toe in the water rates by going there fighting out of its right.
And then they have all.
Witty line it's all part of the evolutionary process right.
It's part of self discovery.
I don't think there's probably anybody that I know who's gone to company Bridgewater.
Who hasn't found it fabulous self discovery process I guarantee you it interest.
And if fruits and if it's for you it's phenomenal it's like getting fit it's a you know I was thinking.
Yeah it's sort Europe.
Nobody likes to exercise.
You know ward the diet or whatever may be that's necessary to do that but to have behavior change and make you feel more effective.
It's great.
So anyway that's different reactions.
Great answer.
And how I like that questions of Isabel was asking.
For those of you out there.
Where to the principles come from early life teaching.
Our principles come from interacting with reality.
And then reflecting on those interactions.
I've an expression.
I think it is Georgian troops that I experience.
Plus reflection.
Equals progress.
And what I mean is if you're doing something wrong.
You're gonna get communicated by pain and if you're successful.
You're not gonna change.
But it in the pain and on this day.
There's probably a lesson so washed my attitude stored to change whenever I would make a painful mistake.
I would think of it is a puzzle.
That would give me a jab.
If I could solve the pots and the puzzle was.
What would be the principles that I would use so that when I encountered the same situation again.
I would have a better result.
And the jab.
Would be that principle to have a better results and by writing them down.
So why thing.
That you are very systematic about your approach Yahoo!
This isn't a Willy Nilly reflection of going over the same pot again in the getting good.
Doesn't stick.
If so it seemed like they come from or.
Encounters with reality.
Particularly painful encounters if you loosen there's okay.
It's screaming at you.
That you need a principle to don't doing the same thing again.
And if you ride it down this is like thirty years of writing these.
Okay and then you look at it with people and you communicate with people is that a good way of dealing with that thing.
And edit and then one another one comes law.
As the same things happen over and over gray.
When another one comes along and you look at that principle or even when you're dealing with people you together agree on that study only a lose lose situation.
It compounds.
And it and that's where to build them they the principles that's most effective way.
I want it there's so many places I could go with this but I want to talk to a little bit about current events and what's happening in the world.
A question that I frequently get from people were looking up the market now the Dow the S&P 500 have hit new all time highs it seems like almost every other day this year.
Based on article at you mentioned that the world feels like 1930s.
Yup yup.
Where do you think we are in this current cycle and can it really last when.
Companies like apple and Amazon and FaceBook are 30% of the growth we've seen in stock so far.
Links but why it's very similar in 1937.
In we had a debt crisis in 2000 and day and in that period we had interest rates come down to zero.
And that was like 1933.
32 when interest rates it is a reaction to the Great Depression that's right.
And then there's the Federal Reserve in both of those cases the only time this century up.
Printed a lot of money and bought a lot of financial assets and so from the bought 2000.
Until the present.
Just like from 1932.
Until 1937.
Asset prices went up a lot of money supplies increased Wright what more money supply and the economy's rebound in him okay.
But that rebound.
Had a two tier economy read it it it there was one economy that did grates or if you look at measures like.
The unemployment rate and if you look at the stock market and so on that spot.
But if you divide the economy into two parts you see that there's two very different parts to Africa.
To put that in perspective the top 110 of 1% of our populations now worth.
Is equal to the 90%.
Combined the bottom 90% c'mon.
If you look at the bottom 60% of the population.
They have miserable existence economy has not worked for hasn't had any glee at having rat wages haven't gone up and.
And yeah percent of the country doesn't have a 401K or any kind of backed notes.
The aggregate no sense and worse than that.
It's the only.
Place in the world we're death rate to rise in another words.
Combination of opiates.
Suicide.
And other words bad economy he just carved out that 60% economy.
That's a very bad economy and so we have.
Just like the 1935.
To forty period.
And so we have that gap.
That's the biggest issue of our time it's reflected in the elections OK it's a big issue.
If the economy was to have a downturn.
Yesterday.
It would be a lot of anger that would be a wealth conflict that would be a social conflict between political con right.
So add were also what the point 1937.
Was the point where they stopped pushing those interest rates and.
Roderick there is now hiking they're not buying their their peeling back on on their purchases of asset write.
And so we are now in a situation.
In which we this Federal Reserve has got to be very careful.
The written because.
First.
All assets are sensitive to interest rate changes.
And we have a more leverage economy have that polarity.
So as we move forward.
The less of them 1930s.
It doesn't mean we have to repeat 1930s.
But the lesson of 1937.
Is with those large obligations.
And with that.
And there is in a symmetric risk on the down side and so to be careful about tightening monetary policy.
Because if you ask the Federal Reserve they can't explain the relationship between unemployment and inflation.
Ray okay.
What we won't really don't have inflation right now even though the unemployment rate has gone down in the one thing.
That you heard from fed chair Janet Yellen multiple times in the last.
Press conference earlier this week.
They can't really figure out why inflation isn't going up.
List you can't figure it out okay I have my own what you need to carry.
But I think that they're defining labor as unemployment.
Rather than the new world labor and think about it is a combination of technologies for good that is almost robots.
And technology competing with people and now what is the work force.
And the competition.
Between technology.
Other words what's happening now.
Is that as algorithms.
Are built they start to replace a lot of jobs estimated that over than you know next.
Twenty years we could lose about 40% of our work.
Yet you talked about it competent artificial intelligence algorithms automation all of those things can run have an impact of very significant want it.
Well it's not if it'd happen.
So when we look at this if the Federal Reserve does not know why flee his rise it okay.
And the risks array symmetric on downs are okay because it's so much easier.
To you know that tightening monetary policies that work causes a lot of debt when you raise interest rates.
You know that the brakes were on hand but if you're close to zero on interest rates and you've done a lot of quantitative easing.
And also asset prices have gone up in their very interest rates.
If you know all those things that you know it's not as easy on that it's a symmetric on the downside also socially and politically.
So wait at least until you see more sides of inflation.
Before worrying about the tightening of monetary policy that's the lesson of 1937.
The let in 1937 that was a small tightening set the stock market down 50% and caused a lot of social conflict.
That was the thing so be careful it's analogous to 1937.
So and I know we have to wrap things up here but what do you think about the fact that it very likely we'll see the Fed hike interest rates in December and then three more times next year from what they've signal is that.
If if all things are steady as they are at this moment if everything was held constant as they are at this moment.
And the Fed does exactly what it has signaled it will do.
Where do you think that puts us an okay spot or in a dangerous place.
I think that would be in a dangerous placed on the other hand let me say they're for the last I would say.
22 and a half years.
The Fed gave such indications before right and they haven't necessarily make that they didn't do any bat.
Okay they did they didn't do less lower right because.
As they.
Were feeling their way along.
They were they saw that that would not be a good move in hand so I believe that the picture that the Fed is painting.
In terms of its combination of interest rates are letting the balance sheet Ron down.
Will be not what they will end up doing probably.
Because I think that would be too tight at a dangerous time so I don't think they'll do that.
But time will tell.
Last question everybody.
Worst advice you received your career.
Make people.
Love they should make people happy.
I think I should I think I should help people be successful.
And that sometimes.
Happiness in that move that in the moment mood.
Is something that is the opposite you know the world is made up of first order consequences and second water yes.
And often the first to water consequences.
Eat something that tastes good.
Good in the moment that type of mentality commit necessarily pay off in the long run a lot of the time in actually so.
Think about what you.
You know.
Think about what is going to be what you really want and think about the second order consequences to get what you want.
Because we have two brains and harboring rail and we have the thoughtful part of our brain and it pre frontal cortex port thoughtful.
And then we have that emotional.
And emotional so wonderful thing but there are two types of emotions those that'll harm us and those are really that all what we want inspiration.
You know all of those good ones and to know that there's a great trick in life.
And that great trick of life is that those first order consequences.
That are the emotional ones can get us in trouble.
I believe that to be true so I would say that you know the worst is look beyond the first order consequences.
Fantastic rate Elliott thank you so much for joining us thank you it was really an interesting conversation the book is called principal.
Amazon might be sold out right now so if you're going.
Well put year old lottery and you're he'll be on the top of the list that'll come it's been and allot them and so.
If it'll get there which is phenomenal so culprits irate Alley a thank you so much street for stopping by thank you and have a great weekend everybody be well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

I would assure the steps that were taken to protect election integrity and make sure that FaceBook is a force for democracy.
And while the amount problematic content that we found so far remains relatively small.
And he attempted interference is a serious issue.
So you're dying thing it's that we're going to be working on over the next few months first.
We are actively working with the US government on its ongoing investigations into Russian interference second.
We will continue our own investigation.
Into what happened on FaceBook in this election third.
Going forward and maybe the most important steps we're taking is we're going to make political advertising more transparent.
Fourth.
We will strengthen our own ad review process for political.
We are increasing our investment in security and specifically in the election integrity.
Sixth.
We will expand our partnerships with election commissions around the world seven.
We will increase sharing of threat information with other technology and security companies.
We are working proactively.
To strengthen the democratic process finally.
We've been working to ensure the integrity of the German elections this we.
From taking action against.
Thousands of fake accounts are partnering with public authorities that the federal office for information security team sharing security practices with the candidates and parties.
We're also examining the activity of accounts we've removed and we've not yet found similar type.
Interference effort in Germany.
And this is incredibly important and we've been focused on this for a while.
Now with the same time.
It's important not to lose sight.
Some of the more straightforward and in larger ways that FaceBook please role in elections and these effects operated much larger scales of a hundred times or a thousand times bigger than what we're discussing here.
In 2016.
People billions and billions of interactions and open discussions on FaceBook that they have never happened before offline.
Candidates had direct channels to communicate with tens of millions of citizens.
And campaign spent tens of millions organizing.
An advertising online to get their messages out further.
We organized get out the vote efforts helped as many as two million people registered to vote who might not have voted under its.
Many these dynamics were new in this election.
And at a much larger scale then had ever seen before history adamant.
And they were much larger in scale than any of the interference that we found.
We will continue working with the government to understand the full extent Russian interference.
And we will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world.
But also to give everyone a voice it to be a force for good and democracy everywhere.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

We turn to a major new lawsuit for women at Google claiming g@nder discrimination.
Saying the company pays men more than women and gives women fewer opportunities.
Our chief business correspondent Rebecca Jarvis is here with the story.
Good morning, Rebecca.
Good morning, Michael.
Yes, that's rye of the three women have tied the lawsuit accusing Google of discriminating against female employees by systematically paying them lower compensation than Google pays to male employees performing substantiallily similar work.
Essentially it is saying they're underpaying them denying them promotion opportunities and they want to make it a class action suit covering all women who worked at Google within the last four years.
And a spokesperson for Google telling me they disagree with the central allegations and that the company has extensive systems to place -- to ensure that we pay fairly.
The department of labor is also investigating Google's hiring practices.
This is not the end.
We'll continue to hear about this.
When is this going to stop?
The more people talk about this, the more it's exposed if it is, in fact happening, the more change we can make.
We can hope.
Yes, absolutely.
Yes, we can.
All right.
Thanks, guys.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

All right, switching gear now to a story about one CEO's strategy to help her get ahead in silicon valley.
She says she dyed her hair brown to be taken more seriously in the tech world.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis has more.
All right, why are we in Oakland?
Eileen Carrey is a successful CEO in silicon valley known for co-founding glassbreakers, a diversity and inclusion opportunity software company.
This morning it's not her top tech that has everyone talking.
It's her hair.
Made the decision based on research to change my perception in a way so that it improved the likelihood of, you know, being taken more seriously as a leader, as opposed to maybe a sexual object.
Reporter: One of her secrets to getting ahead, proactively fighting the blond stereotype.
Going from this to this.
When I first started the company I I was given stress from a friend who just broke down and plain and simple terms about perception, how I would be perceived.
Reporter: While running her company as a blond in a male dominated workforce she feared her hair color made it less likely she would be taken seriously by potential investors.
I kept getting comments about, it's so up pressive that you're so young and you started this company like I was 23 but I'm 31.
So I dyed my hair.
I wanted to appear a little less sexy.
Reporter: Karen Shackleford says this feeling is common in the workplace.
There are research study has show women who dress more femininely, wear more jewelry, look more attractive are less likely to be hired for managerial positions.
She said she heard plenty of stories like her own and not just in silicon valley.
That's something that happens all over America in our school, in our offices, in our government.
So this is a phenomenon that does not affect me but all of us.
Indeed.
So great to have Rebecca and editor in chief of "Marie Claire" with us.
I know you have a podcast called no limits.
How does this story compare to all you've seen in the tech world.
A podcast Ann has been on and want you on soon, Lara.
We are hearing this everywhere.
Fundamentally an issue with women trying to be heard, that desire to be seen as something more than a sex object and to be taken seriously and that's really what's happening here.
It takes different forms, but women all over the workfce are trying to be heard and taken seriously.
And, Anne, this really is about more than hair, isn't it?
This is a larger conversation.
Well, yeah, I think there are two things at play.
One silicon valley definitely has a sexism problem and that has got to change.
But secondly women no matter where we work are going to be judged on our appearance more harshly than men and you have to play that game.
Do I think you need to change the color of your hair, absolutely not.
If that gives you confidence to walk in a room and own it then I say go for it.
I'll ask you, Rebecca.
You talked to so many powerful women.
What advice do you have to women who want to get ahead, specifically in the tech world?
I think one really simple and straightforward piece of advice that I heard from a top female CEO in silicon valley is to speak up once a day in a meeting.
And that's something that you can make a commitment to yourself and do.
Just say, every day once a day I am going to speak up in a meeting.
I'm going to make it comfortable for myself, because it does get more comfortable the more that you do it and the more you talk, the more you're heard.
You think you'll be heard loud and clear, blond or brunette?
Absolutely.
Just carry yourself with confidence.
I love that, I mean at the end of the day that is ulth they what it's all about, we hope.
Really great conversation you guys.
Thank you so much.
Coming up, everybody, the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: $24 million winner claims prize with 2 days left

Now Playing: Walmart tests out a new grocery delivery service

Now Playing: Bridgewater hedge fund manager Ray Dalio talks investing, leadership

Now Playing: Nine things Facebook vows to do to help combat election interference

Now Playing: Women accuse Google of discrimination against female employees

Now Playing: Silicon Valley CEO says she dyes her hair brown to be taken seriously

Now Playing: Florida Irma evacuee wins $10K in NC lottery

Now Playing: Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

Now Playing: Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

Now Playing: Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Now Playing: Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

Now Playing: Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Now Playing: Massachusetts woman quits job after $758.7M Powerball win

Now Playing: Superior outdoor products made in America

Now Playing: Johnson and Johnson ordered to pay $417M to one woman over cancer claims

Now Playing: Woman wins $1.6 million on Vegas airport slot machine

Now Playing: AMC tries to legally block MoviePass service

Now Playing: The best ways to save on back-to-school essentials
Transcript for Hurricane Irma will likely be costliest storm in U.S. history

That is a scene in Miami right now.
100-mile-an-hour winds.
You see the palm trees swaying.
That is not the worst of the storm.
That's Miami right now.
Miami police waning officers are sheltered in place.
They're not able to respond to anyone in trouble.
We're going the talk more with with chief business and economics reporter Rebecca Jarvis.
The mayor doesn't know what the damage will be like.
We know lit cost a lot.
If the estimates are right, George, this will be the costliest storm in U.S. History.
Hurricane Irma now potentially going to cost $200 billion.
Back to back with hurricane Harvey, which could cost as much as $180 billion.
Back to back two of the most expensive storms in history.
Greater than Katrina, which cost $160 billion.
You have to think about the area this storm is tracing.
Some of the most populated areas.
8 1/2 million properties in potential risk.
The crops.
Florida is a place we get Orange juice from.
A number of produce products.
$1.2 billion in crop damage is estimated right now.
Gnat ongoing issue, the fact that there are major gasoline out outages.
The fourth largest shipping port in the country is shut down.
Getting back to business is going to take a long time.
That's even though the biggest city?
The state, Miami, getting hit hard by wind.
But spared the worst.
Spared the worst.
But you have this all up and down the west coast now.
Gasoline outannals.
People have rushed to get out of town.
As a result of this storm.
But still, you have very likely going to see huge, huge economic implications from the storm.
They could really expand into the national economy.
It could show up in the gdp figures going forward as well.
Nat ewe dowd, ymatthew dowd, you were advising George Bush in the hurricane Katrina aftermath.
Many people forget that hurricane Katrina horribly tragic, three weeks later, wee had hurricane Rita.
We had two major hurricanes.
When you look back, the lessons learned from people by Katrina.
And two, how important the likely action and local decisionmaking and local authority is from the city to the state.
The two governors, governor Abbott and Scott, have both responded well.
The city officials have been all over this pip think secondarily, the president's response.
I have to say, mother nature doesn't dwiscriminate and is not partisan.
They expect our leaders not the be partisan.
President trump has emphasized supporting the local officials.
He has.
Absolutely.
He's been on task.
I think in the midst of this when he made the deal on the debt ceiling and FEMA funding, he did it in a bipartisan way.
In the midst of the tragedy, this is the best week of the president's Prez zen si.
Your dad is there.
He's 83.
In his closet with mattresses.
Holed up.
E H knows he'll be there for the next 12, 24 hours.
A long day ahead.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Barry's Bootcamp CEO shares top career lessons

You started working out you said early on with fairy.
And you move your way up.
Inside of the company to CEO which I really admire the idea of learning the whole business before you get to that top plea in the company he.
What are some of the most important lessons you learned along the way.
I think for me it's been about.
I never really started out my career theories.
You see.
It wasn't this.
It was about.
It got to get it where.
It is.
So much how they.
It was about Natalie.
We're.
Hugh B will also be.
I you.
And else people.
Which is essentially.
Total fantasy.
What I hear what you love something first of all passion is so important to being an evangelist it actually and really caring about it not speaking at not being like some outside of its like oh yeah I love this thing but actually don't really.
But then once you're in it and you're experiencing it you.
Really understand it and you know how it works and packets to the execution part you can appreciate.
If you make a change in fact of the company you can appreciate.
What all of the people inside of the company working are gonna respond to that changed life.
And you're expanding a lot now I read is at 39.
Locations one hour 41 might be.
Four one by the end of this year and you're expanding I read Stockholm in the line.
Yet we we just.
I'm curious internationally.
Our people is nuts about working out as they are in the days to go it's hard it did and.
Definitely not me.
It appears like a pop star break.
I'm targeting and seeking to manage it can we get influence some oh.
Oh my eyes.
I don't think that we had.
There are until.
Oh my Angel but at times do.
And he can attest how fun it is time yeah.
Party in the lighting gas sexy in there's definitely won't like.
Performance element to it that people are connecting it.
Internationally regardless.
Intense exercise is.
Stockholm was super massive people when I did my influences.
15% of the people that well when you.
That's that's the term of those.
That at least at twelve point zero when you're damaged twenty.
It's twelve miles an hour.
Wow you know that's article driving yet but they're being you know by sitting there writing and I let.
Hands.
London these symptoms.
In Dubai.
Pastor is.
Dubai is interesting a lot of B kind of fitness brands from the US and they're and second location after new York and LA.
Is due by them.
It's it seems like it's a market that a lot of people want to be and why do you think that is.
And there are a lot of acts that swimming.
American and you walk and been to divide I have I actually have visited a friend of mine with there it's really isn't walker.
The city and you see.
Peak American concepts like restaurants case that two locations.
So it's definitely a place that says.
There.
What would be your number one tip to people out there who want to start a workout regiment.
But they're afraid.
And I think about it I was deeply.
I think when you can make working social.
It just as fun if you running next to someone other areas are outside and having a hard time if something that.
Mara choose something that you really enjoy it because then you'll want to go back but enjoyment is relative because when I am very class I'm having fun.
Yeah but I feel so home good afterwards.
And I feel so strong and so empowered and I see the results but that's what keeps me coming back so what ever your motivation is do something that makes you feel good that you're not like dragging yourself there and eating it.
Because then you're just you're it you're not and keep it out.
And for I talked a lot of people I'm like an evangelist pretty bad but I love berries and that I talked a lot of people about an I'm not ready yet and it I would before I was.
When I might first there is class literally the instructor was joking.
When he said take your inclined to 15% and out like this is really funny and then everywhere rallies are I was like wait they're serious about this.
So I was not ready I wasn't in shape but I went and got through it kept going that's what gets you instincts and that's what I was told it was just comic the bandit.
And was people always say it.
Varies I didn't.
That you weren't like super eight I don't worry about jobs there and me.
And you.
Should.
Well and I very much and it's it's your instructor when they know which are there's there's started.
Is it that these two.
And they're just.
The other misconception that you haven't met but because of the boot camp at some weakening the Alley you.
And quietly cute lady peace is comrade faster it's not like like everybody in the same we're all struggling together and the instructors are really supportive.
No it doesn't drill sergeant.
By its board when it comes to you eat up that it right from the customers while employees.
Leadership alliance use your instructors.
To me and hide people that.
Our or or out there was watching right now we liked commencement without high.
Cardona and a lot of them think they are governed positive off them.
Is inspirational and this is what people that the news that those.
That's true they desperation.
But I believe that you were.
As a after values in place to make sure that we especially this level you and higher in people.
We understand there's very it is and why.
Six two decades.
And a lot of have to do treat.
William treatment.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey triggers major spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the big spike in gas prices heading into the last weekend of summer vacation.
Here's Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight, gasoline prices surging.
The national average for a gallon of regular is now $2.55, up 50 cents.
In Dallas, what looks like a parking lot is really the endless line for gas, and many pumps there already out.
Harvey affecting more than 20% of America's refining.
And major pipelines that ship fuel have been stopped or slowed.
But tonight these tankers refueling those stations emptied out by panic after the storm.
Analysts expect prices to jump three to five cents a day before backing up in mid-september.
Rebecca, thank you.
There's still much more ahead on "World news tonight" this Friday.
Handcuffed at the hospital.
Outrage after video shows a

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harvey has caused an instant spike in gas prices nationwide

Next tonight, the devastation in Texas causing an instant spike in gas prices nationwide.
The largest refinery in the U.S. Shutting down.
Drivers already paying more for gas, heading into the last weekend of summer.
Here's ABC's chief business correspondent, Rebecca Jarvis.
Reporter: Tonight with much of the country's energy complex underwater, the ripple effect.
From coast to coast, gasoline prices rising and set to spike further.
Gasbuddy predicting the national average for a gallon of gas now $2.43 will increase 15 to 25 cents in coming weeks.
It's less money in my pocket.
Reporter: The storm shutting down nearly a quarter of U.S.
Refining capacity.
This Chevron plant in Baytown, Texas, inundated.
15 gulf coast refineries, including motiva, the largest in the country now shuttered.
Tom, they are changing these prices at this pump as we speak.
Hiking them and this price spike is expected to last another two to three weeks, Tom.
So many with road trips planned ahead.
All right, rebaek ka.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon and Whole Foods slash grocery prices

consumer alert.
Amazon is taking on the supermarkets by taking over whole foods and cutting prices on staples by up to 40%.
It could be the start of a major price war and Adrienne Bankert has the story.
Good morning, Adrienne.
Reporter: How excited are you that whole foods is no longer going to cost your whole paycheck, guys.
Yeah, thank you.
In Manhattan they sold completely out of some items by 6:30 P.M.
The reaction online staggering as customers enjoyed phenomenal deals.
Whole foods has had a reputation for being way too expensive.
From the looks of things that is changing.
This morning a grocery revolution that could have a direct impact on your bill.
The first changes now from that ambitious purchase by Amazon of whole foods, the chain slashing its prices in almost 500 stores Monday and up to 43% drop on some of your most popular products from bananas to avocados, apples and eggs.
Rotisserie was flying off the shelves.
Reporter: The big question will they match?
They're conventional stores.
What will happen?
They'll change.
If they don't they're out of business.
Reporter: Retail experts weighing in on whole foods and Amazon's move could set off a boom of benefits.
We're seeing price drops in whole foods.
In the long term we're going to see a lot more competition for grocery stores, especially those that cater to the high earner demographic.
Reporter: And is it megastore Walmart that Amazon and whole foods really have in their sights with these drops?
Amazon with this acquisition of whole foods and that price drop is really trying to take that market share away from Walmart, especially when it comes to grocery and they're getting very close.
Reporter: And more changes in store with Amazon's brand.
The echo on sale next to the quinoa and kale.
So it's really phenomenon flal how far prices have dropped.
Some example.
We went to a whole foods in new York City, a couple.
Fuji apple, organic kind, $3.49 a pound.
Now only $1.99 a pound.
That 43% drop and Hass avocados like the one I have in my hand here, 2.99 a pound last week.
Now they're just $1.99 a pound, 33% savings.
A lot of people saying they want their avocado toast and guacamole.
Now you can have a lot.
It will depend on the store as to what the price drops will be but you'll see a lot of those sale signs and I think everybody will be happy about it.
The lines will be even longer than they already are.
That's the thing.
We talked to some people would said that there was stuff that was cleared out yesterday and a lot of people going for the avocados.
Those price, it's worth it.
Worth standing in line.
It is true, everybody always says that joke the whole foods whole paycheck.
I'm glad you pointed that out.
Not anymore.
No more.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Gas prices expected to rise as Hurricane Harvey passes over oil refineries

Not only is this a big test.
For the president is also.
Potentially big blow for the US economy that's correct because as we know many of our US oil refineries are there in the gulf and they are also taking a beating so we had.
ABC's Rebecca Jarvis here to talk about the massive economic impact this is having on the region and across the country that's right Amy and Dan and one of the things that you'll see from all of this as well there's a huge Schuman tool an emotional hole on many.
There is an economic hole on every one in the country and that's because of the location that it's happening here this is the heart.
Of our energy patch 45%.
Of our country's refining capacity exists there in the Gulf of Mexico a third of that capacity is right in the ranged where this storm is hitting.
And gasoline prices are projected to climb anywhere from five cents to 25 cents a gallon.
Throughout the country and 25 cents would be on the end where if a refinery actually gets hit many of them are shuttered for the moment if one gets hit destroyed.
That's where you would really see the bigger spike in prices.
Also on that human told side of things housing so many of these highly populated areas are going to face housing challenges 200000.
Homes at least.
In the path of this storm.
And the estimates right now are that anywhere from one to two billion dollars in damage could be done shortly from the wind and storm that doesn't even include the flooding to.
That's when you love your sorry we're twelve years out from from Katrina where several years up from sandy in this area and people are still recover from both of those storms right now.
And this is what homeowner see every time there's a terrible storm the time that it takes to recover is much longer than the storm itself.
Well Rebecca we certainly appreciate we know that the flood damage wasn't included in that and we know that is the biggest concern.
For so many people who are now taking care of people who were in the storm zone it's the flooding we're worried about as you said earlier it's the water that kills as well.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
The Commerce Department slapped duties of nearly 220 percent on Canada's Bombardier C Series aircraft Tuesday in a victory for Boeing that is likely to raise tensions between the United States and its allies Canada and Britain.
Commerce ruled that Montreal-based Bombardier used unfair government subsidies to sell jets at artificially low prices in the U.S.

"The U.S. values its relationships with Canada, but even our closest allies must play by the rules," Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said.
Canada responded by saying it "strongly disagrees" with the U.S. move.
"This is clearly aimed at eliminating Bombardier's C Series aircraft from the U.S. market," said Chrystia Freeland, Canada's minister of foreign affairs.
Bombardier, meanwhile, called the decision "absurd .... U.S. trade laws were never intended to be used in this manner, and Boeing is seeking to use a skewed process to stifle competition."
In April, Boeing charged that Bombardier had received at least $3 billion in subsidies from the governments of Britain, Canada and the province of Quebec.
The Chicago-based aircraft manufacturer asked the Commerce Department and the U.S. International Trade Commission to investigate the alleged "predatory pricing."
Specifically, Boeing said that Bombardier last year sold Delta Air Lines 75 CS100 aircraft for less than it cost to build them.
"Subsidies enabled Bombardier to dump its product into the U.S. market, harming aerospace workers in the United States and throughout Boeing's global supply chain," Boeing said Tuesday.
But Delta has said Boeing didn't even make the 100-seat jets it needed.
"Boeing has no American-made product to offer because it canceled production of its only aircraft in this size range  the 717  more than 10 years ago," Delta said in a statement Tuesday.
President Donald Trump campaigned on a promise to get tough on trade.
He has repeatedly criticized Canada, saying it unfairly blocks U.S. dairy products and subsidizes its softwood lumber industry.
Trump also has threatened to pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement if he can't negotiate a better version with Canada and Mexico.
Boeing's complaint against Bombardier drew a backlash even before Tuesday's decision.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau threatened this month to stop doing business with Boeing, which is in talks to sell Canada 18 Super Hornet jet fighters.
British Prime Minister Theresa May has discussed the case with Trump.
Her concern: Bombardier employs more than 4,000 workers in Northern Ireland.
Connecticut Democratic Sens.
Richard Blumenthal and Christopher Murphy last week wrote a letter urging U.S. government officials to "refrain from taking action that will endanger the many jobs in Connecticut that depend upon Bombardier."
Engines for the C Series aircraft are made by Pratt & Whitney, based in East Hartford, Connecticut.
Commerce's findings Tuesday aren't the end of the matter.
The department is expected to announce its findings in another case against Bombardier early next month.
Then the International Trade Commission  an independent federal agency that rules on trade cases  will decide early next year whether to uphold Commerce's duties.
Bombardier could appeal any sanctions to a U.S. court or to a dispute-resolution panel created under NAFTA.
The Canadian government could also take the case to the World Trade Organization in Geneva.
Gillies reported from Toronto

Follow Paul Wiseman on Twitter at https://twitter.com/PaulWisemanAP
___

Equifax CEO steps down in the wake of damaging data breach

NEW YORK (AP)  Equifax CEO Richard Smith is stepping down as the credit reporting agency attempts to clean up the mess left by a damaging data breach that exposed highly sensitive information about 143 million Americans.
The company described Smith's departure as a retirement.
It comes after Equifax disclosed that hackers exploited a software flaw that the company didn't fix to steal Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data that provide the keys to identify theft.
Ivanka Trump's business ties shrouded in secrecy in China

SHANGHAI (AP)  The Chinese supply chains of Ivanka Trump's brand are more opaque than ever.
That raises questions about who her company is doing business with in a country where it's hard not to bump up against the government.
Among the few publicly identified companies that have previously shipped Ivanka Trump goods to the U.S., the AP found one owned by the Chinese government and another selected for special export subsidies  a possible violation by China of global fair trade rules.
US Senators grill SEC chair on disclosure of data breach

WASHINGTON (AP)  U.S. senators from both parties on Tuesday grilled the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission  the agency responsible for policing Wall Street  on its handling of a 2016 data breach that was disclosed only last week.
The hack breached the SEC's system for handling corporate filings intended for investors, known as EDGAR.
Adidas exec, 4 coaches charged in college bribery scheme

NEW YORK (AP)  In one of the biggest crackdowns on the corrupting role of money in college basketball, 10 men  including a top Adidas executive and four assistant coaches  were charged Tuesday with using hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to influence star athletes' choice of schools, shoe sponsors, agents, financial advisers, even tailors.
Yellen: Fed is perplexed by chronically low inflation

CLEVELAND (AP)  Chair Janet Yellen conceded that the Fed is puzzled by the persistence of unusually low inflation and that it might have to adjust the timing of its interest rate policies accordingly.
Most analysts expect the Fed to raise rates in December, for a third time this year, in a reflection of economic gains.
But the Fed has said its rate hikes will depend on incoming data.
Stocks edge higher as tech rebounds and cruise lines rise

NEW YORK (AP)  US stocks move higher as small companies continue to rise and technology companies recover some of their losses from a day earlier.
Cruise line operator Carnival is rising after a strong third-quarter report, as is open-source software company Red Hat.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said the Fed may need to change its interest rate plans in response to low inflation.
Republican leaders: Senate won't vote on Obamacare repeal

WASHINGTON (AP)  Facing assured defeat, Republican leaders decided Tuesday not to even hold a vote on the GOP's latest attempt to repeal the Obama health care law, surrendering on their last-gasp effort to deliver on the party's banner campaign promise.
Trump vows to 'fix the mess' as US targets North Korea banks

WASHINGTON (AP)  The Trump administration is using new sanctions authority to punish eight North Korean banks and 26 bank workers living abroad.
The sanctions rely on an executive order President Donald Trump signed last week to target North Korea's access to the international banking system.
Trump says North Korea must no longer be allowed to "threaten the entire world with unthinkable loss of life."
Trump vows to cut taxes 'tremendously' for middle class

WASHINGTON (AP)  President Donald Trump is vowing to deliver on a major tax cut for middle-class Americans as the White House and congressional leaders prepare to release details on a tax overhaul proposal that would slash the corporate rate and simplify the nation's tax code.
The grand plan to rewrite the nation's tax code would be the first major overhaul in three decades.
It also would deliver on a Trump campaign pledge.
Macron: Europe is too slow, blind to dangers of nationalism

PARIS (AP)  Calling Europe slow, weak and ineffective, French President Emmanuel Macron says the EU should embrace a joint budget, shared military force and harmonized taxes to stay globally relevant.
With Brexit looming, Macron warned the rest of Europe against the dangers of anti-immigrant nationalism and fragmentation, saying that goes against the principles of a shared Europe born from the tragedy of world wars.
The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 0.18 of a point to 2,496.84.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 11.77 points, almost 0.1 percent, to 22,284.32.
The Nasdaq composite gained 9.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,380.16.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 4.91 points, or 0.3 percent, to a record 1,456.86.
Benchmark U.S. crude slid 34 cents to $51.88 a barrel in New York.
Brent crude, the standard for international oil prices, gave up 58 cents to $58.44 a barrel in London.
Wholesale gasoline lost 2 cents to $1.70 a gallon.
Heating oil retreated 1 cent to $1.85 a gallon.
Natural gas remained at $2.92 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen acknowledged Tuesday that the Fed is puzzled by the persistence of unusually low inflation and that it might have to adjust the timing of its interest rate policies accordingly.
Speaking to a conference of economists, Yellen touched upon key questions the Fed is confronting as it tries to determine why inflation has remained chronically below its target of 2 percent annually.
The Fed chair said officials still expect the forces keeping inflation low to fade eventually.
But she conceded that the Fed may need to adjust its assumptions.
In noting the persistence of low inflation, Yellen suggested that the Fed will take care not to raise rates too quickly.
But she also said the central bank should avoid raising rates too slowly.
Moving too gradually, she suggested, might eventually force the Fed to have to accelerate rate hikes and thereby elevate the risk of a recession.
Most analysts expect the central bank to raise rates in December, for a third time this year, in a reflection of economic improvement.
But the Fed has said its rate hikes will depend on incoming data.
In her speech in Cleveland to the annual conference of the National Association for Business Economics, Yellen went further than she has before in suggesting that the Fed could be mistaken in the assumptions it is making about inflation.
"My colleagues and I may have misjudged the strength of the labor market, the degree to which longer-run inflation expectations are consistent with our inflation objective or even the fundamental forces driving inflation," Yellen said.
The Fed seeks to control interest rates to promote maximum employment and stable prices, which it defines as annual price increases of 2 percent.
While the Fed has met its goal on employment, with the jobless rate at 4.4 percent, near a 16-year low, it has continued to miss its inflation target.
Chronically low inflation can depress economic growth because consumers typically delay purchases when they think prices will stay the same or even decline.
Inflation, which was nearing the 2 percent goal at the start of the year, has since then fallen further behind and is now rising at an annual rate of just 1.4 percent.
Yellen has previously attributed the miss on inflation this year to temporary factors, including a price war among mobile phone companies.
She and other Fed officials have predicted inflation would soon begin rising toward the Fed's target, helped by tight labor markets that will drive up wage gains.
In her remarks Tuesday, Yellen said this outcome of a rebound in inflation is still likely.
But she said the central bank needed to remain alert to the possibility that other forces not clearly understood might continue to keep inflation lower than the Fed's 2 percent goal.
The Fed chair cautioned that if the central bank moved too slowly in raising rates, it could inadvertently allow the economy to become overheated and thus have to raise rates so quickly in the future that it could push the country into a recession.
"It would be imprudent to keep monetary policy on hold until inflation is back to 2 percent," Yellen said.
During a question-and-answer session, Yellen said the Fed would be "looking at inflation very carefully" to determine the timing of upcoming rate hikes.
But she said the data is likely to be difficult to assess, in part because of the effects of the recent devastating hurricanes, which have forced up gasoline prices.
Yellen's remarks came a week after Fed officials left their benchmark rate unchanged but announced that they would start gradually shrinking their huge portfolio of Treasury and mortgage bonds.
Those holdings had grown from purchases the Fed made over the past nine years to try to lower long-term borrowing rates and help the U.S. economy recover from the worst downturn since the 1930s.
The Fed did retain a forecast showing that officials expect to boost rates three times this year.
So far, they have increased their benchmark lending rate twice, in March and June, leaving it at a still-low range of 1 percent to 1.25 percent.
Last week, the Fed said the reductions in its bond holdings would begin in October by initially allowing a modest $10 billion in maturing bonds to roll off the $4.5 trillion balance sheet each month.
Asked about how long-term loan rates might respond to reductions in the Fed's bond portfolio, Yellen cited a study that estimated that the increase in its bond holdings had lowered such rates by about 1 percentage point.
But she said the reduction in the holdings wouldn't likely raise rates by as much as a percentage point given that the Fed intended to keep the size of its balance sheet significantly higher than it was before the financial crisis.
She said any upward pressure on rates would likely be gradual and take place over several years.
Later Thursday, Yellen toured a job training center operated by Cuyahoga Community College and participated in a roundtable with students, faculty and potential employers.
Yellen, who has visited a number of job centers during her time as Fed chair, told the group that job training was especially important now as employers find it harder in a tight labor market to find workers with the necessary skills.
Crutsinger reported from Washington.
U.S. stock indexes finished barely higher Tuesday after a late slump erased most of an early gain.
Technology companies recovered some of the losses they took a day earlier, but energy companies and banks slipped.
Strong gains for software company Red Hat and recoveries for big names like Apple and Facebook helped technology companies move higher.
Cruise lines rose after Carnival had a stronger third quarter than analysts expected.
Small-company stocks continue to set record highs.
With little corporate or economic news to focus on, investors turned their attention to a speech by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen for clues about the Fed's thinking on interest rates.
Yellen told a conference of economists that the Fed is puzzled that inflation remains so low.
While she and other policymakers still think inflation will eventually reach the Fed's 2 percent target, Yellen conceded that the Fed may need to change its assumptions.
Yellen also said the Fed should take care not to raise rates too slowly.
JJ Kinahan, chief strategist for TD Ameritrade, said that was notable.
"That was a little bit stronger language than we've seen before," he said.
Kinahan said investors have concluded over the last two weeks that the Fed will raise interest rates again in December, and Yellen's remarks did nothing to dispel that idea.
In Washington, Senate Republicans said they won't hold a vote on their latest health care bill because it did not have enough votes to pass.
On Wednesday, the Trump administration plans to release an outline of its ideas on changes to the tax code.
With long negotiations likely just beginning, Kinahan said investors don't expect much to get done right away.
"For calendar year 2017, the market is giving Washington a pass on taxes," he said.
"In 2018 that's not going to be the case."
The Standard & Poor's 500 index added 0.18 points to 2,496.84.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which rose as much as 73 points during the day, lost 11.77 points, almost 0.1 percent, to 22,284.32 as McDonald's fell and Chevron went into a late slide.
The Nasdaq composite gained 9.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,380.16 after a drop of 0.9 percent on Monday.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gained 4.91 points, or 0.3 percent, to a record 1,456.86.
Carnival's third-quarter profit and revenue surpassed Wall Street's expectations.
The cruise line raised its annual forecasts and said bookings and prices for next year are higher than they were at this time a year ago.
Carnival gained $1.82, or 2.9 percent, to $65.32 and competitor Royal Caribbean Cruises rose $3.31, or 2.9 percent, to $117.19.
Open-source software maker Red Hat climbed $4.31, or 4.1 percent, to $110.07 after reporting a better-than-expected second quarter.
Chipmaker Nvidia rose after it said several major Chinese companies, including e-commerce giants Alibaba and Baidu, will use its products in data centers and cloud computing platforms.
It added 96 cents to $171.96.
Elsewhere, Apple picked up $2.59, or 1.7 percent, to $153.14 and Facebook rose $1.34 to $164.21.
The director of global sports marketing for athletic apparel maker Adidas was one of 10 people charged in what the U.S. government described as a scheme to match agents and advisers to college basketball players before they became NBA stars.
Four assistant basketball coaches were arrested along with Adidas executive James Gatto.
Adidas fell 2.4 percent in Germany.
Benchmark U.S. crude slid 34 cents to $51.88 a barrel in New York.
Brent crude, the standard for international oil prices, gave up 58 cents to $58.44 a barrel in London.
Chevron gave up 47 cents to $117.52 and Schlumberger fell 83 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $68.82.
Equifax announced the retirement of its chairman and CEO as the credit reporting agency tries to clean up a mess left by a data breach that exposed highly sensitive information about 143 million Americans.
Richard Smith had been the company's CEO since 2005.
The company said Smith won't receive his annual bonus or other benefits until Equifax finishes its investigation into the data breach it disclosed earlier this month.
Two other company executives left on Sept. 15.
Equifax fell early on, but later recovered to finish 96 cents higher at $106.05.
Wholesale gasoline lost 2 cents to $1.70 a gallon.
Heating oil retreated 1 cent to $1.85 a gallon.
Natural gas remained at $2.92 per 1,000 cubic feet.
Bond prices declined.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.23 percent from 2.22 percent.
Gold lost $9.80 to $1,301.70 an ounce.
Silver declined 26 cents to $16.88 an ounce.
Copper fell 2 cents to $2.92 a pound.
The dollar rose to 112.17 yen from 111.61 yen.
The euro fell to $1.1798 from $1.1846.
Germany's DAX rose 0.1 percent and the FTSE 100 in Britain fell 0.2 percent.
France's CAC 40 rose less than 0.1 percent.
Tokyo's Nikkei 225 lost 0.3 percent and the Hang Seng of Hong Kong gained less than 0.1 percent.
The South Korean Kospi declined 0.3 percent.
AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jay
U.S. stock indexes finished barely higher Tuesday after a late slump erased much of an early gain.
Technology companies recovered some of the losses they took a day ago, but energy companies and banks slipped.
On Tuesday:

The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 0.18 points to 2,496.84.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 11.77 points, or almost 0.1 percent, to 22,284.32.
The Nasdaq composite edged up 9.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,380.16.
The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks climbed 4.91 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,456.86.
For the week:

The S&P 500 is down 5.38 points, or 0.2 percent.
The Dow is down 65.27 points, or 0.3 percent.
The Nasdaq is down 46.76 points, or 0.7 percent.
The Russell 200 is up 6.08 points, or 0.4 percent.
For the year:

The S&P 500 is up 258.01 points, or 11.5 percent.
The Dow is up 2,521.72 points, or 12.8 percent.
The Nasdaq is up 997.05 points, or 18.5 percent.
The Russell 200 is up 99.73 points, or 7.3 percent.
Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily Tuesday:

Carnival Corp., up $1.82 to $65.32

The cruise line company raised its annual forecasts after a strong third quarter.
Red Hat Inc., up $4.31 to $110.07

The open-source software company had a better second quarter than analysts had expected.
Equifax Inc., up 96 cents to $106.05

The credit monitoring company, which earlier this month disclosed a large data breach, said Chairman and CEO Richard Smith is retiring.
Darden Restaurants Inc., down $5.43 to $77.71

The restaurant company reported weak sales growth at its Olive Garden chain.
Nvidia Corp., up 96 cents to $171.96

The chipmaker said several major Chinese technology companies, including Alibaba and Baidu, will use its products in data centers.
Ascena Retail Group Inc., up 13 cents to $2.30

The clothing store company had a better quarter than expected.
IHS Markit Ltd., down $4.17 to $44.12

The financial information services company had a strong third quarter, but analysts were concerned about its profit margins.
Axovant Sciences Ltd., down $17.92 to $6.33

The drug development company said its Alzheimer's disease drug intepirdine failed in a late-stage study.
The latest on developments in financial markets (All times local):

4 p.m.

Technology companies notched solid gains on Wall Street, but most other sectors finished lower in a mixed day of trading.
Apple added 1.7 percent Tuesday, while software company Red Hat jumped 4.1 percent after reporting a solid quarter.
The tech sector, still the best-performing part of the market this year, was clawing back some of the ground it lost a day earlier.
Eight of the 11 sectors in the S&P 500 index fell, led by phone companies and materials makers.
The Standard & Poor's 500 edged up a fraction of a point to 2,496.
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 11 points, less than 0.1 percent, to 22,284.
The Nasdaq composite rose 9 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,380.
Small-company stocks did better than the rest of the market.
11:45 a.m.

Stocks are edging higher in midday trading as technology companies recover some of their losses from the day before.
Cruise lines are also trading higher Tuesday after Carnival had a stronger third quarter than analysts expected.
Carnival gained 3.4 percent.
Chipmaker Nvidia rose 1.7 percent, while Apple climbed 1.2 percent.
Credit monitoring company Equifax sank 1.5 percent after announcing the departure of CEO Richard Smith.
Equifax was hit by a data breach that exposed personal information on about 143 million Americans.
The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 1 point to 2,497.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 7 points, less than 0.1 percent, to 22,304.
The Nasdaq added 3 points, less than 0.1 percent, to 6,374.
Bond prices fell.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.24 percent.
9:35 a.m.

Technology stocks were leading a broad gain in early trading on Wall Street, bouncing back after a downturn a day earlier.
Chipmaker Nvidia jumped 4.1 percent in early trading Tuesday, while Apple climbed 1.3 percent.
Software maker Red Hat surged 5.7 percent after reporting a strong quarter.
Credit monitoring company Equifax sank 1.6 percent after announcing the departure of CEO Richard Smith.
Equifax was hit by a data breach that exposed personal information on about 143 million Americans.
The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 5 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,502.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 54 points, or 0.2 percent, to 22,352.
The Nasdaq composite rose 30 points, or 0.5 percent, to 6,402.
Bond prices fell.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.24 percent.
Wheat for Dec. was .25 cent lower at 4.5375 a bushel; Dec. corn fell 1.50 cents at 3.5225 bushel; Dec. oats was off .50 cent at $2.5025 bushel; while Nov. soybeans lost 7.75 cents at $9.6350 a bushel.
Beef mixed and pork was lower on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange October live cattle was off .95 cent at $1.0827 a pound; September feeder cattle rose .10 cent at $1.5057 a pound; while Oct. lean hogs fell 1.07 cents at $.5525 a pound.
Dyson Ltd., the British company best known for its vacuum cleaners, is working on an electric car that it says will be launched by 2020.
In an email to staff Tuesday, Dyson founder and chief engineer James Dyson said he has a team of 400 engineers and others working on the car.
Dyson recently hired a new chief spokesman, Ricardo Reyes, who used to lead communications at Tesla Inc.
It acquired a Michigan-based battery technology company, Sakti3, in 2015.
James Dyson says he's committed to investing $2.4 billion in the project.
He wouldn't release details about the vehicle, citing fierce competition in the auto industry.
Dyson has been working on vehicle technology on and off since 1990, when its engineers designed a filter that could trap diesel pollutants.
Image copyright Pacemaker Image caption Boeing had complained Bombardier got unfair state subsidies from the UK and Canada

The US Department of Commerce has ruled against the aerospace firm Bombardier in its dispute with rival Boeing.
An interim tariff of 219.63% has been proposed on the import of Bombardier's C-Series jet to the US.
Boeing had complained Bombardier got unfair state subsidies from the UK and Canada, helping it win a major order.
The government and trade unions fear the ruling may make Bombardier question remaining in Northern Ireland, where it employs 4,100 people in four locations.
This is not the end of the Bombardier row

Why is Bombardier important to NI?
The case will now be considered by the US International Trade Commission for a final ruling in February.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The history of Bombardier in Northern Ireland

A government spokesperson from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy said they were disappointed in the outcome, but emphasised it was "only the first step in the process".
"Boeing's position in this case is unjustified and frankly not what we would expect of a long-term partner to the UK - as well as damaging the wider global aerospace industry," they added.
Bombardier also criticised the tariff as "absurd and divorced from the reality about the financing of multibillion-dollar aircraft programmes".
But Boeing said the dispute was about "maintaining a level playing field", and said its aim was to make sure that "aerospace companies abide by trade agreements."
There are fears the ruling will jeopardise a major order made last year from US airline Delta - a $5.6bn (4.15bn) deal for up to 125 of the jets.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Parts of Bombardier's C-Series planes are made in Belfast

About 1,000 jobs at the company's Belfast operation are linked to the C-Series, where the wings of the jet are made.
Bombardier - which bought Short Brothers in 1989 - is one of Northern Ireland's largest employers.
Jimmy Kelly, Unite Regional Secretary said the decision to impose a tariff posed a "direct and very serious threat to the 4,500 Bombardier jobs in Belfast" and many more dependent on the company.
The programme is not just important to Bombardier jobs in Belfast, but also 15 smaller aerospace firms in Northern Ireland - and dozens more across the UK - which make components for the wings.
The Northern Ireland Executive and UK Government pledged to invest almost 135m in the establishment of the C-Series manufacturing site.
The programme also received 750m from Quebec's provincial government in 2015 when its fortunes appeared to be ailing.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Government advisers say ageing housing stock is the biggest obstacle to meeting the UK's climate change targets

Homeowners who sell draughty homes could be fined, a report has suggested.
Economic consultancy Frontier Economics says the money raised could underpin government funding for insulating the homes of the least wealthy homeowners.
It is the most radical idea in the report, which also urges interest-free loans and tax and stamp duty rebates for people to insulate their homes.
Frontier warns the government will miss its targets on cutting carbon emissions unless it stops energy waste in homes.
Households 'need help to get warmer home'

'Abysmal' take-up for Green Deal loans

The government said it is considering many options as part of its long-delayed Clean Growth Plan, which is expected soon.
Frontier's report notes that government advisers say ageing housing stock is the biggest obstacle to meeting the UK's climate change targets.
Improving homes also gives a boost to health and comfort and keeps bills down.
But renovating homes is often an expensive hassle.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Green Deal offered households the opportunity to insulate their homes

The report says that, following the collapse of the ill-fated Green Deal home loan scheme, ministers must find new ways of incentivising people to take on improvement work.
The Green Deal was criticised for offering loans at 7% interest.
The report suggests instead offering equity loans at lower than the standard mortgage rate, to be paid back when owners die or move house.
Another idea is to charge differential stamp duty depending on the level of insulation in the property.
Traditionally the Treasury has been unwilling to fund improvements that will increase the value of people's homes, but it's under pressure to be creative to solve the problem.
Infrastructure priority

The report also suggests that people should be tempted to invest in home improvements through a "salary sacrifice" scheme - where part of a person's salary goes towards energy efficient renovation, and they then save on the associated income tax.
Frontier Economics' report was funded by a coalition of groups concerned about housing stock - including the architects' body Riba; the green thinktank e3g; the Institution of Civil Engineers and the electricity group Energy UK.
They all want housing treated as an infrastructure priority.
"It's the package of measures that matters," a spokesman, Ed Matthew, told BBC News.
"We want to stop the government's incremental, short-termist, approach - and treat this like the major infrastructure programme it is after all every home must be zero carbon within 30 years."
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Reuters

Social media site Twitter is trialling longer character limits to help users "easily express themselves".
Twitter currently limits tweets to 140 characters, but has doubled that to 280 characters for a small group of users.
The current character limit was "a major cause of frustration" for some users, the firm said in a blog post.
The firm has been suffering from slowing growth and the shift could be one way for the firm to widen its appeal and attract new users.
"Trying to cram your thoughts into a Tweet - we've all been there, and it's a pain," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
Ms Rosen said the longer character limit was being tested in all languages bar Japanese, Chinese and Korean which she said could convey more information in a single character.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters - we felt it, too.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint," she said.
Analysis, Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter

With constant concerns over hate speech, propaganda bots, and trolling - you might wonder why Twitter is spending its time worrying about doubling the character limit.
Me too, if I'm honest.
But whatever - Jack Dorsey is right to point out that the 140 limit was only ever a technical limitation owing to the limits of text messages, something the service hasn't had to worry about for a long time.
So why not make it a little longer?
It won't be a dramatic change.
Twitter will hope it increases the engagement and attention times of its users.
Marketers will have more characters with which to get their message across, which might make Twitter a bit more cash.
@DaveLeeBBC

Twitter's founder Jack Dorsey was one of the first to try the new limit out, saying it was "a small change, but a big move for us".
But not all users were convinced.
Writer Sarah Kendzior said it was too long.
And The Times journalist Sathnam Sanghera pointed out that US President Donald Trump, famed for his prolific tweeting, could get more characters.
But Twitter said the change could mean people tweet more frequently.
"When people don't have to cram their thoughts into 140 characters and actually have some to spare, we see more people tweeting," Ms Rosen said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Alstom makes TGV high-speed trains

France's Alstom and Germany's Siemens are to merge their rail operations.
The tie-up of the two engineering giants will create "a new European champion in the rail industry", Siemens president Joe Kaeser said.
Siemens makes the inter-city ICE trains that run on German long-distance routes, while Alstom makes the French equivalent, the TGV.
The new group, called Siemens Alstom, will be led by Alstom chief executive Henri Poupart-Lafarge.
In a joint statement, the firms said their businesses were "largely complementary" and the merger would enable customers to benefit from a "larger geographic footprint".
The deal is expected to help the firms compete with China's state-backed operator CRRC.
"The global marketplace has changed significantly over the last few years.
A dominant player in Asia has changed global market dynamics and digitalisation will impact the future of mobility," Mr Kaeser said.
Alstom currently has a presence in markets in the Middle East and Africa, India, and Middle and South America, while Siemens is in China, United States and Russia.
The group headquarters will be in the Paris area, with half of the shares in the new entity owned by Siemens.
The French government, which owns about 20% of Alstom, will shed its stake as part of the deal.
The firms said the deal had already been approved by both their boards.
Image copyright PA

An appeal by Uber against a ruling that its drivers are entitled to benefits including holiday pay is to be heard at the High Court later on Wednesday.
In October, drivers won the right to be classed as workers, rather than self-employed, meaning they are entitled to the minimum wage and paid rest breaks.
The court ruled the idea its 30,000 drivers could be linked by a common platform was "faintly ridiculous".
But Uber insists its drivers like the freedom of being their own boss.
No control

Last year, two drivers, James Farrar and Yaseen Aslam, argued that they were employed by the company but did not have basic workers' rights.
They claimed the company was acting unlawfully by not paying holiday or sick pay.
The pair no longer work for Uber.
Mr Farrar told the BBC: "Uber tell you that you are your own boss, but in reality I don't control the fare.
"If I take a different route other than the one I've been given I'll be penalised.
I'm performance managed through a ratings system and if I hit 4.4 I'm out of a job.
"I don't know who the customer is, so I can't ever develop a customer database that I can work with.
"I can't take the booking myself, so there's very little control."
Being self-employed means you are not subject to workplace rules and your rights are governed by the contract not statutory rights.
As a worker, there must be a contract which requires the driver to carry out duties personally and rights and benefits are guaranteed by the company.
The judgment could threaten to significantly increase the operating costs of companies, like private hire and delivery firms, that use people who work on demand or those in the "gig economy".
Recent estimates suggest more than a million people are working under such arrangements.
Uber says the court's decision was wrong in law and maintains its drivers are independent contractors.
The BBC understands that it will also argue it is no more than an agent putting the driver and his or her customer together.
'Bogusly classing people'

Uber executive Fred Jones told the BBC it was appealing because 80% of its drivers would rather be self-employed than a worker.
When asked why Uber considers its drivers to be independent small businesses he said: "They have complete control and autonomy of how they work on the app.
"So, they can pick how many hours they work, there are no set shifts, there's complete control of how they use it, and it's this flexibility which is the reason why they really enjoy working with Uber."
The company says it has invested in a number of changes, including discounted illness and injury cover, paid waiting time and the ability to cash out fares at any time.
The Independent Workers Union of Great Britain says the case is about whether employers in this economy are allowed to "get away with bogusly classing the people that work for them... in order to avoid giving them basic employment rights".
The court hearing is due to last two days, with judgment reserved to a later date.
Image copyright Heathcliff O'Malley Image caption Sir James Dyson accused the mainstream car industry of polluting the world with diesel emissions

Dyson, the engineering company best known for its vacuum cleaners and fans, plans to spend 2bn developing a "radical" electric car.
The battery-powered vehicle is due to be launched in 2020.
Dyson says 400 staff have been working on the secret project for the past two years at its headquarters in Malmesbury, Wiltshire.
However, the car does not yet exist, with no prototype built, and a factory site is yet to be chosen.
Sir James declined to give further details of the project.
"Competition for new technology in the automotive industry is fierce and we must do everything we can to keep the specifics of our vehicle confidential," he told staff in an email.
Important points that are undecided or secret include the firm's expected annual production total, the cost of the car, or its range or top speed.
Sir James said about 1bn would be spent on developing the car, with another 1bn on making the battery.
Analysis: Richard Westcott, BBC transport correspondent

It was a slightly unusual launch, but then, Sir James Dyson likes to be different.
In a small room above his swanky London shop he told us about his vision for a clean car.
First up, we were treated to an old clip of Blue Peter, from the 90s, where Anthea Turner interviewed him about his new device to clean soot from the exhaust of diesel vehicles... it was the cyclone from his vacuum cleaner, put to a different use.
"That is how long I have wanted to do this," he told us.
In fact he first hatched the idea in the late 1980s.
Since then, he has developed motors and batteries and now he is able to bring all that expertise together in a new, electric car.
He promised that it will be radical and different, because, as he put it, what is the point of making it like any other car?
And he promised that it will not be cheap.
I did ask how much it would be to put down a deposit... he told me he would have to think about it.
Further development work will take place at a former RAF base at Hullavington in Wiltshire, where staff will move to in February.
Sir James also said that his firm's car would look "radical and different", but will not be aimed at the mass market.
The motor is designed and ready to go, he said, but the firm is still designing the car.
Dyson's decision means it is joining the rush within the global car industry to develop and make electric cars.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Dyson hopes to challenge other electric car manufacturers such as Tesla

Some manufacturers such as Nissan, Tesla, Renault, BMW and Hyundai already manufacture them.
Others such as VW, Volvo, Mercedes, Honda and Jaguar Land Rover have announced plans to sell electric or hybrid versions of their existing petrol and diesel engine ranges.
VW, for instance, plans to spend 20bn euros (17.5bn) by 2030 to develop its battery powered vehicles.
Sir James said he had been interested since 1990 in developing filtration technology to stop vehicle diesel emissions polluting the environment.
But as the motor industry had shown no interest in adopting this idea, he would instead join the fast-growing trend to make electric vehicles.
Analysis: Theo Leggett, BBC business correspondent

The electric car market is growing rapidly, but it is also about to become a lot more crowded.
Within the next few years, many new models are due to come on to the market, including Jaguar's Ipace, Porsche's Mission E, Volkswagen's I.D.
family and Mercedes' EQ range.
Tesla also has big plans for its recently launched Model 3.
They will be joining established models such as the Nissan Leaf, the BMW i3, the Renault Zoe and the Tesla Model S.

Dyson clearly sees an opportunity here.
As new designs become available, and prices come down, more consumers will be willing to try electric vehicles.
Policymakers, concerned about air pollution, want them to do just that.
The big question is whether Dyson can muscle in on territory that the major manufacturers are already trying to make their own.
And let's not forget Google's designs on the electric/self-driving market.
Tesla was able to build a new car brand from scratch, but only by producing a design which effectively moved the goalposts and changed people's expectations of what an electric car could provide.
If Dyson wants to play with the big boys, it may have to pull off a similar trick.
Image copyright United Biscuits

The number of Jaffa Cakes has been cut from 12 to 10 in the latest example of packaged food "shrinkflation".
The packs weigh 122 grams rather than 150 grams, but McVitie's has cut the recommended price from 1.15 to 99p.
Twin packs, which now have 20 cakes rather than 24, are now 1.89 rather than 2.19.
"These changes represent the same price per cake, however, pricing ultimately remains at the sole discretion of retailers," the firm said.
Tesco and Sainsbury were both selling a box of 10 for 1.
On online provider Ocado, the boxes were priced at 1.19.
A McVitie's spokesman added: "There is no change in the size, shape or weight of individual cakes in the McVitie's Jaffa Cake range."
That, of course, did not stop aficionados taking to Twitter to express their feelings about the "Jaffa quake".
However, others welcomed the move:

Skip Twitter post by @Amie_ee Im actually glad theyre making Jaffa Cake boxes smaller because now I can feel less guilty when I inevitably binge eat an entire box  Amie (@Amie_ee) September 26, 2017 Report

Earlier this year McVitie's reduced the size of its dark chocolate digestive biscuits from 332g to 300g - a 10% reduction.
It is far from the only company cutting the size of its products rather than raise prices following increases in costs.
In July, the Office for National Statistics said as many as 2,529 products had shrunk in size over the past five years, but were being sold for the same price.
As well as confectionery, these included toothpaste, orange juice and toilet roll.
Jaffa cakes were first produced by McVitie's in 1927.
Contrary to popular belief, the main flavouring in the jam insert is apricot, with an added note of tangerine oil, although they are named after the Jaffa orange.
The company was challenged by Her Majesty's Customs and Excise that a Jaffa cake was a biscuit and therefore subject to VAT.
McVitie's says on its website that it "successfully proved to the courts that a Jaffa cake is indeed a cake, and it is still VAT free to this day".
Image copyright EPA Image caption Equifax's share price has fallen by more than a third since the data breach

US credit report giant Equifax has announced that its chairman and chief executive, Richard Smith, is stepping down with immediate effect.
The move comes as Equifax struggles to rebuild its reputation after it emerged earlier this month that the firm had suffered a massive data breach.
Data on up to 143 million Americans may have been stolen by hackers between mid-May and July.
About 400,000 Britons and a number of Canadians were also affected.
The company said Paulino do Rego Barros, who currently runs the firm's Asia Pacific division, would take over as interim chief executive, while Mark Feidler would serve as non-executive chairman.
Mr Smith said: "At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward."
Equifax said it would undertake a search for a new permanent chief executive, looking at candidates from inside and outside the firm, while Mr Smith had agreed to stay on as an unpaid adviser during the transition.
Chief information officer David Webb and chief security officer Susan Mauldin departed shortly after the firm disclosed the breach.
Equifax faces dozens of legal claims over the breach, which the US Federal Trade Commission is investigating.
Social security numbers, birth dates, addresses and driving licence numbers for up to 143 million Americans were exposed, the Atlanta-based firm has said.
Credit card numbers for about 209,000 Americans and "certain dispute documents with personal identifying information" for some 182,000 Americans were also accessed by the hackers.
Lenders use data amassed by firms like Equifax to assess the credit worthiness of customers seeking to acquire houses, cars and credit cards.
Equifax holds data on more than 820 million consumers as well as information on 91 million businesses.
Senators said the incident shows the need for stronger rules on what companies must disclose about cyber attacks.
They also asked if the Securities and Exchange Commission would take action against executives who sold Equifax stock after the breach was discovered but before the public was informed.
Equifax has said previously the executives in question were not aware of the breach when the sales occurred.
Speaking before a Senate panel on Tuesday, SEC Chair Jay Clayton said it is policy not to confirm or deny investigations, but added: "I'm not ignoring this or other events like it."
Image copyright Getty Images

Travel company Thomas Cook has said it expects the price of Spanish holidays to rise by another 5% to 10% next year because of the weak pound.
Chief executive Peter Fankhauser told the BBC that Spain's renewed popularity because of safety fears elsewhere was also driving prices higher.
"We have not enough beds for all the demand," he said.
But he added that the firm was also seeing evidence that people were turning back to Egypt and Turkey.
Last month, Thomas Cook said it had resumed selling holidays in Tunisia to Britons for the first time since the attack at a resort in Sousse in 2015.
Trips will resume in February 2018, after the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) eased its travel advice.
The FCO previously advised avoiding all but essential visits following the June 2015 beach attack, which killed 38 people, including 30 British tourists.
Bookings up

Mr Fankhauser was speaking as the firm issued a trading statement showing bookings by UK holidaymakers had risen by 8% over the summer, while overall group bookings had gone up by 11%.
The company said its winter programme was 37% sold so far, with UK bookings up 5%.
Mr Fankhauser told the Today programme that both Egypt and Turkey were "wonderful destinations" that offered "great value for money".
He said Thomas Cook tried to inform customers "as best we can" about the potential risks and let them make up their own minds about whether they wanted to go.
Mr Fankhauser said Spanish hoteliers were "taking a bit of an advantage" of increased demand, but they were also investing their higher profits to improve their facilities.
Image copyright Getty Images

Up to 1.4 million low income families are missing out on a top-up to their state pension, the government has said.
The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) is urging people to talk to friends, relatives and neighbours to ensure they are claiming Pension Credit.
Nearly two million people claimed more than 6bn in the benefit in 2015-16.
Yet 3.3bn went unclaimed, according to official figures, so take-up has been static for six years.
Each family entitled to the benefit but failing to claim is missing out on an average of about 2,000 a year.
'Simple'

Guy Opperman, Minister for Pensions and Financial Inclusion, said: "Through a simple check, you could have access to additional money that could make all the difference in day-to-day life.
"Even though we have reduced pensioner poverty close to historically low levels, many older people are still not claiming the support they are entitled to."
Pension Credit is a non-taxable benefit based on a person's income.
The benefit tops up pensioners' weekly income to 159.35 for single people or 243.25 for couples.
Additional amounts may be payable for people with caring responsibilities, severe disabilities or certain housing costs.
Many recent new pensioners who receive the flat-rate state pension have the benefit wrapped into their regular pension.
Caroline Abrahams, charity director at Age UK, said: "It is extremely worrying that there has been no progress in the benefit take up figures despite the number of UK pensioners in poverty now standing at 1.9 million.
"We are dismayed that despite so many pensioners struggling financially.
We know that many of those missing out simply are not aware they could entitled to extra support.
Others are aware of the benefits but feel too embarrassed or proud to put in a claim, and some have previously put in an unsuccessful claim or been put off by the claiming process which they feel is too complicated or intrusive."
Image copyright Getty Images

British Airways has launched an investigation after a staff member posted an offensive rant on the social app Snapchat.
The flight attendant filmed herself before working on a flight to Nigeria.
She mocked Nigerian accents and made lewd remarks about body parts.
A concerned member of staff who saw the video shared it with the Daily Mail.
BA said: "We expect the utmost professionalism from our staff when they are representing British Airways.
"We will not tolerate offensive comments about our customers and will always take the appropriate action."
In the video - captioned "I can't cope with this flight" - the woman can be heard putting on a fake Nigerian accent.
"All the Nigerians are gonna be there like 'gimme Coca Cola, gimme me beef, why you have no beef left?
I want beef'," she says.
Referring in explicit language to the size of Nigerian men's genitals, she then goes on to claim that all the Nigerian passengers will ask for upgrades.
She can also be heard complaining that she has to work on a Friday evening while others are drinking.
Many in Nigeria have used social media to react to the flight attendant's comments.
Alao Abayomi said: "Even if we like free stuff, that does not mean you rub our noses in it.
"The money they make in Nigeria alone, is enough for us to request more than upgrades.
Please let her bosses upgrade her punishment to sack level."
Image copyright Getty Images

Consumers need to hunt for deals as they do on the High Street when using switching websites for energy, holidays or insurance, a review has found.
Price comparison websites worked best for car insurance and worst for broadband, the study by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said.
Consumers should use a variety of sites to get the best deals, it said.
The CMA said it was investigating one website over contracts that risked raising home insurance prices.
A spokesman for Comparethemarket.com said: "We operate some simple contractual arrangements with home insurers to ensure that our customers always get the lowest available price.
We welcome the opportunity to discuss this further with the CMA."
Andrea Coscelli, CMA chief executive, said it was "vital" that people benefitted from using comparison sites given that most have used one.
"The good news is that more than 90% of the people we surveyed were very or fairly satisfied with the sites they used.
But we have also found that improvements are needed to help people get even better deals."
Tips for using price comparison websites

Image copyright Getty Images

Choose carefully between comparison sites, like you would any retailer

Not all sites are the same, so try more than one if you can

Check how the site has ordered results

Source: CMA

Commission

Price comparison websites offer best buy tables and, increasingly, automated switching services that do not charge a fee to consumers.
Instead, companies often pay a fee of about 30 to a site for each new customer they gain.
The CMA study into what it calls Digital Comparison Tools (DCTs) looked at sites offering price comparisons for car insurance, home insurance, energy, broadband, flights, and credit cards.
Despite a general clean bill of health, the CMA raised concerns including:

Sites risk breaking equality laws by not doing all they can to make tools user-friendly for vulnerable people

The need for more explanation on what is done with personal data

Potential issues with the presentation of excess amounts on insurance deals

One site's contract that limits insurers' ability to offer cheaper deals on other comparison sites - possibly resulting in higher home insurance prices for consumers

The final point has led to the launch of an investigation against one site.
It is against the law for a site to stop businesses offering cheaper deals elsewhere.
Confidence?
The CMA has detailed a template for these sites to ensure they deal with customers fairly.
Last year, the CMA's review of the energy sector found that more than a third of the 7,000 people it asked did not realise switching suppliers of gas and electricity was an option.
Alex Neill, from consumer group Which?, said: "When shopping around via comparison websites or apps, consumers should be confident that they can find the best deal for them and that their personal data will be used responsibly.
All regulators must ensure businesses abide by the rules and customers get good outcomes, or be ready to take action."
Recent proposals from regulators have included a plan from Ofcom to allow mobile phone users to switch operators by sending a text to the provider they want to leave.
Energy regulator Ofgem said it was considering a trial that would allow households to enter only their postcode and current supplier into a "digital deal checker" to view the cheapest tariff, and a clickable option on all price comparison websites to ensure customers saw prices in the whole of the market, not just preferred suppliers.
Image copyright Getty Images

There has been a big rise in the number of working mothers in England over the past two decades, figures show.
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) says 4.9 million women were working last year while looking after children - up 1.2 million since 1996.
Back then, 62% of mothers with dependent children were in work, either full- or part-time.
Now, 21 years on, the employment rate among this group of mothers in England has risen to 74%.
There has been a particularly big jump in the employment rate among mothers with children aged three or four, from 56% to 65%.
ONS spokeswoman Emily Glastonbury said the continued rise in the number of working mothers had been a "major feature" of the labour market in England.
"Reasons for this might include more flexible working practices, shared parental leave and changes to government policy on the availability of childcare," she added.
Among the other findings of the ONS were that:

in 2017, 72% of families with both a mother and father present ("couple" families) had both parents in work

Where this was the case, fathers were usually working full-time, while most mothers worked part-time

The rate of part-time working among fathers with young children (aged three or four) rose from 3.9% in 1997 to 6.9% in 2017

Single parents were less likely to work than parents in a couple.
The ONS found that, currently, 72% of single fathers and 69% of single mothers are working, while the employment rates for fathers and mothers in a couple are 93% and 75% respectively.
The figures, looking at men and women in England aged between 16 and 64, were estimates based on two surveys - the Labour Force Survey and the Annual Population Survey.
Image copyright PA Image caption The UK's first subsidy free solar farm at Flitwick in Bedfordshire also opened on Tuesday

More than half the UK's electricity came from low carbon sources this summer, the National Grid says, making it the "greenest" summer on record.
Between late June and September, 52% of electricity generation was met by low carbon sources, compared with about 35% four years ago.
The Grid has launched software that forecasts the carbon intensity of electricity up to two days ahead.
It hopes this will help people to understand and control energy use.
Shifting the timing of activities such as running a dishwasher or charging electric vehicles could help relieve pressure on the energy system, reduce the need to use back-up fossil fuel plants, and potentially reduce bills for households.
The software combines National Grid's knowledge of the energy system with weather data from the Met Office to forecast the share of renewable and non-renewable energy on the grid over the next 48 hours and the resulting carbon emissions.
It is hoped that technology companies will then develop apps and software that could help people control when and what type of energy they use.
Duncan Burt, from National Grid, said: "Clear and concise information that can tell you in advance when's best to turn on the washing machine, load the dishwasher or charge your car for example, is a step in the right direction towards a low carbon future.
"This technology puts people at the heart of it, helping everyone to use power when it's greenest, and likely, more cost efficient."
'Landmark development'

Meanwhile, the UK's first subsidy-free solar farm was officially opened on Tuesday.
The 10 megawatt Clayhill solar farm, near Flitwick in Bedfordshire, will generate enough electricity for around 2,500 homes and save 4,452 tonnes of carbon.
In addition to the rows of panels there are five battery storage units, to maximise use of power from the solar farm by allowing electricity to be stored and fed into the grid when it is needed.
Steve Shine, executive chairman of Clayhill's developer Anesco, said: "For the solar industry, Clayhill is a landmark development and paves the way for a sustainable future, where subsidies are no longer needed or relied upon."
Image copyright Getty Images

Shares in Card Factory have dived over 18% after higher costs cut into the retailer's half-year profits.
The FTSE 250 firm reported a 14% drop in profits to 23.2m, blaming currency moves, higher wage costs and investment in the business for the fall.
The weaker pound has affected the retailer, as about half the goods it buys are priced in dollars.
Card Factory added that its full-year profit would reflect the "headwinds" felt in the first half of the year.
Sarah Johns, retail analyst at GlobalData, said the greetings card retailer needed to focus on its online business.
"The retailer is right to continue its aggressive expansion; however, with high street footfall declining and online the fastest growing channel in the UK greetings card market over the next five years, Card Factory must invest in its multichannel offer," she said.
"The retailer continued to grow sales via online during the period, but has some way to go in becoming an established player in the online personalisation card category, with Moonpig.com and WH Smith-owned funkypigeon.com key threats."
On the wider market, the FTSE 100 closed 15.55 points lower at 7,285.74.
WPP was one of the biggest fallers on the index after Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the advertising giant to "equal-weight" from "overweight".
The pound fell 0.3% against the dollar to $1.34220 but rose 0.3% against the euro to 1.14010 euros.
Image copyright Reuters

The price of oil has fallen back on Tuesday after earlier hitting a two-year high.
Rising demand and geopolitical worries had fuelled the increase, along with indications that production cuts by Opec members are starting to bite.
Brent rose about 4% to just short of $60, its highest since July 2015, point, before dropping back to $58.59.
US West Texas crude went above $52 a barrel before falling back to $51.87.
The oil market has been in a downturn for almost three years.
But the head of BP's oil trading division in Asia, Janet Kong, told a Financial Times conference the market was now "at a juncture".
As well as increased demand, especially from China, Turkey's threat to disrupt oil flows from Iraq's Kurdistan region, helped push up prices on Monday.
Turkey has said it could cut off a pipeline that carries oil from northern Iraq to the global market, putting more pressure on the Kurdish autonomous region over its independence referendum.
"If this boycott call proves successful, a good 500,000 fewer barrels of crude oil per day would reach the market," analysts at Commerzbank said.
Meanwhile, Opec, Russia and several other producers have cut production by about 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) since the start of 2017, helping oil prices rise by about 15% in the past three months.
At an Opec meeting on Friday, several countries said output curbs were having the desired impact on the market and price.
Kuwaiti oil minister Essam al-Marzouq said the cuts had reduced global crude stocks to their five-year average, which is Opec's target.
The UK is a slightly more positive place to be than it was last year, an official survey suggests.
The UK's level of life satisfaction, as measured by the Office for National Statistics (ONS), has edged up to a record 7.7 out of 10.
Last year, the level was 7.6.
"Average ratings of life satisfaction and happiness were at their highest levels in the year ending March 2017 since we began measuring personal well-being in 2011," said the ONS.
The country's happiness level was 7.5 out of 10, a slight increase.
The survey also measures how anxious people are and whether they feel that what they do in life is worthwhile.
These figures were unchanged at 2.9 and 7.9 respectively.
As in previous years, people in Northern Ireland continued to report the highest levels of satisfaction and happiness, at 7.9 and 7.7, both above the UK average.
They were also less anxious than elsewhere in the UK, with a score of 2.6, and seem to lead more worthwhile lives, notching up a level of 8.1.
Matthew Steel of the ONS said the figures might prove surprising to some people, since they came during a period of political change and uncertainty in the UK.
However, he added: "It's worth noting that employment rates rose during the period covered by this report, and other ONS analysis showed people perceiving an improvement in their own financial situations and in the overall economy.
"These are factors we believe may account for some people's increased sense of personal well-being."
Image copyright PA

Labour has said it would force bookmakers to pay a compulsory levy to help treat problem gamblers.
Deputy leader Tom Watson said the cash would be used for treatment to end the "destructive cycle of addiction".
Speaking at the party conference in Brighton, he urged gambling firms to "stop targeting vulnerable people and start acting properly".
The Association of British Bookmakers said it wouldn't oppose an "appropriate levy" to help treat gambling addicts.
Labour has vowed to tackle Britain's "hidden epidemic of gambling addiction", and earlier this month proposed a ban on adverts for betting firms on football shirts.
Mr Watson returned to the theme in his speech to delegates on Tuesday, saying some companies are "deliberately targeting our poorest communities even as hundreds of thousands of lives are ruined by addiction".
"Gambling addiction is an illness and it's about time it was taken seriously," he said.
He announced a review which will also examine the ability of the NHS to offer mental health services to gambling addicts.
'Working together'

A 2015 report by the Gambling Commission estimated the number of "problem gamblers" to be between 300,000 to 430,000 people.
It defined this as "gambling to a degree that compromises, disrupts or damages family, personal or recreational pursuits".
Currently, gambling companies make voluntary contributions to the charity GambleAware to help pay for education, research, and treating gambling addiction.
But Labour will consider replacing this with a compulsory system.
The Association of British Bookmakers said it backed an "evidence-based approach to helping problem gambling in the UK and would support Mr Watson's idea of a review, if it facilitated this".
A spokesman added: "We also would not oppose an appropriate, compulsory levy on the gambling industry to fund problem gambling treatment, as we have long argued that the gambling industry needs to work together to reduce the number of problem gamblers and address the fact that most problem gamblers move between different forms of gambling."
Also on day three of Labour's conference in Brighton, shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth called for a 500m winter bailout for the NHS.
Labour say the extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care.
The party has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and says a winter bailout could be paid for through this.
The government said it has "robust plans in place" for winter which are supported by "an extra 100m for A&E departments and 2bn funding for the social care system".
Have you had issues with gambling?
What help has been available to you?
Share your experiences with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright Pacemaker Image caption Financial penalties could be imposed, which could jeopardise a major order from US airline Delta

Two rival aerospace firms have been urged by the government to negotiate a deal in a trade dispute that threatens manufacturing jobs in Belfast.
Canadian firm Bombardier is to find out if it will suffer financial penalties over a trade dispute with Boeing.
Boeing alleges Bombardier got unfair state subsidies from the UK and Canada.
Northern Ireland Secretary James Brokenshire said the government's support of Bombardier did not constitute unfair support.
He was speaking after meeting members of the trade union, Unite, in Belfast ahead of a decision on the complaint from the US Commerce Department.
The American firm's complaint, lodged in April, claimed Bombardier was selling its C-Series jet below cost in the United States.
Financial penalties could be imposed, which would deal a blow to Bombardier.
They could potentially jeopardise a major order made last year from US airline Delta - a $5.6bn (4.15bn) deal for up to 125 of the jets.
About 1,000 jobs at the company's Belfast operation are linked to the C-Series.
The company - which bought Short Brothers in 1989 - is one of Northern Ireland's most important employers.
Case against Bombardier?
The US trade investigation to which Bombardier is being subjected is a complex, multi-stage process.
It involves the interplay of two government agencies, the Department of Commerce and the US International Trade Commission (USITC).
The USITC effectively ruled there was an arguable case against Bombardier, moving the complaint to the next stage.
Now, it is up to the Department of Commerce to make a preliminary finding on whether Bombardier has in fact received subsides, or is selling below cost.
Read more: Bombardier-Boeing dispute explained

Prime Minister Theresa May raised concerns about the possible implications of the ruling in a telephone call with President Donald Trump earlier this month.
The government and trade unions fear it might even make Bombardier question remaining in Northern Ireland, where it employs 4,100 people in four locations.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The history of Bombardier in Northern Ireland

The wings of the C-Series are made at a purpose-built 520m factory at Queen's Island.
The programme is not just important to Bombardier jobs in Belfast, but also 15 smaller aerospace firms in NI - and dozens more across the UK - which make components for the wings.
The Northern Ireland Executive and UK Government pledged to invest almost 135 million in the establishment of the C-Series manufacturing site.
The programme received 750m from Quebec's provincial government in 2015 when its fortunes appeared to be ailing.
Delays and cost over-runs in bringing the passenger plane to market almost bankrupted Bombardier, which has had to axe jobs worldwide as part of a survival plan.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Parts of Bombardier's C-Series planes are made in Belfast

The Department of Commerce could announce a preliminary tariff on the C-Series, raising the cost of importing the plane to the United States.
That should not have a huge immediate practical impact as it will be the spring of 2018 before Bombardier delivers any C-Series to Delta, its US customer.
If the finding does go against Bombardier, the investigation moves to the next stage, with attention switching back to the USITC for its final ruling.
The role of the USITC at this stage is to assess if damage has been caused to a US company, in this case Boeing, as a result of the subsides or below cost selling.
This verdict, due to be delivered in February 2018, will be the key one.
But even that may not be the end of the process.
USITC determinations can be appealed to the US Court of International Trade or, as this is a case involving Canada, to a disputes panel of the North American Free Trade Agreement (Nafta).
Ultimately the government of Canada could pursue a case against the US at the World Trade Organisation.
Image copyright Getty Images

The messaging service WhatsApp has been disrupted in China as the government steps up security ahead of a Communist Party meeting next month.
Users have faced problems with the app for more than a week with services dropping in and out.
At times, it has been completely blocked and only accessible via virtual private networks (VPNs) which circumvent China's internet firewall.
WhatsApp is Facebook's only product allowed to operate in mainland China.
Facebook's main social media service and its Instagram image sharing app are not available on the mainland.
Services disrupted

The BBC's China based correspondents said the WhatsApp messaging service started going offline more than a week ago.
A test of its services on Tuesday showed users in China could not send video messages or photographs to people outside China.
The disruption follows restrictions on WhatsApp video chats and photographs in July, which were later lifted.
The tightening of online censorship comes as China steps up security ahead of the Communist Party's national congress which is held every five years.
"The run-up period to a gathering is normally a time of greater restrictions of all kinds to assure that the critical Party Congress is held under ideal social conditions and is not disrupted", Robert Lawrence Kuhn, long-time advisor to China's leaders and multinational corporations told the BBC.
However, he said it is not yet clear whether the restrictions will be relaxed as has happened after previous party congresses, adding that many analysts do not believe they will be.
WhatsApp has declined to comment on the latest clampdown.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption WeChat is the most popular messaging service in China

Analysis - Stephen McDonell, BBC China correspondent, Beijing

Last week word started spreading around other platforms "Is WhatsApp blocked?"
The replies would come in: "You need to use a VPN".
Then the VPNs were being blocked.
Welcome to online China in the run-up to the Communist Party Congress.
Taking out WhatsApp has no impact on most Chinese people.
They don't use it.
The unrivalled king of cyberspace in this country is WeChat (or, in Chinese, Weixin )

You would really struggle to find somebody here not using WeChat to send messages, share photos, swap locations, flirt, read news and pay for pretty much everything.
This all-encompassing app at the centre of people's lives is available for the Communist Party to spy on the entire population.
WhatsApp is not - at least not to the same extent.
So, during this sensitive time leading up to the once-in-five-years Party Congress, those with responsibility for censoring social media are nervous.
They worry that somebody may use an app beyond their complete control to, for example, organise a protest or post a funny photo of President Xi Jinping and for this to somehow go under their radar.
Tech crackdown

WhatsApp provides end-to-end encryption which ensures only the sender and recipient can view the content of messages.
It also prevents Facebook from knowing what is said in any text, voice and video conversation being communicated on WhatsApp.
"China has shown little tolerance to encryption especially on platforms that can be used to share materials or potential propaganda," Bill Taylor-Mountford, Asia Pacific vice president for LogRhythm told the BBC.
The latest disruption to WhatsApp appears to be part of a broader crackdown on the internet and online content in China.
On Monday, China's cyber watchdog handed down maximum penalties to some of the country's top technology firms including Tencent, Baidu and Weibo for failing to properly censor online content.
The penalties were imposed for failing to remove fake news and pornography, as well as content that authorities said "incites ethic tension" and "threatens social order".
Video

US firm Planet Labs makes satellites you could hold in your hands, and has more in orbit than anyone else.
"We thought that we could do space a little bit differently," says Planet Labs' co-founder, Will Marshall.
Read the full article at The Disruptors - The new space race

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Hans Schauerte
Video

The holiday ritual of sending a postcard home from a trip is dying, a closing UK postcard publisher says.
We ask people whether they agree.
'If we soften up, our readers will go'

Known as the Private Eye of the tech world The Register loves to satirise industry giants - and it's paying off.
Video

Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise.
He did not say whether he would join them on the picket line.
Video

A family-run hardware shop has been celebrating 150 years in business.
Goldings in Bedford High Street, first opened its doors in 1867 and has survived the launch of DIY superstores and the rise of internet shopping.
Its former owner, 71-year-old Victor Warner, who has been working there since 1961, has been sharing his secrets to business success.
Video

As the global population grows and more of us are eating meat and fish, there are concerns that the world's resources can't keep up.
Currently, many farmed animals and fish are fed fishmeal, which is made of wild-caught fish.
These could be threatened if demand for fishmeal intensifies.
Jason Drew is an entrepreneur and environmentalist.
He has found a way to turn food waste into a maggot-based animal feed, which could offer a sustainable alternative.
His company has just won the Global Champion Award from The Food Chain on BBC World Service.
Video

A major Vauxhall distribution centre is marking 50 years since its opening.
Vauxhall Parts, in Toddington Road, Luton, was one of the largest facilities in the country when it opened in 1967.
BBC News takes a look at the site, then and now.
Video

With global population set to top 10 billion by 2050, the UN says agricultural output needs to rise by 70%.
And Africa will be key as it is home to two-thirds of the world's uncultivated arable land.
The BBC's Taurai Maduna has been to South Africa's Western Cape to see how drones and data analytics are set to change the game.
Image copyright Reuters

Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has revealed he uses an Android-powered smartphone, rather than a Windows one.
"Recently, I actually did switch to an Android phone," he said, speaking on Fox News Sunday.
Microsoft's own Windows-powered phones have failed to make a significant impact on the smartphone market, which is dominated by devices running Google's Android operating system.
However, Mr Gates said he had installed lots of Microsoft apps on his phone.
When asked whether he also had an iPhone, perhaps as a secondary device, he replied: "No, no iPhone."
He did not reveal which particular smartphone he currently uses.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system was not widely adopted

Microsoft struggled to make a success of its own mobile operating system, Windows Phone.
In 2014, the software giant paid $7.2bn (5.5bn) for Nokia's handset business, but Windows-powered phones accounted for fewer than 1% of global smartphone sales in 2016.
Microsoft's latest operating system, Windows 10, can power smartphones in addition to laptops, tablets and desktop computers.
However, few Windows 10 smartphones have been released.
In April, Microsoft started selling a customised version of Samsung's Galaxy 8 smartphone in its US stores.
"Microsoft's strategy under its current chief executive Satya Nadella is to make Microsoft apps and services widely available on Android and iPhone," said Ian Fogg, an analyst at the tech consultancy IHS Markit.
"That's where their customers are these days."
The "Microsoft Edition" phone comes with the firm's apps such as Office, Outlook email and its voice assistant Cortana included.
"It used to be putting the Windows operating system on everyone's phone was a priority, but now it's about selling services such as Office and Outlook email," said Mr Fogg.
"To do that, you have to make those services available on every device."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption A model displays the "Lesedi La Rona" diamond at Sotheby's in New York

The world's second-largest gem-quality diamond has been sold to a London jeweller for $53m (39.5m).
Laurence Graff, chairman of Graff Diamonds, bought the diamond privately after it failed to meet its reserve price at an auction last year.
The 1,111-carat stone was recovered by Canadian firm Lucara Diamond Corp in Botswana two years ago.
Lucara said the price was an improvement on the highest bid received at Sotheby's in June 2016.
The diamond is named "Lesedi La Rona", which means "our light" in Botswana's Tswana language.
The stone was first formed between 2.5 to three billion years ago and is roughly the size of a tennis ball.
Image copyright Graff Diamonds Image caption A team of cutters will work out the best way to maximize the stone's potential

As well as its size, the diamond has been certified as being of "exceptional quality and transparency" by the Gemological Institute of America.
Mr Graff said "The stone will tell us its story, it will dictate how it wants to be cut."
The company says it will be scanned using state-of-the-art 3D equipment that searches for inclusions - small imperfections in the heart of the stone - to decide how the diamond will be polished.
Then an expert team will examine the diamond using microscopes to pick up and navigate any further pinpoint inclusions.
They will then work out how to cut the diamond and into how many individual stones.
Graff acquired another 373-carat diamond that was originally part of "Lesedi La Rona" earlier this year.
Image copyright Sotheby's Image caption The Lesedi la Rona is the largest gem-quality rough diamond to be discovered in more than a century

The company says it will cut the smaller diamond first and with the knowledge gained from that, they will decide how to work on the larger gem.
The "Lesedi La Rona" is the largest gem-quality diamond discovered in more than a century, and the second-largest ever.
The largest was the 3,106-carat Cullinan Diamond, discovered in South Africa in 1905.
Graff described the stone as "the world's most valuable rough diamond".
Image copyright Adam Bradford/Jordan Swain Image caption Business partners Adam Bradford (l) and Jordan Swain on a fact-finding mission in Wadi Rum, Jordan

A "greed is good" mentality no longer holds sway for the new generation of job candidates.
Instead, they want to join a firm that offers them a good quality of life, rather than just a healthy pay packet.
Londoner Adam Bradford and Californian Jordan Swain decided to set up their own business after struggling to find one which offered the right work-life balance.
The pair, who met on Instagram, have visited almost 30 cities on four continents to do research for Bradford Swain, their social enterprise consultancy.
Jordan says going it alone means they are able to work anywhere.
"We enjoy our ability to work from a cafe on a terrace in Morocco, from the beach in Kenya or from a hot-desk in central London if we need to," he says.
Image copyright Eva-Katalin Image caption Many young workers want the opportunity to travel with their job

There are a growing number of people like Adam and Jordan who are happy to go it alone.
And many firms are offering additional perks to attract and keep staff.
But such extras aren't always as good as they appear.
"I have spoken to people whose companies provided amazing perks - meals, healthcare and even alcohol if they had a party at home," says Dr Sandi Mann, senior psychology lecturer at the University of Central Lancashire.
"The downside is that they feel owned by the company and like they are expected to devote their life to it.
They start to have less and less of a life 'outside' and work can become all consuming," she warns.
With that in mind, we took a look at some of the best ones.
Free holidays

Who?
Airbnb, Macildowie

Image copyright Macildowie Image caption Row Williams, a senior recruitment consultant at Macildowie, is living the high life on a free trip to the Grand Canyon

Airbnb, an accommodation rental website, gives its US employees a yearly allowance of up to $2,000 (1,500; 1,700 euros) to stay in any of its properties around the world.
The firm was voted the best company to work for in 2016 on employer review website Glassdoor, with the travel perk seen as one of the most attractive aspects.
Row Williams is a senior consultant at Midlands-based recruitment firm Macildowie, which also offers free holidays as an employee incentive.
She has won two trips to New York and four trips to Las Vegas as a reward for hitting targets.
Row says such holidays encourage employee loyalty: "After you've been on one trip you don't want to miss out in the future, so you feel like you need to work even harder to get onto the next one."
Unlimited paid holiday leave

Who?
Netflix, LinkedIn, Virgin Management

Image copyright molchanovdmitry Image caption Some companies allow staff to take as much holiday as they want

Netflix pioneered the concept of unlimited holiday.
"Our vacation policy is take vacation.
We don't have any rules or forms around how many weeks per year," the firm says on its website.
Likewise, networking site LinkedIn offers its US staff unlimited discretionary time off, which it claims gives them "more flexibility and a sense of empowerment".
When Sir Richard Branson heard about the policy he decided to follow suit.
Virgin Management - the investment and brand licensing part of his empire - brought in unlimited leave in 2014.
Sharron Pomells, people operations director at Virgin Management, said the decision had received "a great reaction" from staff.
But only a fraction of people who work for Virgin are in this division - 180 people - and it hasn't yet spread to other parts of the business.
Neither Virgin Management nor LinkedIn could provide figures of how many workers had taken up the perk.
And while unlimited holiday may sound incredible, the reality could be somewhat different.
Writing for the World Economic Forum, emotional intelligence expert Dr Travis Bradberry says: "Freedom gives people such a strong sense of ownership and accountability that, like business owners, many end up taking no vacation at all."
Egg Freezing

Who?
Apple and Facebook

Image copyright IPGGutenbergUKLtd Image caption Apple and Facebook offer to cover the cost of some fertility treatments

Apple and Facebook came up with a controversial solution to a notorious problem for tech companies - how to attract female workers to tech firms.
They offered to pay up to $20,000 (15,000) towards their US female workers storing eggs, if covered by their insurance plans.
"We want to empower women at Apple to do the best work of their lives as they care for loved ones and raise their families," Apple said in a statement in 2015.
Freezing their eggs is one way for a woman to potentially have children later in life, or keep their options open until they are ready.
The schemes attracted criticism when they became public, with some saying they put pressure on women to defer having a family.
And the success rate for egg freezing is not particularly high - in the UK, the pregnancy rate for transferring frozen embryos was 22.2% in 2014.
Bringing your dog to work

Who?
Lots of employers, including Google and Mars Petcare

Image copyright Hubble Image caption Hubble employee Varun with Darwin the Shih Tzu

It may not be ideal for cat lovers or allergy sufferers, but one boss says having a Shih Tzu in the office has had a "sensational" effect on his workforce.
"Judging by the figures, pets will be even more popular than things we generally see as workplace essentials, like showers, by 2018," says Agarwal Tushar, co-founder of digital office space platform Hubble.
Dogs are a regular fixture in the office for 8% of UK employees, according to research by Reed.co.uk.
Tech companies and pet-food firms are most likely to offer the perk.
Google is famously staffed by dog-lovers and the search engine even mentions the policy in its code of conduct, saying: "We like cats, but we're a dog company, so as a general rule we feel cats visiting our offices would be fairly stressed out."
However, employees have to check with their colleagues first before bringing in a canine companion.
Whether it's free holidays, time off or office dogs, the blurring between home and work life is a growing feature of many people's jobs.
But psychologists warn against the possible downsides too.
"Everyone needs to be off duty sometimes - downtime is essential," says Dr Sandi Mann.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption The UN and World Bank warn millions of pupils are not learning even basic literacy and numeracy

Six out of 10 children and teenagers in the world are failing to reach basic levels of proficiency in learning, warns a hard-hitting report from the United Nations.
The UN describes the findings as "staggering" and representing a "learning crisis".
Much of the focus of international aid in education has been on the lack of access to schools, particularly in poorer countries in sub-Saharan Africa or in conflict zones.
But this new research from the Unesco Institute for Statistics warns of the lack of quality within schools - saying more than 600 million school-age children do not have basic skills in maths and reading.
Huge divide

In sub-Saharan Africa, the research suggests 88% of children and adolescents will enter adulthood without a basic proficiency in reading.
And in central and southern Asia, 81% are not reaching an adequate level in literacy.
The report warns any ambitions for social and economic progress will be stifled without a literate and numerate population.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption The quality of schools and teaching needs much more scrutiny, say the reports

In North America and Europe, only 14% of young people leave education at such a low level.
But, the UN research suggests, only 10% of the world's school-age children live in these more affluent, developed regions.
"Many of these children are not hidden or isolated from their governments and communities - they are sitting in classrooms," said Silvia Montoya, director of the Unesco Institute for Statistics.
She said the report was a "wake-up call for far greater investment in the quality of education".
This problem of "schooling without learning" was also highlighted by the World Bank in a report this week.
It warned that millions of young people in low- and middle-income countries were receiving an inadequate education that would leave them trapped in low-paid and insecure jobs.
Image copyright World Bank Image caption Pupils in South East Asia are among high achievers by global standards

The president of the World Bank, Jim Yong Kim, introducing the report, said the failures in education for so many represented "a moral and economic crisis".
Researchers warned of pupils in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Nicaragua who after years in school were unable to do simple sums or read simple sentences.
A basic level of proficiency in primary school was reached by 99% of pupils in Japan, but by only 7% of pupils in Mali, they said.
There were also wide gulfs within countries.
At the end of primary school in Cameroon, only 5% of girls from the poorest families were at a level to continue with their education, compared with 76% of girls from wealthy families, the report said.
What's to blame?
The World Bank study examined the factors underlying such poor achievement:

It warned that in the poorest countries many pupils arrived at school in no condition to learn

Many had suffered from malnutrition and ill health, the World Bank said, and the deprivation and poverty of their home lives could mean they began school physically and mentally underdeveloped

There were also concerns about the quality of teaching, with too many teachers not being particularly well educated themselves

There was also a problem of teacher absenteeism in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa, which has been linked to teachers not being regularly paid

Image copyright World Bank Image caption Poorer countries need more testing in schools and not less, says the World Bank

The World Bank's chief economist, Paul Romer, said there had to be a more honest admission that for many children being in school did not mean worthwhile lessons.
He said progress would depend on recognising that "the facts about education reveal a painful truth".
Lack of testing

The report warned of a lack of scrutiny over standards and the absence of even basic information about pupil achievement.
While the debate in Western countries has been about excessive testing, the World Bank said that in poorer countries, there was "too little measurement of learning, not too much".
Image copyright UN Photo Image caption The problem of low achievement is worst in sub-Saharan Africa

But the researchers also pointed to countries that had made progress, such as South Korea and Vietnam.
And at the United Nations last week there were international pledges for greater investment in education.
"I have decided to set education as a top priority of French development and foreign policy," said French President Emmanuel Macron.
Former UK Prime Minister and UN education envoy Gordon Brown said he wanted the Global Partnership for Education, which channels aid to education projects, to have funds worth $2bn (1.5bn) by 2020.
The European Union announced that 8% of its humanitarian budget would be spent on education.
For children missing school because of the conflict in Syria, the Education Above All Foundation and Unicef, along with other charities, committed an extra $60m (45m).
"Funding our education goal will do far more than place a child at a desk.
It will unleash opportunity and hope," said Mr Brown.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image caption Matthew Barnes says Aldi's "contract" with customers is to have the lowest price in the market

Aldi may have seen its UK profits drop last year, but shoppers spent an extra 1bn there compared with 2016.
We meet the man driving the discount supermarket's rapid growth.
Aldi doesn't sell a very wide range of products so the bar is set high for any new one to make it to the shelves.
It's the UK chief executive Matthew Barnes who does the final test in the sleek tasting kitchens at its Atherstone HQ.
He not only personally approves every new product, but sets the price for it, too.
This forensic approach appears to be working.
Last year sales rose 13.5%.
It's the sort of growth that the big established players can only dream of these days.
Right now, it's opening more than one store a week with the aim of having a thousand stores by 2022.
And often in places which already have one Aldi, or sometimes even more.
Take Glascote, in Tamworth, Staffordshire, just down the road from its Warwickshire HQ.
There's an Aldi close to the station but the company recently opened a new one just a couple of miles away.
Says Mr Barnes: "Our first store has been there for more than ten years and was really over-trading.
It was really, really busy and we couldn't expand that store.
So, we opened this store down the road.
Meanwhile, sales at the first store have dropped a small amount.
But, overall sales in Tamworth are up more than 80% and that's absolutely the right thing on every level for us to do.
"More and more customers are doing their main shop in Aldi.
It gives us the confidence to invest in the UK because the potential for growth is fantastic," he adds.
Image caption Aldi is "a universally appealing supermarket," says Mr Barnes

Aldi, like its rival discounter Lidl, is a German business and privately owned so doesn't have to answer to shareholders or the city.
It also means that it doesn't have to disclose like-for-like sales as its rivals do.
This is the performance of stores that have been open for more than a year, which is the sales measure most closely watched by analysts, and some have questioned Aldi's underlying rate of growth.
But the boss is happy to keep rivals guessing and says he is more than content with the performance of the business: "We're delighted because 2016 was another record year for Aldi.
We managed to attract a further million customers through our doors in a year and those customers have come from all over the UK, from all age groups underlying our status of a universally appealing supermarket," he says.
Aldi stocks around 1,700 products, compared to the 20-30,000 items you find in a typical big supermarket.
And 94% of these are private label.
Not being beholden to big brands enables it to buy products more cheaply - passing on the savings to customers while still making decent margins.
The chain opened its first store in the UK in Stechford, Birmingham 20 years ago.
But it wasn't until 2008 that Aldi started to make headway when it decided to up the quality and range of its produce, enabling customers to do a full shop.
When the recession struck, Aldi and Lidl benefited as shoppers became more careful with their money.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Aldi is investing 1bn over the next two years to improve its stores

Opponents vent against Aldi's own label products where the packaging looks incredibly similar to the big household brands, and supermarkets have complained about its advertising tactics.
But that hasn't put off shoppers.
The big four supermarkets - Tesco, Asda, Sainsbury's and Morrisons - have been fighting back on price, narrowing the gap at the till, especially on the key everyday essentials.
But Matthew Barnes is adamant that Aldi will always be cheaper.
That's one reason why its profits fell.
"Profits are down and that's because of very challenging times last year particularly post Brexit.
"We invested a huge amount to keeping our prices the lowest in the sector.
We view that position of having the lowest price in the market as the contract we have with our customers, and whatever happens and whatever challenges arise we maintain that price gap," he says.
Aldi knows it can't take its eye off the ball on price.
Its whole business model depends on being cheaper than the traditional supermarkets.
That relentless focus on price is continuing to put the pressure on the big four, according to the editor of industry trade magazine The Grocer, Adam Leyland:

"The big supermarkets know they can't afford to let their guard down.
The discounters effectively have a foot on their throat, which means that they can't pass on price increases as easily and blithely as they had in the past."
Another reason for the dip in profits is that Aldi is pouring money into new stores and upgrading some of its tired looking existing shops as well as building new distribution centres, including Sheppey in Kent, to support its growth in the south east.
It is investing 1bn over the next two years.
The Glascote store has been the test bed for the new look Aldi supermarket.
It's spacious and has an upmarket feel, featuring lines of chilled cabinets where products can be more easily seen.
But is Aldi at risk of falling into the trap of complexity by building bigger, better stores and adding more products?
"The crucial thing is that while the stores are now bigger, the range is very tightly controlled and therefore all the focus is on having more of the same product in there to meet the demand," says Mr Leyland.
But he says the chain needs to balance improving the shoppers' experience with costs.
"What they've got to wrestle with is to decide how much money do you need to spend for it to be an acceptable experience."
Image copyright PA Image caption One analyst says Aldi could become the UK's fourth biggest grocer within a year or two

Collectively, Aldi and its discounter rival Lidl now account for 1 in every 8 spent in Britain's supermarkets according to research firm Kantar Worldpanel.
A decade ago this was only 1 in 25.
Aldi is no longer the plucky underdog.
It could even leap-frog Morrisons to become the UK's fourth biggest grocer within a year or two, believes one respected city analyst.
The bigger and more successful it gets, so the scrutiny will grow too.
The big four have been cutting costs as they work to simplify their businesses.
That's included heavy job losses at all of their headquarters.
At Aldi's head office, construction workers are putting the finishing touches to a new glass reception for a building that is more than doubling in size.
For now at least, like the flow of lorries from the distribution centre next door, this grocer is on a roll.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption India's once robust economy is slowing

India's economy grew at its slowest pace for three years in the April-to-June quarter and growth has declined for six quarters in a row.
Economic analyst Vivek Kaul explains why one of the world's fastest growing economies is sputtering to a halt.
On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi revived India's economic council, a body that he had abolished soon after coming into power in 2014.
India has just seen its slowest economic growth since Mr Modi took over as the prime minister on the back of promises over more jobs and a stronger economy.
For the period between April and June 2017, Indian GDP grew by just 5.7% (as against 9.1% a year earlier).
Much of that 5.7% was because the government spent more than it usually does.
The non-government part of the GDP, which forms roughly 90% of the economy, grew by a meagre 4.3%.
Industry as a whole grew by 1.6%, with manufacturing and construction growing by 1.2% and 2% respectively.
The last time the economy grew by less than 6% (at 5.3%) was between January and March 2014, when Manmohan Singh was the prime minister.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Narendra Modi took over as the prime minister in May 2014

We live in a world where any rate of growth greater than 2% is considered to be good.
But what is true for Western countries isn't necessarily true for India.
India's GDP needs to grow at a rate faster than 7% for the country to continue to pull millions out of poverty.
"Even a small change in the growth rate of per capita income makes a big difference to eventual income per head," writes economist Vijay Joshi in India's Long Road - The Search for Prosperity.
This is what economists call the "power of compound interest".
And how would things look for India by 2040 at different rates of economic growth?
According to Joshi: "At a growth rate of 3% a year, income per head would double, and reach about the same level as China's per capita income today.
At a growth rate of 6% a year, income per head would quadruple to a level around that enjoyed by Chile, Malaysia and Poland today.
"If income per head grew at 9% a year, it would increase nearly eight-fold, and India would have a per capita income comparable to an average high-income country of today."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Agriculture still employs half of India's workforce

Agriculture, which accounts for around 15% of GDP, continues to employ half the country's workforce.
But exports between April and August 2017 are lower than they were in 2013 and 2014.
There is also India's so called demographic dividend - 12 million young Indians are entering the workforce every year.
But given the lack of a good education, most of these young people need low-skilled jobs, which the construction and real estate industries can provide.
With both sectors growing at the rate they are, where will the jobs come from?
The services sector continues to grow robustly, but it still needs support from industries like construction.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Millions of unskilled young people enter India's workforce each year

Even those industries that have the potential to create many jobs, such as apparel manufacturing, continue to operate on a small scale because of India's convoluted labour laws.
A recent report, Ease of Doing Business - An Enterprise Survey of Indian States, published by a federal institute, found that 85% of the firms operating in the apparel sector employed less than eight workers.
In fact, 85% of Indian manufacturing firms employ less than 50 workers.
The government feels that it has done enough to reform labour laws, and it is now the industry's responsibility to set up labour-intensive enterprises.
But as the data suggests, Indian industry continues to favour capital-intensive, rather than labour-intensive, methods of expansion.
As a result of all these factors, India has huge underemployment.
Numbers from 2015-2016 suggest that only three out of five people looking for a job throughout the year are able to find one.
The situation is worse in rural India, where only one in two are successful.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption After 86% of currency was cancelled overnight, Indians flooded banks to exchange the old notes for new ones

Demonetisation (a surprise government decision to cancel 86% of India's currency) has also made things worse - many firms operating in the cash-only informal sector, which created so many jobs, had to shut down.
And the Goods and Services Tax, a major overhaul that replaced numerous federal and state taxes with a single tax rate, hasn't helped either.
The other big worry is that India's largely government-owned public sector banks are in a mess.
Seventeen of 21 banks have a bad loans rate of 10% or more (as of 31 March).
Bad loans are loans in which the repayment from a borrower has been due for 90 days or more.
One bank (the Indian Overseas Bank) has a bad loans rate of 25%.
These bad loans are largely the result of lending to industry, where the overall bad loans rate stands at 22.3%.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption India's central bank is grappling with a crisis of bad loans

The government has already pumped in close to 1,500bn rupees ($23bn; 17bn) as capital since 2009 to keep these banks going.
But with the banks continuing to accumulate bad loans, they are going to need billions more as capital to continue to operate.
The federal government does not have this money but it remains reluctant to privatise or even shut down some of these banks.
A major impact of bad loans has been that public sector banks are now reluctant to lend to industry.
The Indian economy is suffering from many structural issues and if a long-term growth rate of 7-8% per year has to be sustained, these issues need to be tackled on a war footing.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Flooding in the Dominican Republic continues long after Hurricane Maria has passed

With hundreds dead and millions either left homeless, or facing huge damage to their properties, catastrophic flooding has devastated many parts of the world.
Nature's fury may seem unstoppable, but can technology at least help us to cope better?
Savage hurricanes and record rains have struck around the world, bringing chaos to many countries and regions, including Bangladesh, India, the Caribbean, China and Texas in the US.
Each year on average, flooding affects 96.9 million people worldwide, and causes $13.7bn (10bn) in damage, according to the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction.
Those figures are likely to rise dramatically after this year's deluges.
"There are now many indications that the incidence of storms and persistent rainfall events is increasing with climate change," says Dr Justin Butler, chief executive of Brighton-based flood risk assessment firm Ambiental.
But more accurate data from satellites and ground-based sensors, coupled with supercomputer modelling and machine learning, are giving us a clearer picture of which areas are likely to be most affected, says Mr Butler.
"Tens of thousands of simulations need to be run to capture a range of possible events," he explains, "so the number of calculations that have to be carried out every second runs into the billions."
This kind of modelling is helping authorities plan flood defences more effectively, insurers price risk more accurately, emergency services improve how they respond, and homeowners take better protective measures.
Ambiental's "digital terrain models", built up using Lidar (light distance and ranging) laser technology and other data, map how water flows across urban and rural landscapes.
Image copyright Ambiental Image caption Highly detailed satellite data is helping to improve flood map modelling

Its Flowroute modelling engine crunches all the data from sensors on land and in the sky - as well as historic data - to simulate complex flood flow patterns and make predictions.
All this extra data and computing power is helping insurance companies improve their pricing.
Liz Mitchell, founder of flood insurance specialist Flood Assist, says: "Recent flood events have seen insurers invest in more sophisticated data, which is allowing them to assess the flood risk of an individual property rather than that of a postcode.
"You can have many properties registered at a postcode, and some could literally be at the top of a hill and others at the bottom - they would represent very different risks."
In the 2011 Brisbane floods, Ambiental's model was 95% accurate, claims Mr Butler, correctly predicting flooding in 19 out of every 20 flooded properties.
More accurate modelling means some householders in previously "high risk" areas could see their premiums coming down.
But other householders, of course, could see their premiums rising after a reassessment.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Puerto Rico was also badly hit by Hurricane Maria, but the people were forewarned

"The use of data varies greatly from insurer-to-insurer.
The more sophisticated the data the more accurate - theoretically - their pricing should be," says Ms Mitchell.
Given that the cost of winter flooding in the UK last year was estimated to be 1.3bn, insurers are desperate to get a clearer picture of their likely liabilities.
More extreme weather needs more sophisticated monitoring, which is why Nasa has funded the Global Flood Monitoring System (GFMS), an experimental online computer program run by the University of Maryland.
It can make almost real-time flood analysis by combining data from satellites with a sophisticated land surface model that incorporates vegetation cover, soil type, and terrain.
If water cannot soak away into the land, flood surges are more probable, and knowing where these are likely to hit is crucial for saving lives.
Organisations like the Red Cross and the UN World Food Program are already using GFMS before, during, and after floods to supplement other on-the-ground intelligence they may have.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Japan's H-2A rocket carried the Himawari 8 weather satellite into orbit in 2014

Dr Robert Adler, a senior research scientist at the University of Maryland and one of the system's developers, says new Nasa satellite data has helped increase the accuracy of the model significantly - particularly useful during the recent Hurricane Harvey.
But he is not complacent.
"We've made a lot of progress and have had success," he says, "but there is still far to go.
Improvements in the satellite rainfall estimates will lead directly to improved flood analysis."
Computational power is useless without accurate data to work with, so groundbreaking new satellites, such as the Japanese Himawari-8, are making a big difference.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

It generates about 50 times more data than previous satellites, and can analyse average rainfall using thermal infrared images that read the temperature of cloud tops.
As well as advances in satellites, more sophisticated ground-based sensors are also improving modern flood prediction.
For example, the UK's Flood Network is harnessing the "internet of things" with the aim of creating an extensive, localised, early-warning system for flood-prone areas.
It uses wireless sensors monitoring water levels in streams, groundwater and river basins.
The data is transmitted over a Low-Power Wide-Area Network designed for long-range communications at a low bit rate.
Image copyright www.markbassett.co.uk Image caption Flood Network's sensors send water level data wirelessly

The initiative between Oxford-based Nominet and the Oxford Flood Network was launched in 2015, less than a year after the city was hit by floods that cut off major routes and homes for days.
"Although the Environment Agency provides blanket warnings, it has limited resources and uses just a few, expensive, professional sensors," says Adam Leach, Nominet's head of research and development.
"We thought that a higher density of sensors with more detailed data would make a real difference to monitoring water levels in flood-prone areas, particularly in small waterways.
"It's still relatively early days for the Flood Network," he adds, "but it demonstrates the huge potential the internet of things has to deliver the 'smart city' projects we've all heard so much about."
Forewarned is forearmed, they say, but a future Technology of Business feature will look at the technologies helping protect householders and businesses from the damage such floods can cause.
Image copyright Levi Strauss

Chip Bergh has the air of man at ease with the world.
But things could have turned out very different, given what he calls his "dysfunctional" childhood.
The 60-year-old chief executive of Levi Strauss, dressed in regulation blue jeans and denim shirt, readily admits to be being "blessed and lucky".
Six years into his successful turnaround of the once struggling US clothing firm, he says the job still gives him a "wow" feeling.
Mr Bergh and his family also love their San Francisco lifestyle, where the vegan boss pursues a passion for marathons and triathlons.
So, professionally and personally, things are going well for the former Procter & Gamble (P&G) executive.
But growing up in the suburbs of New York City there were times when he felt neither blessed nor lucky.
Mr Bergh's father was an advertising salesman working 14-hour days.
He was also an alcoholic.
Image copyright Devaki Knowles

There could be "lots of screaming and yelling" at home, Mr Bergh recalls.
"Mum and dad were always getting in fights."
One day his mother threatened to throw out his dad.
"That was a wake up call," says Mr Bergh.
His father then finally went to Alcoholics Anonymous, cleaned himself up and never touched another drop.
"I'm proud that my dad recovered," says Mr Bergh.
"He rebuilt his life."
Mr Bergh's childhood wasn't unhappy.
"I had a lot of friends, played a lot of sport, and went to a great school," he says.
But as the eldest of three children he says he shouldered much of the domestic discord, and grew up fast.
It left its mark and is in part behind his drive to succeed, he thinks.
It also left a determination not to repeat some of his father's mistakes.
"I'm pretty level-headed," says Mr Bergh.
"There's not a lot that really upsets me.
I'm not a yeller and screamer, at home or work.
I'm pretty relaxed."
And he doesn't drink.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption Levi Strauss emigrated to the US from Germany in 1853 when he was 18

So, how does Mr Bergh sum up his management style?
"Very open, honest, transparent.
What you see is what you get."
He insists he's "really down to earth", adding: "I put my pants on the same way everybody else does - one leg at a time."
Just don't confuse this regular-guy image with a lack of steel, as Mr Bergh's overhaul of Levi's has been radical, some might say brutal.
The company was created in 1873 when San Francisco-based wholesale merchant Levi Strauss and a business partner patented a way to strengthen denim trousers using copper rivets.
The rest as they say is history.
Through slick advertising and campaigning on social and political issues (such as donating millions to HIV/Aids charities), Levi's punched above its weight for decades.
Stories were common in the 1960s and 1970s of young Westerners packing Levi's jeans in their luggage to help barter their way through holidays behind the Iron Curtain.
If ever a brand deserved the label "iconic", Levi's was it.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The Levi 501 jeans are arguably the company's single most important product

But by the time Mr Bergh took over in 2011, the company he calls the original Silicon Valley start-up "had lost its way".
Annual sales peaked in 1997 at $7.1bn (5.3bn).
"We were bigger than Nike then," says Mr Bergh.
"Nike aspired to be like Levi's."
But Levi's lost its knack of combining heritage with changing trends, and by the early 2000s sales had fallen to $4bn.
Competition from the likes of Walmart and Gap had increased rapidly.
Levi had also borrowed heavily, chiefly to buy out scores of Strauss family descendants, and consolidate ownership.
The result, says Mr Bergh, was that the firm found it had to "cut costs, cut marketing, to save cash".
Levi's board ultimately decided it needed a fresh pair of hands, and so turned to Mr Bergh, who had the brand expertise and international experience it wanted.
After 28 years at P&G, most latterly working on the Old Spice deodorant and razors accounts, Mr Bergh saw a chance to fulfil an ambition to become a chief executive.
"It was too good an opportunity to pass," he says.
"It was an opportunity to make a difference, and leave a legacy."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chip Bergh is not afraid to "double denim"

All too aware that Levi's was struggling, Mr Bergh sent the firm's then top 60 managers six questions about the pros and cons of the business - and started interviewing each of them.
"But by about the 15th interview it was pretty clear what needed to be done," he says.
"There was no strategy, there was no alignment across the organisation... People were frustrated."
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world:

Mr Bergh invested in facilities, broadened the clothing range (especially womenswear), and expanded in relatively untapped markets such as Russia, China and India.
The ecommerce operation, previously outsourced and treated almost as an after-thought, was brought in-house, modernised and expanded.
Mr Bergh also changed the top team at the business.
Within 18 months of his appointment, nine of the 11-member executive team had left.
Of the current 150 senior managers, two-thirds have been with the company for three years or less.
He says: "We needed to change not just the business but the culture, and the best way to change the culture is to change the leadership."
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The original US patent for riveted jeans, from 1873

Mr Bergh admits the clear out was dramatic, sometimes traumatic, but says: "You always have to do the harder right than the easier wrong."
Did he learn such decisiveness in the army, which he joined for two years after school?
Making quick decisions was certainly part of the skill-set, he says.
But the army also taught him about leadership.
"It's wrong that the army is all about deference and saluting seniors," he says.
"You have to earn respect, build trust, be willing to make decisions, coach people and train people - all those skills are transferable to the corporate world."
The army's downside was that promotion moved slowly, and Mr Bergh wanted to "move ahead quickly".
A recruitment firm found him a job at P&G.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chip Bergh on letting staff go with dignity

Levi's turnaround seems to be succeeding, with 2017 expected to see the fifth consecutive year of profits growth.
Retail analyst Marshal Cohen, of market research group NPD, says that yet again Levi's has been able to "reinvent" itself to a new generation.
However, Mr Bergh says the job is far from finished.
"We have made really good progress.
It's been harder and taken longer than I expected.
"I'm not satisfied with where we are.
We still have a lot more work to do."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Leo Baekeland invented Bakelite, the world's first first fully synthetic plastic

"Unless I am very much mistaken, this invention will prove important in the future."
Leo Baekeland wrote those words in his journal on 11 July, 1907.
He was in a good mood.
Aged 43, he'd done well.
Born in Belgium, his dad was a cobbler.
He'd had no education, and didn't understand why young Leo wanted one.
He apprenticed the boy into the trade, aged just 13.
But his mum had other ideas.
With her encouragement, Leo went to night school, and won a scholarship to the University of Ghent.
By the age of 20, he had a doctorate in chemistry.
He married his tutor's daughter and moved to New York, where he made so much money from photographic printing paper that he need never work again.
The Baekelands bought a house in Yonkers, overlooking the Hudson River, where Leo built a home laboratory to indulge his love of tinkering with chemicals.
In July 1907, he was experimenting with formaldehyde and phenol.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Baekeland's invention made him famous enough to be featured on the cover of Time magazine

These experiments would lead to his second fortune.
He became so famous that Time magazine put his face on the cover without needing to mention his name, just the words, "It will not burn.
It will not melt."
What Leo Baekeland invented that July was the first fully synthetic plastic.
He called it Bakelite.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
And he was right about its future importance.
Plastics would soon be everywhere.
When Susan Freinkel wrote her book Plastic: A Toxic Love Story, she spent a day noting down everything she touched that was plastic: the light switch, the toilet seat, the toothbrush, the toothpaste tube.
She also noted everything that wasn't - the toilet paper, the wooden floor, the porcelain tap.
Unlimited potential

By the day's end, she'd listed 102 items that weren't made of plastic, and 196 that were.
We make so much plastic, it takes about 8% of oil production - half for raw material, half for energy.
The Bakelite Corporation didn't hold back in its advertising blurb: humans, it said, had transcended the old taxonomy of animal, mineral and vegetable.
Now we had a "fourth kingdom, whose boundaries are unlimited".
That sounds hyperbolic, but it was true.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Celluloid, which had been developed in the late 19th century, was gradually replaced by Bakelite and other more modern compounds

Scientists previously had thought about improving or mimicking natural substances.
Earlier plastics, like celluloid, were based on plants, and Baekeland himself had been seeking an alternative to shellac, a resin secreted by beetles that was used for electrical insulation.
Yet he quickly realised that Bakelite could become far more versatile than that.
Artificial explosion

The Bakelite Corporation christened it "The Material of a Thousand Uses", and, again, that wasn't far wrong.
It went into telephones, radios, guns, coffee pots, billiard balls and jewellery.
It was used in the first atomic bomb.
Image copyright Alamy

Bakelite's success shifted mindsets: what other artificial materials might be possible, with properties you couldn't necessarily find in nature?
In the 1920s and 1930s, plastics poured out of labs around the world.
There was polystyrene, often used for packaging, nylon, popularised by stockings, and polyethylene, the stuff of plastic bags.
As World War Two stretched natural resources, production of plastics ramped up to fill the gap.
And when the war ended, exciting new products like Tupperware hit the consumer market.
Image copyright Alamy

But they weren't exciting for long: the image of plastic gradually changed.
Shifting connotations

In 1967, the film The Graduate famously started with the central character, Benjamin Braddock, receiving unsolicited career advice from a self-satisfied older neighbour.
"Just one word," the neighbour promises, steering Benjamin towards a quiet corner, as if about to reveal the secret to life itself.
"Plastics!"
The line became much-quoted, because it crystallised the changing connotations of the word.
For the older neighbour's generation, "plastic" still meant opportunity and modernity.
For the likes of young Benjamin, it stood for all that was phoney, superficial, ersatz.
Still: it was great advice.
Half a century on, despite its image problem, plastic production has grown about twenty-fold.
It'll double again in the next 20 years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption None of the commonly used plastics is biodegradable, and many are not recycled

That's also despite growing evidence of environmental problems.
Some of the chemicals in plastics are thought to affect how animals develop and reproduce.
When plastics end up in landfill, those chemicals can eventually seep into groundwater; when they find their way into oceans, some creatures eat them.
More from Tim Harford:

How fertiliser helped feed the world

The hidden strengths of unloved concrete

How the invention of paper changed the world

Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars

But there's another side to the ledger - plastic has benefits that aren't just economic, but environmental too.
Vehicles made with plastic parts are lighter, and so use less fuel.
Plastic packaging keeps food fresh for longer, and so reduces waste.
If bottles weren't made of plastic, they'd be made of glass.
Which would you rather gets dropped in your children's playground?
Rubbish recycling rates

Eventually, we'll have to get better at recycling plastic, if only because oil won't last forever.
Some plastics can't be recycled - like Bakelite.
Many more could be, but aren't.
In fact only about a seventh of plastic packaging is recycled - far less than for paper or steel.
That rate is lower still for other plastic products.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
Improving that will take effort from everyone.
You may have seen little triangles on plastic, with numbers from one to seven.
They're called Resin Identification Codes, and they're one initiative of the industry's trade association.
They help with recycling, but the system's far from perfect.
If the industry could do more, then so could many governments: recycling rates differ hugely around the world.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Taiwan has been widely praised for achieving a recycling rate of around 55%

One success story is Taipei, Taiwan.
It changed its culture of waste by making it easy for citizens to recycle, and fining them if they don't.
How about technological solutions?
Revolutionary?
Fans of science fiction will enjoy one recent invention, the ProtoCycler.
Feed it your plastic waste, and it gives you filament for your 3D printer.
It is as close as we can get today to Star Trek's replicator.
Image copyright Redetec Image caption The ProtoCycler recycles waste plastic into 3D printer filament

In its day, Bakelite must have felt as revolutionary as that Star Trek replicator still feels to us.
Here was a simple, cheap synthetic product that was tough enough to replace ceramic tableware or metal letter openers, yet beautiful enough to be used as jewellery, and could even replace precious ivory.
It was a miracle material, even though - like all plastics today - we now take it for granted.
But manufacturers today haven't given up on the idea that you can make something precious and practical from something cheap and worthless.
The latest techniques "upcycle" plastic trash, mixing it with agricultural waste and nanoparticles to create new materials, with new properties.
Leo Baekeland would have approved.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images

Over the past year, we've been exploring 50 key things that have contributed to the development of the modern economy, including inventions such as the diesel engine, the battery, the shipping container, Google, antibiotics and the Billy bookcase.
But what did we miss?
What should be the 51st thing that made the modern economy?
We've received hundreds of suggestions, which we've whittled down to a shortlist of six.
You can vote for your favourite, and the winner will feature in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
The credit card

The first option of our six traces its history to 1960, in Minnesota in the US.
Dorothea Parry was ironing when her husband, Forrest, came home from work at the computer giant IBM.
How was his day?
Well, he had a problem.
IBM had worked out how to encode information on magnetic strips.
They wanted to fix the strips to plastic cards.
But he couldn't work out how.
Dorothea could.
She ironed them on.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Behavioural economists say we spend differently on plastic compared with cash

The addition of the magnetic stripe was a huge boost for credit cards, which were just a few years old and struggling for acceptance.
Merchants shown a Diners Club or American Express card had to phone the bank.
IBM's magnetic strip paved the way for a far less cumbersome approach.
The new credit cards were pushed aggressively.
And people soon found that having a "flexible friend" could make us drop our financial guard: behavioural economists tell us that spending on plastic is psychologically much easier than spending cash.
The price of convenience has been ballooning household debt.
But it's hard to imagine the modern economy without them.
Glass

Our second suggestion also requires heat to manufacture, but a household iron won't do the job.
You need temperatures of 1,700C to make glass.
Who first did that is lost to history, but they probably lived in Egypt, Syria or Mesopotamia, about 5,500 years ago.
Did they look at sand and have an unlikely brainwave: "I wonder what would happen if we melted it?"
Or did they discover glass by accident, perhaps while smelting bronze?
Who knows?
But it's safe to bet that the early glassmakers could never have predicted how it would shape the economy.
And if you choose glass as the 51st thing, my challenge will be choosing how to tell its story.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Glass touchscreen technology has driven the development of smartphones and tablets

Perhaps you're reading this on a touchscreen device, accessing the internet via fibre-optic cables.
Is that the story of glass?
Or I could focus, so to speak, on the lens - how the telescope and microscope changed our knowledge of the world.
Spectacles, windows, or fibreglass could each fill an episode of their own.
GPS (global positioning system)

One of the real challenges when choosing my list of 50 was that so many inventions overlap, one bright idea later enabling another.
The story of clocks, for example, concluded by observing that GPS wouldn't work without extremely accurate timekeeping.
But many of you felt that GPS deserves a story of its own, and that's our third possibility.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption GPS technology has revolutionised transportation

If you've got a smartphone, it probably has a GPS receiver.
There are 31 satellites flying around the Earth right now, constantly transmitting their position and the time.
If your phone can pick up signals from at least four of them, it can do some clever maths to work out where it is, and plot its position for you on a map.
Like many of our 50 things, GPS has military origins: the US Department of Defense developed it to win the Cold War.
Now, in turn, GPS is enabling bright ideas that will make the economy of the future - new business models that connect buyers and sellers, and new technologies such as self-driving vehicles, robots and drones.
Irrigation

The fourth item on our shortlist begins with an old story about a flood.
It's not the Judaeo-Christian tale of Noah's Ark, but the Chinese story of Emperor Yu, the founder of China's first dynasty 4,000 years ago.
Noah floated on the waters, but Emperor Yu tamed them, recruiting an army of labourers - along with a dragon and a giant turtle - to assist in setting up irrigation and drainage.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The traditional irrigation system used in Bali's Jatiluwih rice fields has Unesco world heritage status

Great Yu changed China, and irrigation continues to shape our economy, from California, where arguments rage over the most valuable use of scarce water, to Bali, where the intricacy of the water-management system has astonished visiting experts.
The only woman to receive a Nobel Memorial Prize in economics, Lin Ostrom, spent much of her life studying irrigation systems.
Ostrom was fascinated by how humans cooperate to manage common resources.
There are few more important questions than that - and few better case studies than how we decide who gets how much water, as it trickles - often crossing borders - from the hills down to the sea.
The pencil

Paper was one of our 50 things.
Should we add the pencil to the list?
It does have a special place in the history of economic thought.
In 1958, the libertarian economist Leonard Reed published an essay called I, Pencil, in which an ordinary pencil explained the miracle of its existence.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The humble pencil can demonstrate the sophistication of the modern globalised economy

The pencil boasted cedar from Oregon which had been milled in California, graphite from Sri Lanka, a brass ferule, a rubber made from Italian pumice and Indonesian rape-seed oil, and more besides.
Leonard Reed's point was that in a modern economy, behind even the humblest of objects was a tale of international supply chains, complex manufacturing, capital investment and science.
No one person can make a pencil from scratch, yet the miracle of market forces makes pencils available for pennies.
The pencil is a small enough player on the global scale - but a perfect way to understand the sophistication of the modern economy.
The spreadsheet

Time for one more idea, plucked from a list of hundreds.
But where did we store that list?
On a spreadsheet, of course.
Or perhaps I should say, 'On a digital spreadsheet' - because pencil-and-paper spreadsheets used to be ubiquitous.
The accountants of the 1970s would fill out row upon row of cost and revenue assumptions.
A single change might require hours - or even days - with a calculator, a pencil and a rubber.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spreadsheets transformed accountancy and made extremely sophisticated analysis possible

The first electronic spreadsheet, VisiCalc, came in 1979.
It was the brainchild of Dan Bricklin - a computer-savvy student at Harvard Business School.
He fantasised about creating a spreadsheet that would recalculate itself.
His software revolutionised finance.
Wall Street and the City of London started trading financial products that could hardly be said to exist - let alone be comprehended - without a spreadsheet.
It reshaped accountancy, destroying the jobs of clerks who had pored over paper spreadsheets.
But it created new jobs for analysts, exploring one scenario after another.
We increasingly understand the world around us through numbers, and the digital spreadsheet deserves much of the credit for that.
How to vote

You can vote for one of the six things listed above on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website, where you can also see the full terms and conditions.
Voting closes at 12:00 GMT on Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st thing will be announced in a special programme and podcast on 28 October 2017.
You can listen to all the episodes of 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy on the programme website, or download them as podcasts.
The round 1 coin will soon lose its status as legal tender.
In practice, shops can refuse to accept these coins from 16 October.
They have been used alongside the new 12-sided 1 coin since March - a period called co-circulation.
Now, there is not long left to spend, bank, exchange or donate old pounds coins but, first, you have to find them.
The Treasury and Royal Mint estimate that around 500 million round pounds are still out there somewhere.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A brief history of decimal coins

Rounding them up

Those old, round 1 coins might be lurking somewhere around the house.
Chris Bird, senior lecturer in psychology at the University of Sussex, says one way to find them is to visualise a situation when you had a handful of loose change.
"We can use our memory to imagine situations when we would use them and where we would leave them," he says.
"That is what the memory is for.
We use our memory to make decisions in the now and in the future."
He says that a fairly recent discovery reveals that we use the same part of our brain to remember the past as we do to imagine ourselves in a certain situation.
So the same mechanism in the brain's memory system allows us not only to travel back, but also to consider the present or the future.
The other way to find those old coins, according to Mr Bird, is simply to check all of the places that you know are where you commonly keep change.
So here is a handy list of 10 places to look:

1.
A wallet or purse

Sometimes the most obvious is the last place you look.
Shops can give the round 1 coins as change until 16 October, so they could be popped into a wallet or purse in a rush.
The Royal Mint has been encouraging shops to bag the round pounds separately so, when they are banked, they are taken out of circulation.
Down the back of the sofa

Image copyright Getty Images

The most clichd answer to the question of where to find loose change.
Honestly, when was the last time you found coins down there?
But when was the last time you looked?
It is probably worth checking in the next few days, along with armchairs, and beds.
Even if you do not find any money, you may come across the remote control for the DVD player.
Supermarket bag for life

You have finished your Friday night big shop and you are about to carry your groceries to the bus or car, but first you lock up the supermarket trolley and your 1 coin pops out of the mechanism.
Into the bag for life it goes.
Perhaps it is still there?
If the bag really is for life, then it might be sitting in the back of the cupboard under the stairs.
Most supermarket trolleys have now been altered to accept the new 12-sided 1 coin, but there was a delay at Tesco when the new coin was launched in March.
Big night out handbag

Image copyright Getty Images

It is only used on special occasions, so it might be at the back of the wardrobe or hanging on a peg behind a few coats.
The chances are that there is still a bit of cash in there, maybe some change from the bar or the taxi home.
If you go out a lot, you will have found the cash already.
If you have young children, then the last big night was probably months ago.
Winter coat pocket

While you are still at the back of the wardrobe, why not check the pockets of your winter coats.
It is unlikely that they have been worn since the new 12-sided 1 coin entered circulation on 28 March, and they might not be worn again before 16 October.
The old 1 coins cannot be spent in the shops after that date, but they can continue to be deposited into an account at most High Street banks and the Post Office for the foreseeable future.
The top drawer

Image copyright Getty Images

Any top drawer around the house seems a natural place to throw some loose change - even if it has socks in it.
It might also be the chance to declutter.
Is the only reason that the top drawer is always overflowing while the bottom is fine simply because we are too lazy to bend down?
Children's piggy banks

Children's financial habits are formed by the age of seven, according to the government-backed Money Advice Service.
So if your children are super savers, then there could be quite a few 1 coins in their piggy banks.
Junior savings accounts can generally be opened with as little as 1, to keep that savings habit going.
It may be a chance for the youngsters to spend the fruits of their savings labours before there is a scene in the toy shop when the cashier refuses an old, lovingly saved 1 coin.
It is worth remembering too that tooth fairies should no longer use old, round 1 coins from 16 October.
A charity pot

Image copyright HM Treasury

Many homes will have a charity pot of some kind, ranging from those big glass bottles to a cardboard shoe box.
The UK Treasury and the Royal Mint have joined forces with the BBC's Children in Need appeal to ask anyone who finds some old 1 coins to donate them to the charity.
"We are encouraging everyone who can, to promise their round pounds to Pudsey," says Andrew Jones, exchequer secretary to the Treasury.
Car glove compartment

There are probably many more coins in vehicle glove compartments than gloves.
A recent survey by the AA motoring organisation suggested drivers have been avoiding parking spots that require payment by phone as cash remained a more popular way to pay.
Many drivers keep coins in the glove compartment for parking fares, and in that little well by the gear stick that is designed to hold cups.
Gym kit bag

Image copyright Getty Images

Attendance at the gym or sports centre may have waned a little since the subscription was bought with good intentions in the new year.
The gym bag may actually have been unopened throughout the summer.
In which case, the 1 coins for the locker may be old round ones, rather than new 12-sided ones.
Dig them out, pop them in the bank, and save them ready for January's subscription renewal, when the good intentions start all over again.
The new 1 coin: Vital statistics

Image copyright PA

Thickness: 2.8mm - thinner than old coin

Weight: 8.75g - lighter than old coin

Diameter: 23.4mm - larger than old coin

Number to enter circulation: 1.5 billion - about 23 per person.
Old 1 coins will be melted down to make new ones

Outer ring: gold-coloured, made from nickel-brass

Inner ring: silver-coloured, made from nickel-plated alloy
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption My Little Pony with attitude: US designer Jeremy Scott at Moschino's fashion show in Milan

The fashion industry is experiencing a revolution, with mermaids, unicorns, sparkles and vintage toys now all the rage in High Street fashion shops.
Products once considered to be "too childish" or alternative for women to wear are now increasingly popular.
Moschino has just launched its My Little Pony collection for Spring/Summer 2018 at Milan Fashion Week.
But the trend has led to renewed debate among consumers about whether wearing such fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
A new social phenomenon is arising on Instagram, whereby young women have become the key influencers for their friendship circles and communities.
Social trends

Users now regularly post photos of their outfits on Instagram, together with a full run-down of what they are wearing and where they got it from.
If someone has a unique and unusual item, others covet it.
Image copyright Jessica Ayton Image caption Quirky cute alternative fashion items can now be found on the High Street

To ensure that more people see the outfit shot posts, users include hashtags for different styles and tag the small businesses they purchased the item from.
This helps other consumers find the product, as well as providing free publicity for independent brands.
Over time, these trends grow on social networks, often without ever receiving mainstream media coverage.
Relatable fashion

Now, some of these fashion trends are making their way into the mainstream - whether it's seashell bags, pink heart chokers, sparkly rubber phone cases, pastel jackets, comfortable boat-like shoes called "creepers", fluffy neon fur tops or colourful see-through backpacks.
"People just want something they can relate to," says Rosanna Mackney, the creative director of Dreamy Bows, a UK retailer of Japanese fashion.
"If you see a model in a magazine, you know they've had styling and a makeup artist to do it for them, but if you see someone's Instagram account, you know that they achieved that look by themselves, so you know it's a lot more realistic that you can achieve the look yourself."
Image copyright Ruth Brain Image caption Clothing themed around vintage 1980s toys like My Little Pony, Care Bears and Polly Pocket are also now all the rage

Merchandise depicting vintage toys like My Little Pony and Polly Pocket have also seen a revival amongst fashionistas on Instagram.
Apart from Moschino, American independent makeup brand Lime Crime recently launched a line of eyeshadow palettes inspired by 1990s Polly Pocket playsets.
Lime Crime founder Doe Deere says that her beauty brand wants customers to be unapologetically expressive: "Our customers create the trends - they inspire us daily.
"Women have been told a lot of things [about what they should wear], but thankfully the fashion and beauty industries are populated with innovators and change-makers who don't give much thought to the rules."
'Be adult'

Yet many think that childlike items should be best left in childhood.
"You may like bright and vibrant colours.
That is perfectly fine.
But you are not a little girl.
You are an adult woman, and there is pride in being an adult women," Racked.com's Jennifer Wright implores in a critique of the 2017 summer fashion trends.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Are the symbols and fashions you choose to wear really a sign of how mature you are?
"Please don't latch onto the fantasy world of mermaids and unicorns and whatever other bits of girlish nostalgia is being marketed to you.
"None of those things are real.
Now, more than ever, we need to be present in the real world that's unfolding.
The world needs adult women, desperately."
Financial crisis

Ruth Brain, 27, an alternative fashion YouTube vlogger from Edinburgh known online as "Princess Peachie", has been collecting vintage toys since 2005.
Ms Brain who has 59,000 YouTube subscribers and 12,000 Instagram followers says that while her hobby was judged as being "weird" 12 years ago, nowadays young women feel more comfortable expressing themselves openly.
"Those of us who grew up through the late 1980s to early 2000s are all kind of withdrawing to that carefree, happier feeling," she says.
"Which for us was before the point we finished high school and got tossed into a financial crisis."
"But also we're all kind of realising that 'growing up' isn't really related to aesthetic.
Image copyright Dreamy Bows Image caption The latest trends are heavily influenced by the Harajuku street styles from Japan and other underground movements

"It's related to your intelligence, wisdom and emotional maturity - so if you're wearing My Little Ponies on your sweatshirt or Care Bears on your socks, none of that really matters in the grand scheme of things, as long as it makes you smile," says Ms Brain.
Fashion rebels

Rosanna Mackney also disagrees that wearing colourful, cute fashion items is a sign of immaturity.
"It's a rebellion against what society and high fashion thinks women should dress like," she says.
"Mature, understated elegance, muted colours - lots of people don't want to conform to this, and sometimes we just want to wear cute and colourful things that express all sides of our personalities."
But perhaps times are changing, and the so-called "rules" governing a woman's perceived maturity are being turned on their head.
"Fashion today is becoming more young and fun - it's kind of like they're branching out for the 'weird kid'," says Jessica Ayton, 27, an alternative fashion blogger from West Yorkshire with 5,000 followers on Instagram.
"The cutesy fashion, we're allowed to embrace it now."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Jorge Sarmento Image caption Cork is harvested from a type of oak tree, with Portugal the world's largest producer

If you are a regular wine drinker it is almost certain that you have opened a corked bottle or two in your time.
As a result of a tainted cork, the wine smells and tastes unpleasant - all musky and mouldy.
After the initial disappointment, you then have the worry of trying to get your money back from the wine shop or supermarket.
Or you may face an awkward conversation with a supercilious wine waiter, whose boss might not take kindly to reimbursing you, especially if it was an expensive bottle and the taint isn't too prominent.
Figures for how many cork-sealed wine bottles are affected by cork taint are hotly disputed, but a 2007 study put it as high as one in 10.
With reputations on the line, and money lost on wine tipped down sinks, it is not surprising that winemakers around the world are continuing to ditch corks for metal screw-cap openings on their bottles.
So much so that cork went from sealing 95% of wine bottles globally in the 1990s, to just 62% in 2009.
This is bad news for Portugal's cork producers, who supply more than half the world market from forests of cork oak trees in the south of the country.
However, the industry is fighting back.
Image copyright APcor Image caption Natural corks are "punched" out of strips of cork

But first, what exactly is cork taint?
It is caused by a chemical compound known as TCA.
In very simple terms, TCA is created by tiny airborne fungi that have attached themselves to the cork.
It isn't harmful, but it can make your wine taste bad, or alternatively strip it of flavour.
Carlos de Jesus, director of marketing at Portugal's largest cork producer, Amorim, admits that about 13 years ago things looked bleak for the future of natural corks in some countries.
"Of course everything has its upsides and downsides, but there was a moment there around 2003-04 where the image of cork not having a future was taking place in some markets, mainly in Australia and New Zealand," he says.
Image copyright Philipe Laurent Image caption The trees grow the cork back over a nine-year period

Fast-forward to today, and Mr de Jesus says that Amorim is leading efforts to prevent any TCA infected corks getting into the system.
It does this using a process it calls "NDTech", whereby it uses hi-tech sensor machines to weed out any bad corks.
Mr de Jesus adds: "We can do that analysis not in minutes... but in seconds.
We can now give an individual guarantee, cork by cork."
And despite the big move to screw-caps, particularly still in Australia and New Zealand, Amorim now produces 4.4 billion corks per year, out of a total 12 billion industry-wide.
This compares with 4.7 billion screw-caps per annum, and 1.8 billion bottles with plastic stoppers.
Despite the hard work of Amorim and other members of the Portuguese cork industry to tackle TCA, Australian wine boss Mitchell Taylor says he doesn't expect he will ever go back to corks.
Image copyright APcor Image caption A total 12 billion natural corks are made each year

Mr Taylor is managing director of Taylors Wines (known as Wakefield Wines in the UK), based in South Australia's Clare Valley.
In 2004 it was the first major Australian winery to decide to seal all its wines under screw-cap.
"We were finding we had TCA and random oxidation problems with up to 10-15% of our wines, and we were able to eliminate that overnight," he says.
"The world has moved forward, I compare going back to cork as the horse and cart, it's a great form of transport, but really we've moved on in modern technology."
Yet while Mr Taylor is adamantly against natural corks, it remains the case that the vast majority of top European and American wines are still sealed with them.
In addition to being a case of tradition, and a continuing perception that the wine will be of better quality, natural corks have a proven record over the centuries of helping fine wines to mature by letting in tiny amounts of oxygen, something screw-caps cannot properly replicate.
Grgich Hills Estate in California's Napa Valley is one winemaker that is mainly sticking with natural corks, which it uses on 70% of its wines.
It typically pays about 70-93 cents (52-69p) per high-quality Portuguese cork.
Image copyright Taylors Image caption Australian wine firm Taylors was the first in that country to switch completely to using screw-caps

Ivo Jeramaz, Grgich's vice president of grape growing and production, says: "These days our research points to three to five corks per 1,000 being affected by TCA, not three to five per 100, so it's far less than it used to be."
He adds that "top notch expensive wines" need natural corks, "just as you wouldn't drink it from a paper cup".
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at interesting business topics from around the world:

Are changeable heels the end to women's sore feet?
Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Grgich doesn't use any screw-caps at all, and instead for the other 30% of its bottles it is experimenting with a new cork called "Diam".
Developed by a French firm of the same name, Diam corks are made by milling cork into granules which are treated with carbon dioxide to remove any TCA, before being pressed and glued into a cork shape.
Diam corks are now growing quickly in popularity, particularly among French winemakers aiming at the middle market.
Image copyright Diam Image caption Diam corks are made from treated cork granules, which are then pressed into shape

Mark Pardoe, a master of wine at UK merchant Berry Bros & Rudd, says that natural cork is still the "preferred closure for wines that require cellarage".
He adds: "Its elasticity and ability to allow a very gentle oxidation when a wine is correctly stored makes it a still-unsurpassed closure for long-term wines.
"Progress in cork processing methods mean that some cork producers are now able to give guarantees, and traceability, to insure the drinker against increasingly infrequent "corked" bottles.
"And, as such, cork is still the premium wine closure, although every premium winery experiments with other closures."
The Portuguese cork industry is also keen to stress its environmental credentials, particularly the fact that trees are not cut down to harvest the cork.
Instead the cork is stripped from beneath the bark, and then grows back over a nine-year period.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Screw-caps can remove the threat of TCA, but some question whether they work for wines that need to be cellared for many years

Michael Colangelo, vice president of New York-based PR firm Colangelo & Partners, which is promoting Portuguese cork in the US, says: "Many people still don't understand the sustainability of cork, in that it's like shearing a sheep - you don't kill the sheep to get the wool."
Ramiro Baptista, manager of cork firm Portugalia, adds that the global wine industry is large enough for all forms of closure to have a bright future.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint founder David Nathaniel says the chain has been welcomed in Italy

In Italy coffee is synonymous with espresso, downed quickly and without ceremony.
But a new breed of American-style coffee shops is drawing in younger Italians.
"We like it here because we can study and be connected online.
We both prefer American-style coffee than Italian and we love the different style of cakes," say Aurora, 13, and Linda, aged 14.
It's just before lunchtime and we're sitting inside 12oz Coffee Joint - a self-styled American coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
'Un caffe'

Italy is viewed by many as the world capital of coffee - wherever you turn you see a bar serving espresso, cappuccino or caffe macchiato as well as the traditional brioche.
In these places, if you asked for a latte you would be served a glass of milk.
Ordering an espresso is also unnecessary; "un caffe" is all you need to say.
Coffee and espresso are synonymous in Italy.
But in here the drink options are far more exotic, with americano, iced cinnamon lattes or caramel macchiatos all on offer.
It's not just the drinks.
The counter is piled high with a vast array of doughnuts, muffins, brownies and bagels.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption 12oz Coffee Joint has a coffee shop near the Duomo in Milan.
One customer, Alberto, who is 32, says it's these kinds of differences that have drawn him in.
"I enjoy coming here because it's stylish and has a young fresh feel to it compared to Italian coffee shops."
It's young Italians like these who are starting to shake up the traditional Italian coffee culture in Italy.
12oz Coffee Joint opened its first store in 2015 and there are now six in Milan and one opening soon in Verona.
The chain wants to expand to major cities such as Rome and Venice.
But what made Italian founder David Nathaniel want to sell American coffee in his home country?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption The chain also serves US-style cakes

"I have two children who are teenagers - whenever they went abroad they always wanted to have photos posted on social media with big cups of coffee with whipped cream," he says.
"Then one day I saw a typical woman from Milan with her Louis Vuitton handbag with a big cup of coffee and she became my muse.
"If she was walking the streets of Milan with a big cup of coffee then the time had come."
Despite the non-traditional concept, he says the coffee shop was broadly welcomed when it opened.
"We had no anger or opposition but it was funny to see the faces of people who would come in and not understand the concept.
"Their reactions to drinking coffee in big paper cups was quite amusing - a lot of professionals in the market actually felt there was a need for such a chain."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Young Italian coffee drinkers are keen to experiment

Jonny Forsyth, global drinks analyst at market research firm Mintel, says traditional coffee shops have failed to keep up with changing tastes.
"Italian coffee shop culture is so traditional that it has determinedly ignored modern consumer trends.
"It is also very rare to find flavoured coffee, although some outlets in the north serve coffee with Nutella or hazelnut paste," he says.
Changing trends

Yet Mintel's research has found that Italians, particularly younger ones, are keen to experiment beyond the traditional espresso.
Its research showed a majority (64%) of 16-24 year-old Italian coffee drinkers like trying different flavours of coffee (e.g.
vanilla, hazelnut) at home compared to 42% of those aged 55 and above.
Mintel also found that over three-quarters of 16-24-year-olds who drink coffee in a typical week like the taste of milky coffee compared to 60% of regular Italian coffee drinkers aged 45 and above.
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Arnold Coffee, founded by Alfio Bardolla (right), opened in 2009

It's not just 12oz Coffee Joint which has emerged to take advantage of these changing tastes.
US-style chain Arnold Coffee opened its first shop in 2009, also in Milan.
It now has nine coffee shops with more set to open in Florence and Rome.
Italian founder Alfio Bardolla says the fact that their shop allows customers to stay longer and linger over a coffee is one of their big attractions.
"The Italian bar is based on a 'drink up and leave' mentality and if you're there for more than 10 minutes they get annoyed.
"We thought that if McDonald's had succeeded [in Italy], then so would American coffee."
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption At Arnold Coffee customers stay longer than in traditional bars

Mr Bardolla baulks at the idea that selling US-style coffee means the quality suffers, arguing the fact it is often diluted means they have to use better quality coffee.
"People do not come to us to drink an espresso but an espresso with our coffee is even better than the traditional bars.
Our price is higher but the quality is higher."
One self-confessed coffee addict and Arnold customer, 22-year-old Alessia, is convinced.
"It's lighter than Italian coffee and I love that you can carry it around with you in the big paper cups," she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Starbucks says it is opening in Italy with "humility and respect"

Coffee giant Starbucks is betting on more US coffee fans like Alessia when it opens its first store in the country next year, a high-end, high-concept roastery in Milan two minutes from the Duomo and the historic Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II.
The American coffee chain has promised to enter the birthplace of the espresso "with humility and respect".
But what do traditional Italian coffee owners think about the shift in culture?
Image copyright James Whitty Image caption Caffe Rigoletto owner Vito Fortunato says they make US requests "the Italian way"

Vito Fortunato, owner of Caffe Rigoletto in Salsomaggiore Terme, in the province of Parma, says he believes American-style coffees, particularly the flavoured ones "are really bad for you".
Even when they get "American requests" he says they make it "the Italian way".
"In Italy for someone who wants to have a different style coffee we put a small drop of flavoured syrup or brandy or a drop of fresh whipped cream or a small scoop of ice cream but this is very traditionally Italian."
But he says the biggest loss from the growing numbers of young Italians choosing American-style coffee shops over their local neighbourhood espresso bars is nothing to do with flavour, but with culture.
"The customer sees the bar as a place to open up, to confide and have a chat and a point of human contact between two people.
"I see that this is slowly disappearing, but it is very important for our lives."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Do students want to have debates?
Or stop other people from speaking?
Free speech - too much of it or too little of it - has become one of the thorniest and most emotive subjects for universities.
At what point do strongly held views become extremism or hate speech?
There have been violent flashpoints, particularly in US universities, about what can be said about race, gender and sexuality.
And when does the ultra-liberal assertion of "safe spaces" and limits on language become intolerant and controlling?
Or are these just first-world problems, missing the point about what freedom is really about?
So as new academic terms begin, where are the significant battlegrounds?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'It gets lonely': Being conservative on a liberal campus

1) In Hong Kong, students are under pressure to stop putting up posters and flying banners promoting independence from China.
University campuses are being told that this is not an issue of freedom of speech, but an attack on the principle of Hong Kong's "one country, two systems" relationship with China.
The posters are put up by students on "democracy walls", but authorities say this is an "abuse" of freedom.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Security for a campus speech at Berkeley cost the university $600,000

2) The dollar price of free speech: The University of California, Berkeley, was a cradle of the "free speech movement" in the United States in the 1960s, when students were protesting against the Vietnam war.
It's still on the front line of debates about free speech.
Right-wing commentator Ben Shapiro spoke at Berkeley this month, drawing angry protests from opponents.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Torches have been banned at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville

The university authorities said the security operation around the event cost them $600,000 (440,000).
Another right-wing free speech event, also likely to provoke another protest, is planned for the autumn.
3) Looking west or east?
: The Central European University in Budapest in Hungary has been at the centre of an international struggle, which the university says could see it being shut down.
The university, originally funded by the liberal philanthropist George Soros, says it is being targeted by an unsympathetic, nationalist government.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Protesters in Budapest want to protect the threatened Central European University

Hungary's government says the university needs to comply with new higher education regulations - and negotiations in the United States have been trying to break the deadlock.
4) Illiberal liberals?
: Republican lawmakers in the US state of Ohio are trying to put campus free speech into legislation - challenging what they see as excessive political correctness.
They warn that a "mentality is creeping into our culture that views disagreeable speech as inherently hateful, or even violent".
They want to stop universities setting up designated "free speech zones" on campus, where controversial opinions can be aired, arguing that the whole university should be open to free speech.
5) Torch ban: After the confrontations between torch-carrying white supremacists and protesters at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, the universities have clarified that carrying such "open flames" will not be permitted by the campus police.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption US campuses have seen conflicts over what views should be allowed to be expressed

It shows the power of the symbol in arguments over free speech, with the burning torches evoking images of the Ku Klux Klan and far-right rallies.
There are other measures toughening up security, but university authorities say that carrying "open flame devices" will be prohibited.
6) Turkey trial: The trial of a university lecturer accused of terror-related charges began last week in Turkey.
Nuriye Gulmen, and a primary school teacher also facing charges, have been on a hunger strike protest and were not present at the court in Ankara, with supporters warning of their ill-health.
They lost their jobs in a crackdown that followed the failed coup attempt against Turkey's president last year.
Their case has become a symbol of the 150,000 people claiming to have been sacked or suspended since the coup attempt.
7) Carving out an argument: US universities have been caught in a series of symbolic battles over statues, the names of buildings and what constitutes campus freedom.
Much of this has been about representations of race and identity.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Hong Kong students are being told to take down posters and banners calling for independence

Yale has decided that it needs to remove a 1920s carving from one of its buildings which "depicts a Puritan settler holding a musket pointed toward the head of a Native American".
The university says leaving it in place could create the "unintended effect" of endorsing an image which shows a "scene of warfare and colonial violence toward local Native American inhabitants".
The push for gender neutrality has also seen the university switch away from the traditional term "freshman" for new students to using "first year".
8) Chelsea Manning, imprisoned after giving government information to Wikileaks, was named as a visiting fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard Kennedy School last week.
But two days later the university rescinded the appointment describing it as a "mistake".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Harvard reversed its decision to offer a post to Chelsea Manning

Harvard said in appointing her they wanted to hear from people who "significantly influenced events in the world even if they do not share our values".
This raised the recurrent issue about being free to hear opposing views.
But after ex-acting CIA director Michael Morell resigned from his post at the university over the decision, Harvard reversed her appointment.
9) "My job is not to make you feel comfortable."
The University of Oxford vice chancellor, Louise Richardson, warned fellow university leaders that they had a responsibility to protect free speech on campus.
She told them that students needed to confront views with which they disagreed, even if it meant addressing attitudes that made them "uncomfortable" or they found offensive.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Should universities focus on protecting free speech or preventing provocation?
But she then became embroiled in a row over whether the example she used showed a lack of opposition to homophobia, with calls for an apology and clarifications that she had been "completely misconstrued".
10) North Korea: What are their worries about free movement?
A private, English-language university in the country, the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, has been struggling with getting overseas staff through the US travel ban, but opened as planned this term.
Meanwhile Kim Il-sung University, working on a technology project forecasting exchange rates, has only "success" to report.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption China is experiencing a growing problem of financial fraud

Li Wenxing was starting a new life.
In May, the young university graduate left his home in rural China on the offer of work with a software company in the city of Tianjin.
But the job was a scam and Mr Li was swept into the web of a gang running a pyramid scheme.
Two months later he was dead.
The tragedy, which is being investigated, sparked national outrage and has illuminated the growing problem of financial fraud and its devastating impact on communities in China.
"It's almost an epidemic, especially in rural areas," says Violet Ho, senior managing director at Kroll.
Pyramid schemes

Pyramid schemes are flourishing in parts of the country where education levels are low.
The schemes prey on the vulnerable, typically young people and the elderly, with the promise of employment or lucrative returns for direct sales of products like cosmetics or health supplements.
Victims are assured of great fortune if they recruit more investors into the operation.
"They give the illusion to naive people that they can get rich quickly without risk," says Ms Ho, who investigates financial systems and advises on China.
Peer-to-peer lending and virtual currencies have fuelled the spread of other investing scams, luring victims with little financial knowledge.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Parts of rural China have been particularly hard hit by financial scams

Pyramid - and Ponzi - schemes rely on attracting a constant stream of new investors, and some of the funds raised are paid to earlier backers.
Ms Ho says the Chinese swindles are distinct from frauds typically seen in Western societies due to the lack of sophistication of the investors involved.
Victims have sunk everything they have - borrowing money and even selling their houses - on the promise of even bigger returns.
Chinese social media site Weibo is awash with talk of pyramid schemes.
"I've lost count of the people who've been trapped", said one user.
Social problem

It's a social problem the government is fighting to contain.
Victor Shih, associate professor in political economy and China expert at the University of California San Diego, says a combination of factors have spurred the spread of these scams.
"The rapid proliferation of pyramid schemes is caused by high growth in living costs, especially housing costs, which enticed many to look for higher returns - and previously light regulation at the local level," Prof Shih says.
Under pressure to grow their economies, local governments had in the past endorsed some dubious investment schemes - without properly understanding them - on the belief they would deliver strong returns and spur growth.
"Pyramid schemes were [one popular idea] which they thought could keep driving economic growth," says Prof Ning Zhu, deputy dean of the National Institute of Financial Research at Tsinghua University.
"I don't think this is happening any more," he adds.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Low levels of financial literacy in China has helped fuel the spread of pyramid schemes

Government crackdown

Authorities are paying more attention.
The government acknowledges the number of big pyramid scheme cases has shot up, and that organisers are using various channels to lure and cheat unsuspecting Chinese out of their money and assets.
"Pyramid schemes directly harm the market's economic order and social harmony and stability," Beijing said in a recent statement.
China is carrying out three months of co-ordinated action to investigate and clean-up the practice of pyramid selling.
As part of the crackdown, more than 100 arrests were made in southern China last month, targeting individuals over their suspected links to a 360m yuan (42.3m) pyramid scheme.
Authorities had at least one major bust last year - breaking up a 50bn yuan online finance scam which was suspected of defrauding 900,000 investors.
And while there may be more reaction from the government - the number of pyramid schemes investigated in 2016 jumped 19% on the previous year - the tactics of the con artists at work in China appear to be getting more insidious.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The government says pyramid schemes harm Chinese society

Sinister tactics

Days before Li Wenxing died, the young man reportedly told his family "No matter who calls for money, don't give it to them."
Soon after arriving in Tianjin Mr Li became distant, hard to reach by phone and began asking friends for loans, according to Reuters.
Mr Li was found to have drowned in a small pond outside of Tianjin, the report said.
Police said he had been involved in a pyramid scam and investigations are continuing.
Kroll's Violet Ho says the methods like the extortion believed to have been used by the group in Mr Li's case are common.
She says scams in China have become more sinister as organisers illegally detain people and use intimidation tactics on victims, bringing the problem to a "different level".
Image copyright Getty Images

As many as 400,000 passengers across the EU could have flights with Ryanair cancelled between now and the end of October.
The airline said on Saturday it would cancel 40-50 flights every day for the next six weeks, after it "messed up" the planning of pilot holidays.
All of Ryanair's flights are short or medium-haul, and the vast majority are to destinations within the EU, meaning that passengers are entitled to some very specific rules on compensation.
On its website the airline says: "We understand that flight cancellations may cause distress, and we will accommodate your option of choice wherever possible, while complying with EU Regulation 261/2004."
What are my options if my flight is cancelled?
You can apply for a refund.
Even if it is only the outbound portion of the flight that is cancelled, you can still get a refund for the return leg, assuming you do not want to use it.
Or you can chose an alternative flight - perhaps on an earlier or later date.
In most cases Ryanair will offer you another flight with them.
However, the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) says that if an alternative airline is flying there "significantly sooner", then you have the right to be booked onto a different airline.
Ryanair is offering alternative flights/refunds via this page.
However, chief executive Michael O'Leary has said that Ryanair would not book passengers onto flights with rival carriers.
"We will not pay for flights on other airlines, no.
It is not part of the EU261 entitlement," he said, referring to European passenger rights legislation covering cancelled flights.
Image copyright Getty Images

Can I claim compensation for the inconvenience?
You can claim compensation - but it is based strictly on the time of your actual arrival compared to when you originally expected to arrive.
It also depends when Ryanair told you about the cancellation.
If it gave you more than 14 days' notice, it does not have to pay any compensation at all.
However, so far all passengers have been given less than a week's warning.
If Ryanair books you onto a flight with another airline, you are still entitled to compensation.
What if I have received less than 14 days' notice?
If your re-booked flight arrives more than four hours later than the flight you were originally booked on, you can claim 250 euros - around 220.
For flights over 1,500km, known as medium-haul, that goes up to 400 euros - around 350.
However, if the new flight re-routes you via another destination, and you end up with a longer flight as a result - you can still claim compensation, but at a lower rate.
If you are flying on a short-haul flight, and the re-routed flight is at least two hours late, you can claim 125 euros - around 110.
If a medium-haul re-routed flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 200 euros - around 176 - depending on the time of take-off.
What if I have received less than seven days' notice?
If you receive less than a week's notice of the cancellation, the criteria for compensation are tighter.
In this case, your short-haul flight only needs to arrive more than two hours after your original scheduled arrival time for you to claim 250 euros.
If flying more than 1,500km, and the flight is at least three hours late, you can claim 400 euros.
If a new short-haul flight is re-routed, taking off more than one hour before your original flight, but arriving two hours after it, you can claim 125 euros.
A re-routed medium-haul flight needs to arrive at least three hours late for compensation to be paid.
In such a case passengers would get 200 euros.
Image copyright Getty Images

Should I get a refund and arrange my own alternative flight?
You are free to do this, but you will then lose out on any right to compensation.
If you cancel the flight completely, remember that you may not even get a refund.
I don't know whether my flight has been cancelled: What should I do?
So far Ryanair has only published the details of a few of the flights that have been cancelled.
However, it has promised the details of all the cancelled flights will be on its website over the next 24 hours.
This will leave a lot of people not knowing whether their trip will go ahead.
But if you decide to cancel or change your flight without knowing whether it will be cancelled officially, you have no special rights under the European Regulations.
The CAA advises passengers to go through the airline for that reason.
Am I entitled to additional help?
If you find yourself stranded at the airport, you might also be entitled to an extra payment to cover short-term costs.
For example, if you have had to wait an extra day to take the new flight you should be given accommodation, food, drink and access to communications - such as the cost of a couple of telephone calls.
Image copyright Habito Image caption Daniel's career has been eventful

Daniel Hegarty, the founder of mortgage broker app Habito, does not have the physique of a tech geek.
The 35-year-old's arms are muscled and densely covered in tattoos, a legacy from his time, perhaps, as a successful guitarist.
Even by the standards of tech entrepreneurs, Daniel's background is unconventional.
Leaving school in London before he was 16, he says: "I guess I was a bit of a rebel.
I wanted to do what I wanted to do.
"I just took days off, and when the local guitar shop offered me extra days' work, I decided I'd cut down on my school days."
Then he got suspended.
But despite departing secondary education without any qualifications, it was not the disaster it would have been for most.
A talented guitarist, his punk group, Serum, got signed by the same record label as Boy George, and went on the road earning the princely sum of 100 a week per band member.
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption Daniel spent a decade as a professional musician and songwriter

Before he was 20-years-old, Daniel was living in Los Angeles.
But he gave up on becoming famous in his own right to instead write for, and play, with headline acts such as Robbie Williams, S Club 7, Pink and the Sugababes.
After some 10 years of this, he'd had enough: "It's a strange job.
To make money you have to make a certain amount of bad music.
"And I came to the conclusion I was tired of staring at the back of teenage pop stars."
So he moved back to the UK in 2007 with nothing to do, before a music industry contact came to the rescue.
"A friend of mine was an opera singer who had a pop hit as Tina B," he says.
"I called Tina and asked if she knew anyone who could give someone without any qualifications a job.
"She said she knew a couple of crazy tech guys who needed people."
A meeting over a cup of coffee got him in.
The crazy tech guys turned out to be nucleus of the subsequently much-criticised payday loan lender Wonga.
"There were just a handful of us," says Daniel.
"Between us, we did whatever needed doing."
At Wonga he discovered that he did, in fact, have another string to his bow other than music.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Daniel Hegarty: "I didn't chose Wonga, Wonga chose me"

"It quite quickly emerged I was a massive geek," he says.
"I'd spend my evenings reading text books on pure maths, and doing online courses from Stanford University [in California].
"Within a couple of months I was running a lot of the tech stuff."
But after a warm welcome from borrowers, Wonga's name became increasingly toxic.
In 2014 it wrote off 220m of debts for 330,000 struggling customers after discussions with regulators, and put in place new checks as to whether people could afford the loans they were taking out.
Was Daniel embarrassed to say he'd worked at Wonga?
"I didn't choose Wonga, Wonga chose me."
But, as one of its designers, could he be accused of failing to assess the risks properly?
"My job was fundamentally building the website - how to get someone to show up and share their info, and how to get the money lent when it was wanted, and collected when it was due."
He left as Wonga mushroomed to an international business with 1,000 employees, and he was, again, spending too much time on the road.
Once more at a loose end, Daniel did what rock musicians are often thought to do: "I sat in my pants on my sofa."
Image copyright Daniel Hegarty Image caption The idea for Habito came from Daniel's attempt to buy his first home

The spark of the idea for online mortgage brokerage Habito came from his attempt to buy his first home.
Daniel nearly lost out on the property after a series of mistakes by his mortgage broker.
He says they put down his wife's name, twice, alongside his own name.
This held up the process for 10 days, and when the form was corrected the third, extra name that was removed was not the duplicated wife, but his own.
Now it appeared his wife had sparked a clone who was also part of the loan.
The seller was on the brink of pulling out.
Daniel says: "I thought deeply about what I could do for a couple of months, and this is the best I came up with.
But I knew nothing about mortgages."
So he started studying the industry.
He spoke to mortgage brokers, lenders, and regulators in order to understand how it all worked, and he set about building Habito.
One criticism of the Habito app is that it removes the human touch.
Daniel says that at Habito there is a point at which you can speak to a real human being, but critics still say such an online-based system is less likely to find the perfect type of product for the borrower.
Jonathan Harris, director of independent mortgage broker Anderson Harris, says: "There are so many additional criteria that are required nowadays in a mortgage market search.
For example, the type of employment/self-employment, how income is made up, the type of contract, the type of property.
"While we welcome anything that speeds up the often torturously slow mortgage application process, face-to-face advice or over the phone will have a place for a while yet - although mortgage lenders and brokers need to improve their technological offerings."
Image copyright Habito Image caption Habito has now lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, says Daniel

As it stands, the world of mortgage broking is highly fragmented.
The UK's biggest player, London and Country, has only 6% of the domestic market to itself, so there is plenty of scope for challengers.
Daniel says there is simply "no visible limit to Habito's growth".
The company has been going for 16 months, he says, and every month it has grown 20%, so "every week is our busiest ever".
He says the London-based company has so far lent 250m to 50,000 borrowers, and employees have grown from eight to 45.
Daniel adds that running a proper business, initially seemed as unreal as being a rock star.
"At first I felt like I was dreaming, going round telling people I was the 'made up' CEO of a 'made-up' business."
But he says he can still be awkward.
"I will do what I want to do".
Daniel has also been able to return an early favour.
Remember the former opera-pop star?
She's now working for him as his corporate lawyer.
"There are quite a few second lifers in my business," he says.
Image copyright Getty Images

In Shanghai, an Uber driver logs into an online forum.
He is not looking for a passenger.
He is looking for someone to pretend to be a passenger.
He finds a willing taker.
He pretends to collect the customer and drop her at the airport.
In fact, they never meet.
Then he goes online and sends her the agreed fee: about $1.60 (1.20).
Or perhaps the driver goes a step further, making up the other person as well as the journey.
He goes to the online marketplace Taobao, and buys a hacked smartphone.
That lets him create multiple fake identities.
He uses one to arrange a ride with himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Uber invites customers to rate drivers, and drivers to rate customers

Why?
Because someone's willing to pay him to give people lifts in his car.
Rational economic incentives

Investors in Uber and their rivals have run up billions of dollars of losses - in China, and elsewhere - paying people to share car journeys.
Naturally, they're trying to stamp out the imaginary journeys, but they're convinced subsidising genuine rides is a smart idea.
This all seems bizarre, perverse, even.
But everyone involved is rationally pursuing economic incentives.
To see what's going on, we have to understand a phenomenon that's spawned many buzzwords: "crowd-based capitalism", "collaborative consumption", "the sharing economy", "the trust economy".
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Suppose I'm about to drive myself from downtown Shanghai to the airport.
I occupy only one seat in my car.
Now suppose you live a block away, and you also need to catch a flight.
Why don't I give you a lift?
You could pay me a modest sum, less than you'd pay for some other mode of transport.
You're better off.
I'm better off.
There are two big reasons why this might not happen.
The first, and most obvious, is if neither of us knows the other exists.
'Coincidental wants'

Until recently, the only way you could advertise your desire for a lift would be to stand at a junction, holding up a sign saying "airport".
It's not very practical - especially since the plane won't wait.
This function of matching people who have coincidental wants is among the most powerful ways the internet is reshaping the economy.
Traditional markets work perfectly well for some goods and services, but they're less useful when the goods and services are urgent or obscure.
Consider the plight of Mark Fraser.
It was 1995.
Mark Fraser gave lots of presentations, and he really wanted a laser pointer - they were new, and cool, but also forbiddingly expensive.
Image copyright EBAY Image caption For the first time, eBay connected people who wanted stuff with those who wanted to sell it

Fraser, however, was an electronics geek.
He was confident that if he could get his hands on a broken laser pointer, he could fix it.
But where on earth would he find a broken laser pointer?
The answer, now, is obvious - try Taobao, or eBay, or some other online marketplace.
Back then, eBay had only just started.
Its very first sale: Mark Fraser bought a broken laser pointer.
Mark Fraser was taking a bit of a risk.
He didn't know the seller.
He simply had to trust that they wouldn't simply pocket his $14.83 (11.20) then disappear.
For other transactions, the stakes are higher.
That's the second reason I might not give you a lift to Shanghai airport.
I've no idea who you are.
Perhaps you're planning to attack me and steal my car?
You might doubt my motives, too - perhaps I'm a serial killer.
Enablers of trust

After all, hitch-hiking was a popular pursuit a few decades ago, but fell out of fashion after some well-publicised murders.
Trust is an essential component of markets - so essential that we often don't even notice it, like a fish doesn't notice water.
In developed economies, enablers of trust are everywhere: brands, money-back guarantees, and of course repeat transactions with a seller who can be easily located.
But the new sharing economy lacks those enablers.
Why should we get into a stranger's car - or buy a stranger's laser pointer?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption AirBnB emphasises the personal connection between hosts and guests

In 1997, eBay introduced a feature that helped solve the problem: Seller Feedback.
According to Jim Griffith, eBay's first customer service representative, "no-one had ever seen anything like [it]".
The idea of both parties rating each other after a transaction has become ubiquitous.
You buy something online - you rate the seller, the seller rates you.
You use a lift-sharing service, like Uber - you rate the driver, the driver rates you.
You stay in an AirBnB - you rate the host, the host rates you.
A few positive reviews set our mind at ease about a stranger.
Jim Griffith says he's "not so sure [eBay] would have grown without [seller feedback]".
Spare capacity

Online matching platforms would still exist, of course - eBay already did - but perhaps they'd be more like hitch-hiking today: a niche pursuit for the unusually adventurous, not a mainstream activity that's transforming whole sectors of the economy.
Platforms like Uber and AirBnB, eBay and TaskRabbit create real value.
Image copyright Alamy Image caption TaskRabbit connects customers with so-called "Taskers" to help with a variety of odd jobs

But there are losers.
For all the touchy-feeliness of the buzzwords - "collaborative", "sharing", "trust" - these models aren't just heart-warming stories of neighbours coming together to borrow each other's power drills.
They can easily lead to cut-throat capitalism.
More from Tim Harford:

How the smartphone became so smart

Just Google it: The student project that changed the world

Money via mobile: The M-Pesa revolution

The surprising ways video games have shaped the economy

Established hotels and taxi companies are aghast at competition from AirBnB and Uber.
Is that just an incumbent trying to suppress competition?
Or are they right when they complain that the new platforms are ignoring important regulations?
Risk of discrimination?
Many countries have rules to protect workers, like guaranteed hours or working conditions or a minimum wage.
And many people on platforms like Uber aren't just monetising spare capacity.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A banner reading "No tourist flats" hangs from a balcony to protest against holiday rental apartments for tourists in Barcelona

They're trying to make a living, without the protections of a formal job - perhaps because a company liked Uber competed them out of a job.
Some regulations protect customers, too - for example, from discrimination.
Hotels can't legally refuse you a room if you're, say, a same-sex couple.
But hosts on AirBnb can choose to turn down guests after seeing not just your feedback but your photos.
AirBnb builds trust by emphasising the personal connection, and that means showing people prominent pictures of who they're dealing with.
That also invites people to act on their personal prejudices, consciously or otherwise.
People from ethnic minorities have been shown to suffer as a result.
What should be the 51st Thing?
Image copyright Getty Images

Tim Harford has discussed 50 things which he argues have made the modern economy.
Help choose the 51st thing by voting for one of these listener suggestions:

The credit card

Glass

Global Positioning System (GPS)

Irrigation

The pencil

The spreadsheet

You can vote on the 50 Things That Made the Modern Economy programme website.
Voting closes at 1200 GMT Friday 6 October 2017, and the winning 51st Thing will be announced in a special podcast on 28 October 2017.
How online matching platforms should be regulated is a dilemma causing lawmakers around the world to scratch their heads.
It matters because it's potentially huge business, especially in emerging markets where there isn't yet a culture of owning things like cars.
And it's a business with network effects: the more people use a platform, the more attractive it becomes.
That's why Uber and its rivals - Didi Chuxing in China, Grab in southeast Asia, Ola in India - have invested massively in subsidising rides and giving credits to new customers: they wanted to get big first.
And, naturally, some drivers have been tempted to defraud them.
Remember how they did it?
By using an online forum to find a willing fake customer, or an online marketplace to buy a hacked smartphone.
Matching people with the particular things they want really is useful.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lehman Brothers: Failed bank or malt whisky?
It's the bottle where everybody knows its name, and that is both its biggest asset and its biggest problem.
Lehman Brothers is no longer just the bank that defined the global financial crisis of a decade ago, it's now also a range of whiskies.
A London entrepreneur decided that the whole world should be able to taste one of the most profound company collapses in modern times.
On 15 September nine years ago 25,000 people lost their jobs when the bank went bankrupt.
James Green says he was inspired to keep the bank's name alive by the significance of those events.
"After living through the economic disaster of 2008, it really resounded with me.
I personally related to it, there were people in my neighbourhood, my family that were personally affected by the crash," he says.
He says his three different whiskies, one of which is named Ashes of Disaster, have been specially crafted to capture the flavour of the once mighty bank's fall from grace.
Image caption James Green says the whiskies aim to capture the flavour of Lehman Brothers' fall from grace

Getting the right to make them hasn't been a straightforward process.
Barclays Bank fought Mr Green's efforts to register a trademark for the whisky at New York State's Division of Corporations.
It unsuccessfully argued that it controls the Lehman Brothers name as part of the deal it struck to buy many of the bank's assets just after it went into meltdown and that the public would be confused into thinking the whisky was connected to the bank.
Barclays declined to comment on the dispute.
Using the Lehman's name to sell whisky is a clever idea according to Rob Malcolm.
The former head of marketing for the world's biggest whisky seller, Diageo, says he thinks "there will be an initial surge of appeal for its cleverness and its fun" but he says "after that's exhausted I'd be very surprised if there's much of a sustaining business there", although he does expect it to make a profit.
Dr Malcolm says that it will have greatest appeal amongst those working in the finance industry who can relate to the Lehman's story.
He adds that whisky aficionados are "disproportionately people who are economically successful", such as bankers.
Image copyright Lehman's Hardware Store Image caption Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store was founded in 1955

But for some firms, sharing a name with the collapsed Wall Street firm, has been more of a burden than a benefit.
Since 1955 Galen Lehman's eponymous family hardware store in the US state of Ohio has been selling everything from butter churns to oil lamps and handmade soap.
One of the company's wood stoves even featured in the film Back to the Future III.
But 20 years ago they nearly got burnt by Lehman Brothers, the bank.
It tried to stop the hardware store's efforts to become one of the first online retailers, when they registered the website lehmans.com.
Mr Lehman recalls that one of their lawyers called and said: "you can't use that name, that's us", to which he replied: "that's ironic it's me too".
Mr Lehman also remembers a similar call in the 1980s.
Despite the problems, some 40% of his business is now done online and over the ensuing years Mr Lehman says name confusion has probably helped send additional customers his way.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Lehman Brothers collapsed nine years ago on 15 September 2008

However it has also been a source of irritation and unwanted information, mainly thanks to the bank's own staff who sometimes confused the two companies domain names.
The bank's was www.lehman.com, while the shop's is www.lehmans.com.
"We started getting all these emails between employees of Lehman brothers in New York and in London", says Mr Lehman.
The messages gave him a front row seat into some of the worst excesses of the financial crisis.
Mr Lehman warned the bank and they eventually found a way to stop his inbox being inundated by emails that had "information about financial transactions, bank account numbers, all kinds of clearly confidential information".
However, Mr Lehman says it gave him a unique insight into the "play hard, work hard" culture of the bank.
"It seemed like as soon as people were outside of work they'd head straight to the corner pub.
And in one of the emails I remember in particular, one employee of Lehman Brothers was boasting to another employee of Lehman Brothers how he threw some bloke through a pub window the night before".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Anthony Shore

Of course, that kind of staff behaviour can be damaging to a company's reputation, something which goes hand in hand with a firm's name according to Anthony Shore.
Mr Shore runs Operative Words and is one of the world's most sought after people when it comes to naming new businesses and products, something which he can charge tens of thousands of dollars for.
While unintentional name coincidences are difficult to avoid, actively choosing to copy another firm's name is "audacious", says Mr Shore.
"It's hard to replicate the decades and decades of equity that are accrued when a company has been in business" for as long as the bank had, he says.
"The name becomes the crystallisation of everything that there is about the company, their reputation, their products their services for good or for ill," adds Mr Shore.
James Green acknowledges his whiskey plays on "the bad faith" people now have in the demised bank's name.
"We are playing on the Lehman brothers destruction," he says.
On both sides of the Atlantic there are many more court cases still to be heard over the failings of Lehman Brothers bank.
Even without the whiskey it's a name whose reputation is still being tested.
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Paris Image caption Tanya Heath Paris shoes come with changeable heels

"Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world," film star Marilyn Monroe once said.
But what constitutes "right" for women nowadays?
While high heels can make the wearer feel more confident, they aren't comfortable for long-term wearing.
This means that many women carry around a spare pair of flats with them.
But what if one pair of shoes could do both jobs?
Two small shoemaking firms, one in France and one in Germany, think they have the solution - women's shoes that come with interchangeable heels.
In her office in Ottawa, Canada, Olga Streltchenko is not just known as a top financial risk manager.
The 46-year-old also has a reputation for her shoes with removable heels.
"I am not very tall, so I like to be on high heels at work to enhance my presence," Mrs Streltchenko says.
"But I like to switch to lower, more comfortable heels to go home.
And if I plan on going out after work, I take a pair of metallic heels with me, which are more playful."
The shoes, by Tanya Heath Paris, allow women to change their style from professional to casual, fancy to comfortable, high to low, simply by switching their heels.
Image copyright Tanya Heath Image caption Tanya Heath, pictured, came up with the idea after moving to Paris

Designer Tanya Heath came up with the idea for her shoes after moving to Paris in 1996.
The Canadian, who spent years working for firms in the telecoms and energy sectors, was tired of having to change her shoes every time she arrived or left the office.
"I would arrive in ballerina pumps and change into heels, and my French colleagues ridiculed me," she says.
"They called me 'la New Yorkaise', because of the perception that New Yorkers wore trainers with suits while walking to work."
In 2009, with no experience in the fashion industry, Ms Heath finally began to develop the idea - all while juggling her responsibilities as a mother-of-three.
The biggest challenge was to make shoes that were comfortable and stylish, she says.
Since the 1980s, several firms had developed footwear with removable heels but none had been successful.
"Some of the other attempts out there were either awful-looking or worse, and they didn't really work, with the heels falling off," Mrs Heath says.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi's shoes come with a variety of heels

Backed by a team of designers and engineers, she came up with a "pick and choose concept".
First women buy the shoes, sandals, pumps or boots, then they buy the heels of their choice.
Prices range from 290 euros (260) for a pair of pumps, to 700 euros for a pair of leather boots.
Customers can choose between 400 different heels, which cost between 25 and 100 euros each.
Ms Heath says her first few years in business were tough, with no sales and little outside investment.
But the firm has since shipped to 72 countries and opened boutiques in France, Portugal and Canada.
"We get girls coming into the stores who are clearly still in school, and we have women shopping for shoes to wear to their daughter's wedding," Mrs Heath says.
The healthy sales at Tanya Heath Paris comes as the issue of whether women should wear high heels to work continues to spark controversy.
In April of this year, the Canadian province of British Columbia banned companies from being able to force women to wear high heels, while that same month the UK government rejected a petition calling for a similar ban in Britain.
Image copyright Press Association Image caption Women in British Columbia can no longer be forced to wear high heels to work

Hannah Rochell, founder of fashion blog EnBrogue.com, which promotes flat shoes, says: "While some women love to wear high heels, many would much rather opt for the comfort of flats, particularly when they're working in a business environment."
She adds that employers who enforce heels-only dress codes not only denigrate women, but are also "completely out of touch".
For firms that make shoes with removable heels, their products merely offer women choice.
Take Mime et moi, which was founded by four men from Munich, Germany.
After a night out together, they noticed that their partners had all gone home barefoot because their feet were sore from wearing high heels.
One of the men, a student of mechanical engineering and construction, then set about finding a solution.
"We immediately thought it was something that was absolutely missing," says Tim Haas, 31, one of the firm's co-founders.
Image copyright Mime et moi Image caption Mime et moi

"We wanted to create a shoe for women that looked amazing, sexy and feminine, but which had a comfort function."
They set up Mime et moi in 2013, and sold their first shoe three years later.
The firm's removable heels range from 3cm tall to 11cm, and cost between 175 and 205 euros.
More stories from the BBC's Business Brain series looking at quirky or unusual business topics from around the world:

Do the colours you wear at work matter?
Turning the dead into vinyl records

How Sicilian oranges are being made into clothes

Elvis still earning a fortune 40 years after his death

While some firms are focusing on removable heels, Californian Dolly Singh claims she has instead used engineering prowess to invent comfortable high heel shoes.
In 2013 she gave up her job as head of talent acquisition at SpaceX, the rocket company led by tech billionaire Elon Musk, to pursue a personal project - creating shoes that don't make your feet sore.
Ms Singh put together a team of experts from fashion, architecture, medicine and engineering, including specialists who worked for SpaceX and Nasa, the US space agency.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Dolly Singh gave up a job at SpaceX to create her shoes

She then launched her own business, Thesis Couture, and began selling the shoes that they had created.
"I ripped apart a pair of high heels to find out what was causing my feet to hurt so much," says Ms Singh.
"Inside each heel was a metal shank, which had no give, and was clearly not foot friendly."
The problem, she says, is that high heels are badly engineered.
Image copyright Thesis Couture Image caption Ms Singh says her soles "more intuitively" map the shape of the foot

"The way heels are currently designed causes 80% of one's body weight to be on the balls of the feet and also causes the toes to curve slightly inward.
"What we did was shift that back to 60% by re-engineering the structure and designing our own shank, which is made of a strong-but-flexible polymer."
Thesis Couture sells its footwear online and now ships to most countries.
Mrs Singh managed to raise more than $1.5m (1.1m) in investment, in 2015 and anticipates sales of $1m in 2017.
An Israeli company called Colu has launched a local digital currency in Liverpool, which aims to revitalise the local economy by cutting out the banks.
Will it achieve more than paper local currencies have?
To find out, Dougal Shaw followed the money trail.
Large chains like Starbucks, Costa or McDonald's, need not apply.
This new digital currency, known both as Colu and Local Pound Liverpool, is only open to locally owned and run businesses.
The idea is to encourage people to support the local economy.
Local currencies are common around the world - there are more than 10 in the UK.
The idea behind them is that if you spend your money with a locally based company instead of a big chain, more of that money will continue to circulate locally.
It won't be sucked out of your community into a company's foreign headquarters, or be paid out to shareholders.
But these currencies rarely attract enough users to have a real economic impact.
Could Colu be different?
As well as being purely digital - running on a smartphone app - it is operated by a well-funded tech company that specialises in cryptocurrencies.
In many other cases, local currencies are run by a small resource-starved team of enthusiasts and volunteers.
I went to see who is actually using this new currency, from a man buying his weekly sausages to the assistant mayor of Liverpool.
The customer

Foodie Ian Rasmussen is one of 17,000 Liverpudlians who have signed up to use Colu.
I meet him at a deli called Delifonseca, where he is buying some sausages.
"I believe in local businesses, so I like to promote what they are doing through my consumption.
One makes ethical decisions every day in the shops and I choose to buy locally because they tend to be more particular about where they get their food from.
They tend to be better employers and re-invest in the community."
The app is easy to use, he says, which is one of the things that makes it appealing.
But local currencies appeal to Ian for another reason.
"Since the financial crash of 2008, businesses have completely fallen out of love with the banking system and realised how ruinous it can be.
It's nice if local businesses can get round the inconvenience of banks that don't understand them."
When Ian pays for his sausages at the till, the transaction is made purely through the app, with no bank involved.
Ian has to buy his Colu pounds with normal UK pounds from his bank account.
They are worth exactly the same.
At the moment, a complimentary 5 is offered to new joiners and 10% is added every time money is paid in.
This is funded by Colu, in a bid to get more people like Ian to join.
Colu has a lot of venture capital behind it and investors are keen to see it grab market share, like Uber or Deliveroo.
The business owner

Candice Fonseca runs the deli where Ian purchased his sausages.
It is one of more than 100 businesses accepting the local digital currency.
"Liverpool has a very strong sense of identity and in this globalised time people are more conscious of their localities," she says.
"We have customers who don't carry wallets, it's inevitable that currency will become phone-based.
"It's also cheaper for us.
Customers can't really get their head around how much we pay for banking.
Even to put cash into the bank as a business, we have to pay.
The idea [with Colu] is to keep the money flowing locally.
We'd like to give staff the option of taking Colu as part of their wages eventually."
Normally businesses pay a charge every time a customer uses a debit card (about 0.5-1%) or credit card (about 1-2%).
A transaction in Colu incurs zero charge for the business.
However, whenever anyone converts Colu back to normal UK pounds - cashing out, as it is known - they pay 1.5% commission.
This is how Colu makes its money.
"If you pay another business [in Colu], then you don't pay anything, it's the cheapest way of taking money in that case.
We're not cashing anything out.
So we pay suppliers like Sugar & Lime, who we get our hire equipment from for outside catering, in Colu.
We spend thousands with them."
The supplier

More than a quarter of a million local pounds have circulated so far in Liverpool.
But somebody needs to cash out at some stage and take the hit of 1.5%.
One of them is Anthony O'Leary, who runs the catering equipment firm Sugar & Lime, which supplies Candice's deli.
His warehouse contains supplies from around the world, which can't be bought with local currency.
"We cash out our local currency because we're the end of the line.
There's nobody for us to spend the local pound with at present.
"But there is scope for products that we buy to be manufactured more locally, in which case we could continue the chain," he says.
Although Anthony would prefer to be paid in cash, he says it's not a clear-cut decision.
"I've still got banking charges one way or another.
Cash is expensive, credit card fees, it's all at a cost."
Colu also brings him new customers, he says, so in that sense it's a good investment.
Anthony can also see another way for him to pass on the Colu currency and avoid the 1.5% charge - he could pay business rates in the local currency.
This is what happens in Brixton and Bristol.
But first the council has to agree to it.
The councillor

Gary Millar is assistant mayor of Liverpool and a technology enthusiast.
He is a user of the app and a fan of local digital currencies in general.
"A council like Liverpool could use this to ensure money stays local.
We know when people spend money locally with an independent, 65p in the pound stays local.
If they spend it with a big global organisation, it will be about 30p instead," he says.
"I think it's wonderful if a small business can pay its business rates using a digital currency - I'd love that to happen."
He says this would only be a logical extension of what is happening at the moment, and hints that discussions are taking place about the possibility of allowing business rates, planning fees and even parking fine to be paid in the new currency.
Millar says he could also imagine the council paying people with it, as long as this was done on an opt-in basis.
The council pays some benefits on behalf of the government and of course it pays wages to its workforce - these could in theory be paid in Colu.
Millar is at pains to make clear that if such a payment system were adopted, Colu would have to take part in an open selection process.
The economist

Duncan McCann is an economist with New Economics Foundation who researches local digital currencies.
He thinks local digital currencies like Colu are a good idea, but he has some serious reservations.
"Local currencies seek to stop money escaping, the 'leaky bucket' argument we call it.
They try to keep it circulating in your own community to do more good.
"Most local currency designs maximise the potential for the money to stick.
There is some irony that this model that Colu is offering at its core extracts money to the mother company, which in this case is Colu [in Israel]."
Most other local currencies in the UK and Europe are run on a not-for-profit basis, he says.
The incentives Colu offers to new joiners can only last so long, he suggests.
"The big danger is that if no profit is being made, or worse they start making a loss, that they will just cancel the app and all the hard work is lost in an instant.
"Then it becomes very hard to start another local currency because there is so much bad feeling."
Transaction complete

Colu has been up and running in Liverpool since December.
It also runs similar currencies in Tel Aviv and Haifa, both under two years old.
It is free of the financial overheads that come with a paper currency and its deep pockets allow it to provide incentives to users, at least for now, and to employ someone to recruit new businesses into the scheme.
Its backers think it can mount a challenge to global capitalism and multinational corporations.
Its fate depends on how many people vote with their digital wallets.
Watch the video and radio reports by Dougal Shaw on Liverpool's local digital currency for BBC World Hacks
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The spice saffron is known as "red gold"

The spice saffron, as well as being famously expensive, is packed with antioxidants.
It is said to help combat depression and lower blood pressure, to soften your skin and hair and is essential in a broad range of dishes from Swedish buns to paella.
So what's stopping it becoming as fashionable as turmeric and cinnamon?
Is it just its high price?
In my palm I have five tiny strands, like pieces of slightly fraying dark red sewing thread, which smell rather like a fruity tobacco.
Four of them I'm placing into a cup and dousing with warm water; they're destined for the cooking pot.
The fifth I place on my tongue.
I'm told this taste test is essential to check that what I'm using is proper saffron.
After all, if you've spent more than 5 for a gram of anything, you want to be sure it's the real thing.
And after a few seconds I'm gratified that, despite having languished at the back of my spice cupboard for quite some time, the tiny threads are still capable of imparting the heady floral aroma, the honey notes, and the slight astringency I've been promised.
And the strands in the water are leaching an orangey hue, as they should.
Saffron is central to national cuisines from Morocco to the Himalayas, essential to dishes from risotto Milanese to Kashmiri curry.
As well as being a sought-after culinary ingredient the versatile spice is also increasingly being added to medications and cosmetics.
Image copyright Rumi Spice

What is saffron used for?
Cleopatra used it to infuse her bathwater.
Alexander the Great bathed his battle wounds with it and drank saffron tea.
In the 14th Century it was used to combat bubonic plague

It is a key ingredient in dishes from Spanish paella, to Persian rice dishes and Indian curries

It is added to products from coffee to salt, skin creams to shampoos.
Saffron has been used in traditional medicine to treat menstrual problems, depression, asthma and sexual dysfunction

It has been trialled in research for conditions from memory loss to cancer, but the evidence so far is inconclusive

And yet the reputation of the spice, dubbed "red gold", still does not glister quite as brightly as perhaps it should.
Keith Alaniz, an American soldier-turned-entrepreneur, thinks he understands why.
After serving in Afghanistan, he and two other veterans decided to establish a social enterprise based on a crop that could offer locals better returns than illegal opium poppy cultivation.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption Rumi Spice co-founder Keith Alaniz with Afghan crocus farmers

Their company, Rumi Spice, buys saffron crocuses from local growers and employs 380 Afghan women to do the painstaking work of separating the tiny rust-red stigmas in the centre of the crocus from its petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head, prior to being dried and packed for export.
It's those long laborious hours of work that makes saffron so expensive.
Rumi Spice sells its saffron - higher grade than the one from my kitchen cupboard - for $18 (14) per gram.
Mr Alaniz says saffron's high price tag is the reason it has so much promise in war torn Afghanistan.
But it is also in many ways the root of its biggest problem: it makes it extremely tempting for counterfeiters.
"A lot of the reason saffron hasn't taken off is because of the adulteration that you've seen."
He says they're battling against the disappointment some shoppers have felt in the past.
They've spent money on an extravagant product, only to find it didn't have much flavour because it was substandard or even fake saffron.
"What we've seen with chefs and foodies is, once they see what high quality saffron tastes like, they're blown away by the flavour and aroma," says Mr Alaniz.
Image copyright Rumi Spice Image caption The tiny rust-red stigmas need to be painstakingly separated from the petals, stamens and the rest of the flower head

Their saffron is now doing well with specialist buyers and high end restaurants.
And they hope to rebuild its reputation amongst ordinary consumers in the same way.
But the plan will only work if the product consistently delivers on its promise; and despite recent efforts to introduce more rigorous standards, stories continue to circulate of horse hairs, corn silks, and shredded paper, all masquerading as saffron.
Earlier this year there were reports of the synthetic food colourings tartrazine and sunset yellow being used in counterfeit powdered saffron.
Sally Francis, botanist and saffron grower, says only a few weeks ago she saw safflower, a common substitute from the unrelated thistle family, being sold as saffron in a street market in the Netherlands.
And she's met plenty of tourists returning from exotic holidays with what they thought was bargain saffron, only to find out it was bogus.
Even legitimate saffron can vary enormously depending on how it's produced, she says.
"You can have a huge range in saffron quality, with no indication on the packaging as to what you are buying," says Ms Francis.
Often it's simply that careless harvesting has meant some of the flavourless parts of the crocus have found their way into the final mix.
It's still saffron but rather than "packing a punch" like the purest spice, what you're basically getting is "expensive yellow food colouring," she says.
"The difference between a grade I and a grade III that's huge.
You're talking Trabant and Lamborghini," she says.
How to check if saffron is genuine

Check it has strands which are frayed at one end

Look for a deep red hue that colours water orangey-yellow when submerged

Smell it and put it on your tongue - fake saffron has very little aroma or flavour

Real saffron will smell slightly fruity and floral

It should taste sweet and bitter at the same time

Ms Francis produces saffron on a small scale in Norfolk.
The UK is a tiny player in the global saffron market, despite a saffron tradition going back several centuries.
But it is one of many countries from New Zealand to Germany, Greece to India, where producers are recognising the potential for high-grade saffron, with transparent country of origin and quality labelling, to reassure consumers that it is worth the high price tag.
In Iran which supplies around 90% of the world's saffron, there are signs that traceability and certification are becoming priorities.
"We are trying to show the quality of Iranian saffron to other people in the world," says Mehrdad Rowhani, chief executive of a family-owned wholesaler from Mashhad, the city at the heart of Iran's saffron growing region.
After years hampered by American sanctions, which meant a lot of Iranian saffron ended up exported in bulk to be repackaged and sold as "produce of Spain" or sold via backdoor bartering deals, Iranian producers are again able to sell directly to western customers.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Under sanctions Iran struggled to make the most of its saffron potential

This could have more impact than anything else on the standard of saffron available to ordinary shoppers, as Iran's producers embrace the opportunity to emphasise the authenticity, origin and quality of their product.
Mr Rowhani says his firm's exports have already more than doubled since sanctions were lifted.
"We started exporting to the United States and we have good - and big - customers from there," he says.
Now he's focusing on improving every step of the production process from planting, harvesting and drying, to selling in smaller, better designed packaging.
"When they see Persian saffron is of high quality, they want to buy more," he adds.
Image caption Florence Cheptoo began to learn to read when her grandchild brought home a library book

What's it like to read your first words at the age of 60?
What difference does it make after a lifetime of getting by without reading?
If you think about how much written information we consume every hour - going through emails at work or flicking through messages on mobiles phone - it's hard to imagine being without these ways of communicating.
But Florence Cheptoo, who lives in an isolated rural village near Chesongoch, in Kenya, has turned her first page as a 60-year-old.
Her path to reading began when her granddaughter brought home books from primary school.
The school had been given a small lending library of books, through the Book Aid International charity that distributes books donated by UK publishers.
But many of the parents and grandparents of the schoolchildren were themselves unable to read, and teachers began literacy lessons for adults.
Florence, forwarding her answers to the BBC through a local librarian, said she now felt "part of those who are in the modern world".
Image caption Adult literacy classes began after the library was opened

When she had been younger, there had been no support for her to become literate, she said.
Her parents had wanted her to marry and to get a dowry and stay tending livestock - and there had never been a chance to learn.
"My parents did not value the need for education," she said.
It meant that she couldn't sign her name or read any legal documents or check if she was being cheated over payments.
Now, Florence has begun reading and lists the practical differences it has made in her life.
She can read the information on medicine she is prescribed, she can look at newspapers and find out about the outside world and take charge of her own personal records.
Image caption Florence says that learning to read has brought more control over her life, as well as pleasure

There are things she said she particularly enjoyed: reading storybooks for the first time, getting letters from her family and being able to read the Bible for herself.
The world of maps has been opened up.
"I like knowing where other parts of the country are located," she said.
And she has been getting books on agriculture "so that I can learn how to farm".
When her grandchildren get school reports, she can see how they are progressing.
It had given her a new confidence, she said, letting her feel more knowledgeable and able to have an opinion alongside people, either literate or illiterate.
"I am able to identify what is good and bad in society."
Florence wasn't the oldest member of this adult literacy class.
There was also a man in his 80s.
His eyesight wasn't very good and he didn't really think he would become much of a reader - but he told the teachers that he wanted to be seen regularly at the class to send a message to the rest of the village that this was important.
More from Global education

Ideas for the Global education series?
Get in touch.
The Book Aid International charity distributes a million free books a year, new from publishers, with further grants to buy books locally and to train librarians and teaching staff.
Most of the books go to projects in Africa, where they are shared in libraries.
Image caption The village is in a remote part of Kenya

Emma Taylor, from Book Aid International, has visited the scheme in Kenya where Florence is learning and says there is a great demand for learning there - which the library helps to serve.
"It's an incredibly powerful experience," she said, seeing people reading for the first time.
"It opens the door to so many different things that we take so much for granted."
Setting up libraries in deprived communities had a particular value, she said.
In the slums of Nairobi, she said, libraries had become a place of safety for young people, where they could feel protected, and then could begin exploring the books around them and opening up their minds to ideas.
"There's something really special about a library.
It's not just putting books in a room," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock was a key sponsor for Newcastle United

In the summer of 2007, Newcastle had much to look forward to.
The Toon - Newcastle United - had a new owner, the billionaire retail tycoon Mike Ashley, and much was expected under the management of Sam Allardyce.
The performance of the team's shirt sponsor, Northern Rock, was a source of pride; after decades of hard times following the end of shipbuilding and mining, the North East had a new economic champion, one that was giving the financial services giants of the South a real run for their money.
The former building society had demutualised and scaled the heights of the FTSE 100, the elite club of Britain's biggest quoted companies, and in the process had become the fourth biggest bank in the UK by share of lending.
The chairman, Matt Ridley, summed it up in the annual report, lauding "another excellent year" and said "our strategy of using growth, cost efficiency and credit quality to reward both shareholders and customers continues to run well."
Toxic fuel

A few months later, Northern Rock's empire was in ruins.
The fuel it had used to grow so quickly turned out to be toxic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Northern Rock had borrowed heavily on the international money markets

Rather than using customer deposits as the source of funds to lend out to homeowners, it borrowed in the international money markets.
When the sub-prime crisis hit America, those markets took fright, and stopped lending to anything that looked like it might be over-exposed to the housing market.
Northern Rock was an obvious first casualty.
The BBC broke the news that it needed Bank of England support 10 years ago tomorrow, and the day after there were queues outside branches, the first run on a British bank in 150 years.
After limping on for a few more months, Northern Rock was nationalised in February 2008.
Regional shock

Councillor Nick Forbes, leader of Newcastle City Council, remembers walking out of the civic offices to nearby Northumberland Street where Northern Rock had its main city centre branch.
"There was a queue outside going right down the street.
That really was the first sign that something was wrong.
No-one really saw it coming."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Customers queued for hours to take out their savings

Northern Rock's demise - it was split into "bad" and "good" sets of assets and operations, with Virgin Money buying the latter - was a shock to the region's economy, as was the banking crisis that followed.
"We were early into recession and late out," said Mr Forbes.
"It's only now really that we have recaptured that lost ground."
About 2,500 jobs were lost.
There was another heavy blow, little understood outside the North East - the loss of the Northern Rock Foundation, a charitable trust which received 5% of the bank's profits each year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Many who lost their savings want the government to change its mind on compensation

It had given 235m to good causes before the bank was nationalised and broken up.
Mr Forbes is now pressing the Treasury to give back some of the profits it expects to make from its intervention on Northern Rock to make up for the loss of the foundation.
Northern Rock shareholders are also making a claim on the potential profits, which independent experts think could eventually reach about 8bn.
An association of small shareholders, many of whom lost their life savings when the bank was nationalised, has asked the chancellor to think again on compensation, which has been denied before.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Any surplus from Northern Rock's privatisation should go to taxpayers, says the Treasury

Jon Wood, a fund manager who was a big Northern Rock shareholder and has been severely critical of the Bank of England's action, is also thought be to considering fresh legal action.
The Treasury has said that any surplus from the Northern Rock nationalisation should compensate taxpayers for the amounts risked in the rescue.
Lessons learned

A decade on, important strands of "the run on the Rock" story are only now being uncovered.
In an interview with the BBC Gary Hoffman, who was parachuted in as chief executive after privatisation, said he found an organisation with an unquestioning - and unhappy - culture.
"The management had completely lost touch with the coal face, and did not know what was happening.
There was an attitude that you did not question what was going on, which was a tragedy because there were extremely good people at the bank."
Hoffman reveals that the Treasury had considered all options for the future of the bank when he was in charge - not just a sale to a banking rival, but also a refloating of the bank as an independent business, and its complete run-down and closure.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The collapse was the first sign in Britain of the coming global financial crisis

Other senior banking sources have told the BBC that the last option - closure - was the favourite right up until Christmas Eve 2008, when the bank's leadership was able to convince the Treasury it could be sold as a going concern.
Mr Hoffman says that the UK's banking sector is now safer than in the run-up to the crisis, with greater capital reserves at the big institutions.
Others disagree, however, saying the increases have been largely illusory.
Kevin Dowd, professor of finance and economics at the University of Durham, says changes in bank regulations have not greatly improved banks' resilience.
"The Bank of England looks at the book value of bank assets - the value that they themselves put on their assets.
But if you look at the stock market, investors don't believe it because most of our big banks have stock market values less than their book values."
Image caption Senobar Johnsen says it's "visibly noticeable" that Swedes prefer cards to cash these days

Sweden is the most cashless society on the planet, with barely 1% of the value of all payments made using coins or notes last year.
So how did the Nordic nation get so far ahead of the rest of us?
Warm cinnamon buns are stacked next to mounds of freshly-baked sourdough bread at a neighbourhood coffee shop in Kungsholmen, just west of Stockholm city centre.
Amongst the other typically Scandinavian touches - minimalist white tiles and exposed filament light bulbs - is another increasingly common sight in the Swedish capital: a "We don't accept cash" sign.
"We wanted to minimise the risk of robberies and it's quicker with the customers when they pay by card," says Victoria Nilsson, who manages two of the bakery chain's 16 stores across the city.
"It's been mainly positive reactions.
We love to use our cards here in Stockholm."
Across the country, cash is now used in less than 20% of transactions in stores - half the number five years ago, according to the Riksbank, Sweden's central bank.
Coins and banknotes have been banned on buses for several years after unions raised concerns over drivers' safety.
Even tourist attractions have started to gamble on taking plastic-only payments, including Stockholm's Pop House Hotel and The Abba Museum.
Image caption Bjorn Ulvaeus (left) back in his Abba heyday.
Now he's a keen supporter of a cashless Sweden.
The iconic band's Bjorn Ulvaeus is, in fact, one of the nation's most vocal supporters of Sweden's cash-free trend, after his son lost cash in an apartment burglary.
Smaller retailers are jumping on the bandwagon, too, making use of home-grown technologies such as iZettle, the Swedish start-up behind Europe's first mobile credit card reader.
Such portable technologies have enabled market traders - and even homeless people promoting charity magazines - to take card payments easily.
"I took my kids to the funfair and there was a guy selling balloons and he had a card machine with him," remarks Senobar Johnsen, one of the Swedish customers back at the bakery.
Currently living in Portsmouth in southern England, she's visiting Sweden for the first time in a year and says it's "visibly noticeable" that people are paying more with cards.
"It's not like the UK where there's often a minimum spend when you go to a kiosk or you're in the middle of nowhere.
I think it's great".
Swish, a smartphone payment system, is another popular Swedish innovation used by more than half the country's 10 million strong population.
Image caption Signs like this are becoming increasingly common in Sweden

Backed by the major banks, it allows customers to send money securely to anyone else with the app, just by using their mobile number.
A staple at flea markets and school fetes, it's also a popular way to transfer money instantly between friends: Swedes can no longer get away with delaying their share of a restaurant bill using the excuse that they're short on cash.
"In general, consumers are very interested in new technologies, so we're quite early to adopt [them]," explains Niklas Arvidsson, a professor at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology.
This is partly down to infrastructure (Sweden is among the most connected countries in the EU); a relatively small population that is an ideal test-bed for innovations; and the country's historically low corruption levels, he argues.
"Swedes tend to trust banks, we trust institutions... people are not afraid of the sort-of 'Big Brother' issues or fraud connected to electronic payment."
Somewhat paradoxically, Sweden's decision to update its coins and banknotes, a move announced by the Riksbank in 2010 and fully implemented this year, actually boosted cashless transactions, explains Prof Arvidsson.
"You would have thought that a new kind of cash would have created an interest, but the reaction seems to have been the opposite," he says.
"Some retailers thought it's easier not to accept these new forms of cash because there's learning to be done, maybe investment in cash registration machines and so-on."
There has also been a "ripple effect", he says, with more shops signing up to the cashless idea as it becomes increasingly socially acceptable.
Image caption Former Interpol president Bjorn Eriksson is worried about a cashless future

Riksbank figures reveal that the average value of Swedish krona in circulation fell from around 106 billion (10bn) in 2009 to 65 billion (6bn) in 2016.
Barely 1% of the value of all payments were made using coins or notes last year, compared to around 7% across the EU and in the US.
Prof Arvidsson predicts that the use of cash will most likely be reduced to "a very marginal payment form" by 2020.
Retailers seem to agree.
A survey - not yet published - of almost 800 small retailers carried out by his research team found that two thirds of respondents said they anticipated phasing out cash payments completely by 2030.
But the trend is not to everyone's liking, as Bjorn Eriksson, formerly national police commissioner and president of Interpol, explains from the suburb of Alvik.
Here, his local coffee shop still accepts old-fashioned money, but several of the banks no longer offer cash deposits or over-the-counter withdrawals.
"I like cards.
I'm just angry because about a million people can't cope with cards: the elderly, former convicts, tourists, immigrants.
The banks don't care because [these groups] are not profitable," he argues.
The 71-year-old is the face of a national movement called Kontantupproret (Cash Rebellion), which is also concerned about identity theft, rising consumer debt and cyber-attacks.
"This system could easily be disturbed or manipulated.
Why invade us when it's so easy?
Just cut off the payment system and we're completely helpless," says Mr Eriksson.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

His arguments haven't escaped the notice of politicians in Sweden, where debates about security are increasingly making their way onto the agenda in the wake of a government agency data leak that almost brought down the ruling coalition in July.
Meanwhile, the backdrop of an increasingly divided electorate suggests that rural and elderly voters could prove crucial in the Nordic country's next general election, scheduled for September 2018.
Back at Stockholm's Royal Institute of Technology, Prof Arvidsson points out that while most Swedes have embraced the nation's cash-free innovations, two thirds don't want to get rid of notes and coins completely.
"There's a very strong emotional connection to cash among Swedes, even though they do not use it," he says.
Sweden may leading the global trend towards a cashless future, but its tech-savvy population also appears to be guided by another, more traditional Swedish trait: caution.
Image copyright Getty Images

Almost 750 years ago, a young Venetian merchant named Marco Polo wrote a remarkable book chronicling his travels in China.
The Book of the Marvels of the World was full of strange foreign customs that Marco claimed to have seen.
But there was one that was so extraordinary, Marco Polo could barely contain himself: "Tell it how I might," he wrote, "you never would be satisfied that I was keeping within truth and reason."
What had excited Marco so much?
He was one of the first Europeans to witness an invention that remains at the foundation of the modern economy: paper money.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations which have helped create the economic world in which we live.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Of course, the paper itself isn't the point.
Modern paper money isn't made of paper - it's made of cotton fibres or plastic.
And the Chinese money that so fascinated Marco Polo wasn't quite paper either.
It was made from a black sheet derived from the bark of mulberry trees, signed by multiple officials and, with a seal smothered in bright red vermilion, authenticated by the Chinese emperor Kublai Khan himself.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kublai Khan announced that officially stamped mulberry bark was money - and lo, it was

The chapter of Marco Polo's book was titled, somewhat breathlessly: "How the great Khan Causes the Bark of Trees, Made into Something Like Paper, to Pass for Money All over His Country".
The point is, that whatever these notes were made of, their value didn't come from the preciousness of the substance, as with a gold or silver coin.
Instead, the value was created purely by the authority of the government.
'Genius' system

Paper money is sometimes called fiat money - the Latin word "fiat" means "let it be done".
The Great Khan announces that officially stamped mulberry bark is money - and lo, let it be done.
Money it is.
The genius of this system amazed Marco Polo, who explained that the paper money circulated as though it were gold or silver itself.
Where was all the gold that wasn't circulating?
Well, the emperor kept a tight hold of that.
The Mulberry money itself wasn't new when Marco Polo heard about it.
It had emerged nearly three centuries earlier, around the year 1000 in Sichuan, China.
Sichuan was a frontier province, bordered by foreign and sometimes hostile states.
China's rulers didn't want valuable gold and silver currency to leak into foreign lands, and so they imposed a bizarre rule.
Sichuan had to use coins made of iron.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption These Chinese coins dating back to the Song Dynasty (960-1279) were found in 2005

Iron coins aren't terribly practical.
If you traded in a handful of silver coins - 50g worth - you'd be given your own body weight in iron coins.
Even something simple like salt was worth more, gram for gram, than iron - so if you went to the market for groceries, your sackful of coins on the way there would weigh more than the bag of goods that you brought back.
Sichuan merchants had a problem, as William Goetzmann explains in his book Money Changes Everything.
It was illegal to use gold and silver coins, and impractical to use iron coins.
It's no surprise that they began to experiment with an alternative.
That alternative was called "jiaozi", or "exchange bills".
Instead of carrying around a wagonload of iron coins, a well-known and trusted merchant would write an IOU, and promise to pay his bill later when it was more convenient for everyone.
That was a simple enough idea.
But then there was a twist, a kind of economic magic.
These "jiaozi", or IOUs, started to trade freely.
More from Tim Harford:

The warrior monks who invented banking

What makes gambling wrong but insurance right?
How the invention of paper changed the world

What tally sticks tell us about how money works

Suppose I supply some goods to the eminently reputable Mr Zhang, and he gives me an IOU.
When I go to your shop later, rather than paying you with iron coins - who does that?
- I could write you an IOU.
Primitive paper money

But it might be simpler - and indeed you might prefer it - if instead I give you Mr Zhang's IOU.
After all, we both know he's good for the money.
Now you, and I, and Mr Zhang, have together created a kind of primitive paper money - it's a promise to repay that has a marketable value of its own - and can be passed around from person to person without being redeemed.
This is very good news for Mr Zhang, because as long as people keep finding it convenient simply to pass on his IOU as a way of paying for things, Mr Zhang never actually has to stump up the iron coins.
Effectively, he enjoys an interest-free loan for as long as his IOU continues to circulate.
Better still, it's a loan that he may never be asked to repay.
Image copyright British Library Board Or.12380/2286/22 Image caption A fragment of one of the earliest surviving banknotes, which was printed in the early 1260s

No wonder the Chinese authorities started to think these benefits ought to accrue to them, rather than to the likes of Mr Zhang.
At first they regulated the issuance of jiaozi, but then outlawed private jiaozi and took over the whole business themselves.
Modern step

The official jiaozi currency was a huge hit, circulating across regions and even internationally.
In fact, the jiaozi even traded at a premium, because they were so much easier to carry around than metal coins.
Initially, the government-issued jiaozi could be redeemed for coins on demand, exactly as the private jiaozi had been.
This was logical: it treated the paper notes as a placeholder for something of real value.
But the government soon moved stealthily to a fiat system, maintaining the principle but abandoning the practice of redeeming jiaozi for metal.
Bring an old jiaozi in to the government treasury to be redeemed, and you would receive a crisp new jiaozi.
That was a very modern step.
The money we use today all over the world is created by central banks and it's backed by nothing in particular except the promises to replace old notes with fresh ones.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The oldest known British bank note, issued by the Bank of England in 1699

We've moved from a situation where Mr Zhang's IOU circulates without ever being redeemed, to the mind-bending situation where the government's IOUs circulate despite never being redeemed.
Temptation

For governments, fiat money represents a temptation: a government with bills to pay can simply print more money.
And when more money chases the same amount of goods and services, prices tend to go up.
The temptation quickly proved too great to resist.
The Song dynasty issued too many jiaozi.
Counterfeiting was also a problem.
Within a few decades of its invention in the early 11th century, jiaozi was devalued and discredited, trading at just 10% of its face value.
Other countries have since suffered much worse.
Weimar Germany and Zimbabwe are famous examples of economies collapsing into chaos as excessive money-printing rendered prices meaningless.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Zimbabwe has seen extraordinarily high inflation

The abysmal world record for hyperinflation is held by Hungary in 1946, where prices trebled during the course of every day.
Walk into a Budapest cafe back then, and it was better to pay for your coffee when you arrived, not when you left.
The gold standard

These rare but terrifying episodes have convinced some economic radicals that fiat money can never be stable.
They yearn for a return to the days of the gold standard, when paper money could always be redeemed for a little piece of the precious metal held inside Fort Knox.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gold has been used as currency for thousands of years

But mainstream economists generally now believe that pegging the money supply to gold is a terrible idea.
Most regard low and predictable inflation as no problem at all - perhaps even a useful lubricant to economic activity.
And while we may not always be able to trust central bankers to print just the right amount of new money, it probably makes more sense than trusting miners to dig up just the right amount of new gold.
The ability to fire up the printing presses is especially useful in crisis situations.
After the 2007 financial crisis, the US Federal Reserve pumped trillions of dollars into the economy, without creating inflation.
In fact, the printing presses were metaphorical: those trillions were simply created by key-strokes on computers in the global banking system.
As a wide-eyed Marco Polo might have put it: "The great Central Bank Causes the Digits on a Computer Screen, Made into Something Like Spreadsheets, to Pass for Money".
Technology has changed, but what passes for money continues to astonish.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
WHO wants mediocrity?
That is what a lot of people say when the subject of index-tracking, or passive fund management, comes up.
They would rather choose a fund manager (an active manager in the jargon) who tries to beat the market by picking the best stocks.
It does sound like a good idea.
The tricky bit is finding the right manager.
The temptation is to look at past performance but fund managers rarely beat the market for long .
The average fund manager is always going to struggle to beat the market (this is a separate argument from whether markets are efficient).
That is because the index reflects the performance of the average investor before costs.
In a world dominated by professional fund managers, there aren't enough amateurs for the professionals to beat.
Even the hedge funds, those supposed masters of the universe, haven't been able to do it; Warren Buffett looks set to win a $1m bet on the issue.
But the last 12 months have seen a revival of the fortunes of active managers and there is talk that the cycle has turned .
Individual stocks seem less correlated with each other than during the 2010-2015 period; small stocks, which aren't included in some indices, are doing well.
In Britain, a very high proportion of funds beat the market over the last year; US funds also seem to have done so well.
The table, from Standard & Poors, shows how many European-domiciled funds (investing in a wide range of markets) have managed to beat the market over one, three, five and 10 years.
Eight out of 19 categories managed the feat over one year, but that drops to four categories over three years, three over five years and none over 10 years.
In most categories over 10 years, you had a less than one-in-five chance of finding a fund that beat the market.
So why do so many people think they can pick a winner?
The answer may be found in a new paper from James White, Jeff Rosenbluth and Victor Haghani of Elm Partners that shows people find it very difficult to tell skill from luck.
Suppose you have two coins, one fair and the other biased 60% in favour of heads.
How many parallel tosses would you need to be 95% certain (statistically speaking) of identifying the rigged coin?
They asked 700 financial professionals the question and their median guess was 40.
The actual answer is 143.
If you widen the experiment to three coins, the number rises to 220.
The authors then use a thought experiment, which assumes that 15% of fund managers can generate a post-fee return of 1% a year relative to the market while the other 85% lose 1%.
They put 1% of the portfolio a year into each fund and then shift more to the winners each year, based on the probability that they can continue to outperform.
Even after 10 years, the expected return on this portfolio is -0.6% a year, relative to the index.
There is even more bad news.
At least, a coin doesnt know whether the last result was a head or a tail.
Investment success is affected by past data; other people copy a winning strategy and stocks can move from cheap to expensive as they outperform.
The authors add:

Sadly, the power of past returns to predict the future is even weaker in investing than it is with coin flips.
In the real world, any kind of return-chasing strategy will face additional headwinds, amongst them the fact that when an investment strategy was truly extraordinary in the past, its very discovery will diminish future performance (or even make future returns negative), as more capital is drawn towards it.
This may be the prime reason why investor returns (i.e.
dollar-weighted returns) tend to be significantly below fund returns (i.e.
time-weighted returns).
This doesnt happen with coin flips.
To sum up, you may think you can pick a successful active manager.
But the laws of probability suggest you cant.
FOR many aeroplane enthusiasts, buying a Boeing 747 is the stuff of dreams.
The Queen of the Skies is an icon from the golden age of air travel, a period the 1960s and 1970s when the industry was at its most glamorous.
And owning one would be like having a little piece of aviation history.
Last week that dream shifted slightly closer to reality, albeit only for well-heeled fans.
Three Boeing 747s went up for auction on Taobao, Chinas equivalent of eBay.
The seller is a state court in Shenzhen, which seized the planes when Jade Cargo International, an airline, went bust in 2012.
At first, state officials tried to flog the planes offline at private auctions.
But after six failed attempts, they opened the sale up to public bids.
Offers currently range from 122m yuan ($18.5m) to 135m yuan.
This is not the first time one of the planes has been auctioned online.
Last year Concord Aerospace, a Florida-based firm which buys and sells plane parts, offered a decommissioned 747 on eBay.
Because the engines had been removed, the suggested starting bid was a mere $300,000.
Even so, the plane did not sell.
That is largely because the cost of shipping would have been many times higher than the auction price, explains Mert Balta, Concord Aerospaces founder.
The fact that 747s are ending up on online auction sites is a sign of their waning appeal.
Their share of worldwide available seat milesa measure of total seat capacity and mileageis tumbling.
Both United Airlines and Delta are planning to fly their last scheduled 747 flights by the end of this year.
One reason for this is the 747s inefficiency.
They are heavier than most of the smaller, twin-engine models and so burn more fuel.
On a trip between New York and Los Angeles, for instance, a 747 will consume 30% more fuel per passenger than the smaller, twin-engine Airbus A320.
When oil prices soared in the late-1990s and early-2000s, the 747 became even more expensive to fly.
Another reason is changing patterns in flight schedules, as Gulliver has previously noted .
When the popularity of flying started to boom in the 1980s, airlines began to offer a greater range of take-off times to travellers.
More flights on smaller planes became the norm, rather than a handful on the big 747s.
Though fans may bemoan the loss of an iconic aircraft, some 747s have been given a new lease of life in their retirement.
One was transformed into a noodle restaurant in South Korea (though that too later went bust).
Another has been converted into Jumbo Stay, a hostel near Stockholm airport in Sweden.
Mr Balta even has plans to turn the fuselage of his 747 into caravans and houses.
The Queen of the Skies may be grounded, but she has not been consigned to the scrapheap just yet.
Correction (September 26th, 2017): A previous version of this post referred to China's auction website as Taboo instead of Taobao.
This has now been corrected and autocorrect has been disabled on our computers.
Apologies.
IT WAS 2012I was number 37, says Ashwini, referring to the badge that was pinned on her shirt pocket.
Her task was to go onto the stage and introduce herself to around 70 eligible bachelors and their parents.
Families then conferred and, provided caste and religious background proved no obstacle, would approach the events moderator asking to meet number 37.
At midday girls would wait for prospects to swing by, again with parents on either side.
A brief exchange might establish the potential brides cooking skills or her intention to work after marriage.
If the two sides hit it off, they would exchange copies of their horoscopes.
Nearly 50 men lined up to meet Ashwini that day, speed-dating style.
No one made the cut.
She later married a colleague.
Such gatherings form an important part of the wedding industry, worth around $50bn a year, in a country where arranged marriages continue to be the norm.
India has 440m millennialsroughly, the generation born between 1980 and 1996and a further 390m youngsters have been born since 2000, so there are plenty of anguished parents for marriage facilitators to pitch to.
KPMG, a consultancy, estimates that out of 107m single men and women, 63m are active seekers.
For now, only a tenth surf the internet to find a spouse.
But the number who do is about to explode, argue executives in the marriage-portal business (India has 2,600 such sites).
After Facebook [took off], people are more open about their lives than ever before, which has had a great knock-on effect, says Gourav Rakshit of Shaadi.com, one of Indias oldest matrimonial sites.
Take Matrimony.com, the countrys biggest online matchmaker, which raised $78m in its initial public offering on September 13th.
Its shares began trading this week.
It runs 300-odd websites in 15 languages, catering to different castes and religions.
It has sites for divorcees, the disabled, the affluent (Elite Matrimony) and for those with unfavourable astrological charts, which make it difficult to find a match.
All online firms run a freemium model: upload your profile at no charge and let an algorithm match horoscope details with potential partners filtered by age, caste, education, income and sometimes (alas) complexion.
Or you can pay for features like instant chat or a colourful border around your profile to ensure the algorithm returns you as a top search result.
Such a long list of options means that finding a match on the web can be time-consuming and tedious.
Its like looking for a needle in a haystack, says one suitor.
Predictably, many also complain that online profiles often do not reflect reality.
Outright fakes remain a scourge.
This month a man was arrested in Delhi for extorting over 5m rupees ($77,700) from 15 women by luring them on matrimonial websites.
And no amount of artificial intelligence can yet identify what will make two youngsters click.
Spouseup, a south Indian startup, is undaunted.
It trawls social media to determine a candidates personality and recommends matches by calculating a compatibility score.
Nine-tenths of its 50,000 users are non-resident Indians who usually fly to India for a month or so, scout for partners, settle on one, get hitched and fly back together.
For these time-starved travellers, the machine-led scouring provides an insight that would come from five coffee dates, says Karthik Iyer, the firms founder.
Banihal, which is based in Silicon Valley, relies on a long psychometric questionnaire of around 100 questions to match like-minded partners.
Real-world complements to online efforts can help secure a match.
Some services, such as IITIIMShaadi.com, aimed at people graduating from prestigious universities, also act as conventional wedding-brokers, by meeting prospects on their clients behalf.
The job is no different from that of a headhunter, says Taksh Gupta, its founder.
He charges anywhere between 50,000 and 200,000 rupees for the service.
His most recent catch, after a search lasting over two years, was a husband for a 45-year-old woman from a prestigious university who would settle for no less than an Ivy League groom.
Matrimony.com, too, has over 400 relationship managers and 140 physical outlets.
The opportunity is huge, enthuses Murugavel Janakiraman, boss of Matrimony.com.
Around four-fifths of new customers now come via smartphones, lured by instant alerts about new potential matches and services that match up people in the same town.
But the spread of smartphones also brings competition.
Casual-dating apps are spreading fast.
Tinder, on which decisions about eligibility rarely benefit from parental advice, now counts India as Asias largest, fastest-growing market.
EIGHT months into Donald Trumps presidency, the rules-based system of global trade remains intact.
Threats to impose broad tariffs have come to nothing.
Some ominous investigations into whether imports into America are a national-security threat are on hold.
Mr Trump looks less a hard man than a boy crying wolf.
All the same, supporters of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the guardian of that rules-based system, are worried.
Other dangers are lurking.
There is more than one way to undermine an institution.
The WTO is meant to be a forum for reaching deals and resolving disputes.
But all 164 members must agree to new rules, and agreement has largely been elusive.
So if members do not like todays rules, as interpreted by judges, they have little prospect of negotiating better ones.
That puts pressure on the WTOs judicial function, the bit that has been working fairly well.
Trouble is brewing at the WTOs court of appeals.
It is meant to have seven serving judges, but has only five and by the end of the year will have just four.
The Americans refuse to start the process of filling the spots, citing systemic concerns.
What seemed an arcane procedural row has become what some call a crisis.
This tension comes at a bad time.
Over recent years the number of disputes has risen both in number (see chart) and complexity.
The court is already dealing with a backlog of cases, which are supposed to take two months.
One appeal from the EU, relating to Airbus, an aircraft manufacturer, is almost a year old.
By the end of 2019 the terms of three more judges will expire, leaving only one.
Three are needed to rule on any individual case.
If the gaps are not filled, the system risks collapse.
Notionally, the Americans object to two procedural irregularities, including the way the most recently departed judges left.
But according to Brendan McGivern, a lawyer in Geneva, neither is a show-stopping problem.
And on September 18th Robert Lighthizer, Americas usually tight-lipped trade representative, outlined a bigger agenda.
To a Washington room packed with foreign-policy wonks, he complained that decisions from WTO judges had diminished what America had bargained for and imposed obligations it had not agreed to when it joined the WTO.
These are long-standing and uniquely American concerns.
Panels at the WTO have repeatedly ruled that the way it calculates defensive duties on imports breaks the rules.
Mr Lighthizer sees this as undermining Americas ability to protect itself from unfair trade.
Many in Washington accuse the WTOs lawyers of overstepping their remit, filling in the gaps where the original rules are silent.
So the American administration seems in effect to be using the judicial appointments to hold the WTO hostage.
Oddly, though, it has been vague about what it wants.
Mr Lighthizers past offers clues.
According to the Wall Street Journal , when he advised Bob Dole, a presidential candidate in 1996, he recommended that a panel of American judges should review any findings against America, which would threaten to quit the WTO after three duds.
This week Mr Lighthizer spoke fondly of the system that preceded the WTO, under which members could block panel rulings.
Bullying the appellate body into ruling in favour of America would undermine its usefulness.
If members no longer think that they will get a fair hearing, they are more likely to take matters into their own hands.
Mr McGivern worries that an American fix to the perceived problem of judicial overreach could undermine the rules-based system, by tampering with the independence of the appellate body.
Some signs suggest that Mr Trumps administration is not planning to ditch the WTO entirely.
It is pursuing two disputes initiated by Barack Obama.
And Mr Lighthizer has said that if he uncovers a breach of Chinas commitments under WTO rules, he will file a dispute.
But he expressed doubt about the WTOs ability either to deal with Chinese mercantilism or to reach any agreements at its next ministerial meeting in December.
Mr Trumps tough-cop trade policy appears to be to threaten tariffs unless he gets his way.
Mr Lighthizers is subtler but perhaps more menacing.
By combining indifference with a ploy to starve the WTO of judges, he is gambling that the WTO needs America more than America needs it.
In both cases the risks are the same: that the rule book will become irrelevant.
Correction (September 22nd): A previous version of this article misstated the number of judges in the WTOs court of appeals due to retire in 2019.
This has been corrected online.
A year earlier than expected, Norways sovereign-wealth fund, the worlds largest, surpassed $1trn in assets on September 19th.
It had gained over $100bn in the past year, thanks in large measure to the global stockmarket boom in 2017: around two-thirds of its assets are held as equities (over 1% of shares globally).
It helps that Norwegians continue to earn fat revenues from pumping North Sea oil and gas, which go to the fund to be invested abroad.
The fund is so big it is becoming a tool for 5m-odd Norwegians to shape values abroad.
It is an increasingly activist shareholder, speaking out on executive pay, ethical behaviour, companies use of water, child labour and more.
Both its size and influence are likely to keep on growing.
THREE-QUARTERS of Americans admit that they search the web, send e-mails and check their social-media accounts in the bathroom.
That is not the only connection between tech and plumbing.
The water and sewage industry offers clues to the vexed question of how to regulate the Silicon Valley platform firms, such as Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook.
The implications are mildly terrifying for the companies, so any tech tycoons reading this column might want to secure a spare pair of trousers.
In America and in Europe a consensus is emerging that big tech firms must be tamed.
Their dominance of services such as search and social media gives them huge economic and political clout.
The $3trn total market value of Americas five biggest tech firms (Apple and Microsoft are the other two) suggests that investors believe they are among the most powerful firms in history, up there with the East India Company and Standard Oil.
Trustbusters in need of instant gratification want to break up the companies, but this might make their services less useful (imagine having ten social-media accounts), and network effects might mean that one of the tiddlers would grow dominant again.
Others want tech firms to license their patents for nothing, as AT&T was required to do in 1956.
This might create startups tomorrow, but will not stop firms exploiting monopolies today.
An alternative is to regulate these companies like utilitiesmonopolies with high market shares that provide an essential service from which it is expensive for consumers to switch.
Here, the water industry is relevant, particularly the concept of a regulated asset base (RAB).
It emerged in the 1990s when Britain was privatising its water firms, borrowing elements from American regulation.
It is an acronym that few in Silicon Valley are aware of.
But from these obscure origins RAB frameworks are now common in Europe and Latin America, used to regulate at least $400bn-worth of power, airport, water and telecoms assets.
The idea is that the monopolists profits should not exceed the level that a competitive market would allow.
That means estimating the cost to an imaginary new entrant of replicating the incumbents assets (this is the RAB) and calculating the profits the newcomer would make if its returns matched its cost of capital.
The actual monopolys earnings should not exceed this amount.
Safeguards are added to ensure the utility is run efficiently, keeping costs low.
Regulators review the framework every few years.
How might utility-style regulation work for Silicon Valley firms?
Consider a thought experiment with Facebook.
Its 1.3bn users pay nothing, but give it their data and control over the adverts they see.
Facebook then sells advertisers targeted access to its users, pulling in $27bn last year.
Imagine that the service were unbundled, giving users control.
All would own their data and could choose whether to sell them to advertisers.
They would also have to pay Facebook a fee to compensate it for the cost of creating and operating the network.
The big question is how much compensationprofitsFacebook and other firms would deserve if they were treated as utilities.
It is possible to get a rough idea.
Assume a cost of capital of 12%a high figure to reflect the risk inherent in tech firms models.
Estimating their RABs is harder.
They have some physical assets such as data centres, but unlike utilities their main resources are not pylons, pipes and property, but software and ideas that they create or acquire by buying rivals.
Only some of these intangibles appear on their balance-sheets; the vast sums spent on research and development (R&D) do not.
But you can reconfigure their balance-sheets as if all their R&D in the past had been recognised as an asset with a 20-year life.
Alphabet and Facebook would have a combined RAB of $160bn.
If their returns were capped at 12%, operating profits would fall by 65% and 81% respectively.
If their services were unbundled, users would benefit.
Using figures from 2016, the average Facebook user would pay $15 a year to the firm for its return on its RAB, but they would pocket $23 from selling advertisers their data and the right to be advertised to.
A Google user would pay $37 a year to Google, but collect $45 from advertisers.
Those are fairly small sums, but richer users with particularly valuable data could make much more.
Bog standard

Regulating tech like water would cause an outcry among investors and in Silicon Valley.
Yet some of the objections do not stack up.
Essential investment would still happena guaranteed 12% return is a handsome reward.
The firms could invest in new technologies that would remain outside the regulated utility.
It would be possible to work out which assets sit abroad and exclude them from the RAB, or to reach arrangements with foreign regulators.
This approach would have shortcomings, though.
Tech moves at the speed of light compared with conventional utilities.
It was only five years ago that investors worried that Facebook would struggle with the shift to mobile phones.
Regulators would be clumsy at coping with rapid change.
And a RAB methodology would not resolve the incendiary issue of whether tech platforms should be responsible for what they publish.
Despite such problems, tech bosses should view regulation as utilities as a long-term risk.
They have two defences.
First, to bundle their services so tightly that it is impossible for outsiders to isolate the products that are monopolies and work out their profits and assets.
Amazon is a master here.
It is unclear how much it makes or has invested in e-commerce (where it is dominant), videos (where it is a challenger), or food (where it is a new entrant).
The second defence is to lobby Washington.
The lesson from Americas veteran oligopolistsairline, telecoms and health-care companiesis that you can manipulate and dance around the regulatory system to ensure high profits.
For tech firms, financial obfuscation and cronyism are the most effective ways to ensure their monopoly profits do not go down the drain.
IN RECENT days China set the record for the worlds fastest long-distance bullet train, which hurtled between Beijing and Shanghai at 350kph (217mph).
This was a triumph of industrial policy as much as of engineering.
Chinas first high-speed trains started rolling only a decade ago; today the country has 20,000km of high-speed track, more than the rest of the world combined.
China could not have built this without a strong government.
The state provided funds for research, land for tracks, aid for loss-making railways, subsidies for equipment-makers and, most controversially, incentives for foreign companies to share commercial secrets.
High-speed rail is a prime example of the Chinese governments prowess at identifying priority industries and deploying money and policy tools to nurture them.
It inspires awe of what it can accomplish and fear that other countries stand little chance against such a formidable competitor.
Yet there have also been big industrial-policy misses, notably the failure to develop strong car manufacturers and semiconductor-makers.
China is rolling out a new generation of industrial policies, directed at a range of advanced sectors, raising worries that it will dominate everything from robotics to artificial intelligence.
That result is far from preordained.
Industrial policy is a touchy topic.
In continental Europe and, especially, Asia, many have faith in the governments ability to steer companies into industries they might otherwise shun.
In America and Britain, faith tends to be supplanted by deep doubts.
Governments, after all, have a lousy record in picking winners in fast-evolving markets.
Yet most countries try to support some industries, usually through a mixture of infrastructure, tax breaks and research funding.
What differs is the stress they lay on such measures.
China is unique in the breadth and heft of its industrial policy.
For years the government concentrated on modernising what it classified as nine traditional industries such as shipbuilding, steelmaking and petrochemical production.
In 2010 seven new strategic industries, from alternative energy to biotechnology, also became targets.
And two years ago it announced its Made in China 2025 scheme, specifying ten sectors, including aerospace, new materials and agricultural equipment, which are now at the heart of its planning.
The various plans overlap; cars, for example, have appeared in every iteration.
The result is a wide-ranging approach in which the government tries to shape outcomes in important parts of the economy, new and old.
The Made in China plan, its latest industrial-policy craze, is derived in part from Germanys Industry 4.0 model, which focuses on creating a helpful environment through training and policy support but leaves business decisions to companies.
Chinas version is much more hands-on.
By the start of this year, officials had established 1,013 state-guided funds, endowed with 5.3trn yuan ($807bn), much of it for Made in China industries.
In August the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology unveiled a manufacturing-subsidy programme, spread across as many as 62 separate initiatives.
Most contentiously, the government has laid out local-content targets for the various Made in China sectors (see chart).
One plan features hundreds of market-share targets, both at home and abroad.
Clearly, this is no mere domestic exercise, the EU Chamber of Commerce in China warned in a report this year.
The targets also illustrate one of the facets of Chinese industrial policy that has so angered foreign companies and governments: the disguising of state support.
The World Trade Organisation (WTO) strictly limits local-content rules.
But Chinas market-share targets are primarily contained in semi-official documents, such as a blueprint published by the Chinese Academy of Engineering.
So the government can claim that these are simply industry reports, not official targets.
But in the Chinese system the line between government-backed industry estimates and official guidelines is easily blurred.
Similarly, foreigners have long complained that China hides much of its illegal state aid.
Since 2011 America has formally requested information about more than 400 unreported Chinese subsidies.
China learned how to game the system, says Tim Stratford, a former American trade official responsible for dealings with China.
The WTO is not designed to deal effectively with a huge economy that has, as the core of its development strategy, industrial policies across a wide range of sectors.
Frustrations at the WTOs inadequacy in restraining China have led the American government to look at other mechanisms (see article ).
Foreign competitors see China as a well-oiled machine and worry that they will lose business not just in China but around the world.
Export powerhouses such as South Korea and Germany feel most exposed (see chart).
But in fact the Chinese governments record in promoting specific industries is patchy.
Since the 1970s it has tried to develop semiconductors.
But of the $145bn-worth of microchips China consumed in 2015, only a tenth were truly domestic; foreign technology remains superior.
The car industry, too, has disappointed.
To manufacture in China, foreign firms must take local partners.
The government hoped this would lead to knowledge transfers.
Instead, local firms, insulated from head-on foreign competition, have milked the joint ventures for profits and innovated little.
Moreover, in their zeal, local governments can go overboard.
Some worry that Made in China sectors will end up facing gluts, like old industries where China is now cutting overcapacity, such as steel and coal.
The Mercator Institute of China Studies, a Berlin-based research group, counted that, by late 2016, nearly 40 local governments had opened or planned robotics parks.
The central government estimates that China will need nearly 150bn yuan-worth of robots over the next few years.
According to the Mercator tally, local targets add up to roughly five times as much.
Yet when four factorsforeign technology, domestic abilities, market demand and government moneycome together, Chinese industrial policy can be ruthlessly effective.
The boom in high-speed rail began in 2004 when the government offered lucrative contracts to foreign engineering companies such as Germanys Siemens and Japans Kawasaki so long as they shared their know-how.
Some resisted at first, but eventually the lure of Chinas vast market won them over, especially when they saw competitors getting a slice of it.
With their prodigious engineering skills, born from years of trying to develop high-speed rail themselves, Chinese companies soon absorbed the technology.
After a decade of laying tracks on an unprecedented scale, they have improved on it.
That success cannot be replicated in all ten of the Made in China sectors, not least because foreign companies are more guarded about sharing their secrets.
But it would be rash to bet against Chinas succeeding in at least a few of them.
ASK young American parents about Toys R Us and they are likely to be able to sing a jingle from their childhood: I dont wanna grow up, cause maybe if I did, I couldnt be a Toys R Us kid.
For children of the 1980s, Toys R Us was a mecca at the strip mall, an awe-inspiring array of dolls, trucks, board games, bikes, art supplies and much more.
Many of them noticed when on September 18th, the chain filed for bankruptcy.
Dave Brandon, the companys chief executive, emphasised that shops would carry on operating as usual and claimed that Toys R Us was at the start of a new, brighter era.
These are the right steps to ensure that the iconic Toys R Us and Babies R Us brands live on for many generations, he declared.
A Chapter 11 bankruptcy, many analysts agree, is a sensible way to deal with the chains $5bn of long-term debt.
So Toys R Us is not dead.
But its future is hardly certain.
The companys tale in many ways typifies the ailments of American bricks-and-mortar retailing.
Its woes began in the 1990s, as big-box stores grew both in number and in size.
Walmarts vast selection meant parents could buy a toy in the same place where they picked up milk.
Then came e-commerce.
Toys are particularly suitable for online shopping.
Unlike a dress, they do not need to be tried on for size, and unlike a peach they do not need to be felt for ripeness.
Those of prime toy-buying age, parents with young children, are busy.
Women aged 25-44 spend almost as much time shopping as they do eating and drinking.
Given the choice of buying a train set online or in a store, particularly when a toy shop can transform even the calmest child into an insatiable lunatic, many parents opt to buy online.
Amazon makes that extraordinarily convenient.
The result is that many former Toys R Us kids have no interest in being Toys R Us parents.
Cowen, a financial-services firm, expects 41% of toys and games in America to be purchased online this year, about twice the proportion sourced from the internet in 2009.
Toys R Us also suffers from other common ills.
The first is a heavy burden of debt.
Three private-equity firms bought Toys R Us in 2005 in a leveraged buyout, adding substantially to its borrowings; it pays around $400m a year in interest costs, even as it tries to compete with Amazon.
It also has $400m in secured and unsecured debt maturing next year.
Many expected a bankruptcy, but the filing, just ahead of the vital holiday selling season, underlines how squeezed the firm has become.
Two other retailersPayless ShoeSource, a 61-year-old discount shoe-seller from Kansas, and Gymboree, which began selling childrens clothing in 1986are among those that declared bankruptcy this year after being backed by private-equity firms that left them similarly weighed down.
Second, Toys R Us has not helped itself.
Like many department-store chains, its inventory has been painfully slow to adapt to changing trends.
Sales of fidget spinners, a toy that has become ubiquitous in the past year, for instance, got twirling online first.
Nor is it clear whether its strategy of trying to lure families to its shops with live events, such as music classes for children, will work.
Like so many other retailers, Toys R Us is striving to build its business online.
That has been bumpy work.
In 2000, back when Amazon was still trying to move beyond selling books, Toys R Us joined with the e-commerce giant to manage online toy sales.
Four years later it sued Amazon, arguing that the e-tailer had broken the terms of their agreement.
In 2006 a judge agreed, but 11 years on that victory gives scant solace.
IN THEORY, overnight air travel should be wonderfully convenient.
Instead of booking a hotel for the night and losing a day, travellers simply sleep while they fly.
In reality, sleeping on a plane is hard, and at an airport tougher still.
The chairs in terminals, nobodys idea of comfort to begin with, tend to have armrests that make splaying out unfeasible.
Even in business-class lounges, travellers contort themselves into impossible shapes to pretend that workspace desks are actually beds.
But soon there may be less need for such acrobatics.
Sleep pods are coming to more and more airports.
Last month, Washington Dulles International put out a call for proposals for a company to provide a quiet and comfortable place within the airport to sleep, relax, or work while waiting to board a flight.
Mexico Citys airport has just added sleep pods with a space-age design for $30 a night.
YotelAir, which offers pods in Amsterdam, London and Paris, is a touch more expensive at $42 for four hours.
Dearer still is Minute Suites, which has operations in three American airports with a fourth coming later this year.
Its prices start at $32 an hour.
NapCity, which is yet to sign its first lease, will charge $45 for the first hour and a slightly lower rate after that.
The concept is not new.
Japan opened its first capsule hotels in the late 1970s.
But today sleep pods seem to be on the verge of conquering Western airports.
And they have taken on a distinctly Western style, leaving behind the Asian modeloften little more than a mattress and the minimum requisite space for a human body.
Some have televisions and charging stations and sell items such as toothbrushes.
That is great news for flyers.
But the bigger question for the future of sleep pods is whether they make sense for airports.
One concern may be revenue.
Airports generally take a cut of the money that retailers in the terminal make.
That is by no means pocket change.
The founder of one capsule hotel company told Bloomberg that a single seat in a restaurant can generate $20,000 a year.
It is unclear whether sleeping pods, even the most-compact of which take up the space of a couple of restaurant seats, will generate returns that big.
And so airports may think twice before giving up room to them.
Airports also may be wary of creating new competition for nearby hotels.
They enjoy a good relationship with these hotels, which offer lodging for airline crews and stranded passengers, and send shuttles to and from the airports.
Hoteliers would surely balk if airports cosied up to their cheaper and more-convenient rivals.
But travellers are willing to do a lot for a good nights sleep.
Take, for example, the new bus service that runs from Los Angeles to San Francisco, which Gulliver recently reported on .
It goes out of its way to take longer so that passengers can get eight hours of rest.
Whether airports will be equally willing to let its customers get some shut-eye remains to be seen.
FINANCIERS with PhDs like to remind each other to read your Kindleberger".
The rare academic who could speak fluently to bureaucrats and normal people, Charles Kindleberger designed the Marshall Plan and wrote vast economic histories worthy of Tolstoy.
Read your Kindleberger is just a coded way of saying dont forget this has all happened before.
So to anyone invested in, mining or building applications for distributed ledger money such as bitcoin or ethereum: read your Kindleberger.
Start with A Financial History of Western Europe , in which Kindleberger documents how many times merchants in different centuries figured out clever ways of doing the exact same thing.
They made transactions easier, and in the process created new deposits and bills that increased the supply of money.
In most cases, the Brgermeister or the king left these innovations in place, but decided to control the supply of money and credit themselves.
It is good for the king to be in charge of his own creditors.
But also, it has always been tempting for private finance to create too much money.
There is no evidence that money born on a distributed ledger will be clean of this sin.
Distributed ledgers, which borrow private computers from around the world to update the same list of accounts, address one ancient challenge of finance: how to make sure a transaction between two people located far apart is credible to both.
Other innovations have done the same.
In 1773 banks in England went in on a clearinghouse in London, for example, an improvement on the system of managing separate ledgers with each bank.
The banks themselves took in gold coincumbersome to carry and verifythen created new money by offering more in loans than the gold they had on deposit.
In 1776 Adam Smith described coins as an earth-bound highway, where bank money offered a waggon-way through the air.
(Quote from Kindleberger.
Read your Kindleberger.)
Your blogger challenges any bitcoin operator to praise his own disruptions more loftily.
Over the next century the currency school, which wanted to lock down growth in money, argued with the banking school, which wanted ever more waggons in the air.
We cant look back now and say either side definitively won, because this argument cannot ever possibly be won.
Creditors and business owners want the supply of money to grow slowly.
Debtors and employees want it to grow faster.
We might sooner tease out the true nature of the Holy Spirit.
Bankers talk about governance, ways to ensure private banks and central bankers make sound decisionsso they create just enough money make commerce easier, but not so much that the system collapses through inflation or panics.
The developers behind distributed ledgers, however, often talk as if governance is something they are beyond.
They are not.
Computer code is just a set of rules.
Code is governance.
And it can change.
Take bitcoin: if a supermajority of the computers running the bitcoin distributed ledger run an upgrade, the upgrade becomes the new code.
But behind each computer is a human, making decisions.
Distributed-ledger developers talk about a consensus-driven model, where you improve the system by bringing everyone on board.
So do central bankers.
And different humans have different interests.
In bitcoin, the people who own the computers verifying transactionsthe minerswant code that increases fees for miners.
People who use bitcoin want code that keeps those fees low.
These two sides could not agree, and so in August the bitcoin distributed ledger forkeda smaller group of developers created a copy with slightly different rules, called bitcoin cash.
Everyone who owned one unit of bitcoin also suddenly owned one unit of bitcoin cash.
Out of a governance dispute, new money.
In mid-September bitcoin traded at about $3900, while bitcoin cash fetched only $500.
Cointelegraph, a site for people who trade distributed-ledger currencies, also offers quotes and analysis on currencies called ethereum, ripple and litecoin.
You could argue that markets are already deciding which new currencies provide sound money.
And in doing so you would join the banking school of 19th-century England, or the people who loosened financial regulation in the late 1990s in America.
Your blogger does not believe this argument is wrong, necessarily.
But it is not new, and it has failed spectacularly in the past.
Distributed ledgers are useful technology, just like banks.
As they become a larger part of finance, the temptation to abuse them will be just as great.
History instructs that no governance is perfect, and humans are reliably awful.
This week Quartz , an online magazine, published an interview with Vitalik Buterin, the 23-year-old founder of ethereum.
The currency survived a crisis of credibility after a bug was discovered in 2016, leaving him up all night communicating with ethereums users and gathering consensus for actionmuch like the worlds central bankers a decade ago.
He seems thoughtful on the trade-offs of governance, but unaware that anyone has considered them before:

In the case of ethereum, if somehow 80% of ethereums users just ended up being cryptocurrency speculators, would we then have a social responsibility to start optimizing for that constituency, because that would end up being our constituency?
Thats an interesting philosophical question.
It is.
Read your Kindleberger.
MI GENTE lures listeners with a mesmerising hook, a thumping beat and lyrics about breaking down barriers.
A collaboration between J Balvin, a Colombian reggaeton star (pictured), and Willy William, a French producer, the latest product of this summers Latin craze is crooned almost entirely in Spanish.
(The title means My People; reggaeton borrows from hip hop, reggae and rap.)
The song topped the charts on Spotify, a streaming service, for weeks.
To be a crossover artist, you used to have to sing in English, said John Reilly, Mr Balvins publicist.
Now six of YouTubes top ten music videos are predominantly in Spanish.
In August the Billboard Hot 100, which tracks streams, sales and radio plays, sported seven Latin hits.
Just five graced the chart in all of 2016.
Latin music is helping the music industry to arrest years of decline.
Its growth is far outpacing that of other genres.
Last year Latin America yielded just $598m out of total global recorded-music revenue of $16bn, but sales increased by 12%, against 5.9% worldwide.
Streaming revenue in the region (including subscription services such as Spotify and Apple Music, as well as YouTube and other websites) leapt by 57%.
The Latin audience is a lean-back audience, explains Rocio Guerrero, Spotifys head of global cultures.
For radio-loving Latin Americans, who were less likely to own CD players and iPods than music fans elsewhere, streaming was a natural fit.
Now Latin fans are listening to hour upon hour of music.
Mexico and Brazil are among Spotifys top four markets by volume of streams.
Jess Lpez, chief executive of Universal Music Latin America, has said the streaming platform has democratised music consumption.
Fans have access to any music, anywhere.
Spotifys curators are also makers of fortune, promoting Latin hits and rising stars by featuring them in playlists like Baila Reggaeton (Dance Reggaeton), the apps third most popular.
A spot in Baila Reggaeton guarantees tens of millions of streams from the lists nearly 6m followers, which can propel a song into Spotifys global charts.
Danny Ocean, a Venezuelan unknown with a honey-smooth voice, released Me Rehso by himself on YouTubeand saw it soar when Spotify added it to Baila Reggaeton.
As streaming services have tracked and monetised, labels have noted Latin musics climb up the charts.
The Spanish version of Despacito, by Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee, a Puerto Rican duo, was already ubiquitous in Latin America when Justin Bieber heard it in a club in Bogot.
Mr Bieber asked if he could jump on the track.
The hybrid version released in April became the most-streamed song yet, with nearly 5bn audio and video plays.
Record labels are eager to tap a fan base that includes Latin Americans, Latinos in America (one of the countrys fastest-growing ethnic groups) and millions of teenagers worldwide drawn to reggaeton by Despacito and Mi Gente.
Latin music captures 8% of streams in America, which translates into advertising revenues and performance sales for music labels.
It still accounts for just 2% of songs and albums sold.
Would labels rather have a million streams or a million albums sold?
Its a no-brainer, says David Bakula of Nielsen Entertainment, a research firm.
Universal Music Group, the worlds biggest music company, which co-manages Mr Balvin and Mr Fonsi, first invested in digital teams in Latin America a decade ago.
That seems to be paying off.
Scorpio Music, the French indie label behind Mi Gente, last celebrated a Billboard hit in 1984.
It hopes Latin music will be a ticket back to renown.
We have to prove were relevant and that Mi Gente wasnt a lucky strike, said Chiara Belolo, its head of international development.
Mr Balvin has the same task.
He is working on a remix of his hit track with a huge mainstream artist.
He owes much of his success to streaming, he says, but Im the type of artist who doesnt like to talk about money.
Even so, he is now the kind who makes it.
IF SAUDI ARAMCO is a state within a state in Saudi Arabia, then the blandly named Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling (OSPAS) is its deep state.
To enter it, you pass tight security at Aramcos suburban-style headquarters in Dhahran, in the east of the kingdom.
The transition is eye-opening.
Suddenly, English is the common tongue even among Saudi Aramcons, as its workers are known.
Female employees, their faces uncovered, lead meetings of male colleagues.
The crisp banter is common to engineers everywhere.
A toilet break is called a pressure-relief exercise.
Deep within, OSPAS is even further removed from the kingdom outside.
The few executives with clearance to enter call it the nerve centre of the worlds largest oil company.
Using 100,000 sensors and data points on wells, pipelines, plants and terminals, it directs every drop of oil and cubic foot of gas that comes out of the kingdom (10% of the worlds oil supply), monitors it on giant screens as it heads to ports and power stations, and tracks oil tankers as they load.
Well managers in the desert outback wait daily for OSPAS to tell them what to do.
Its not just pretty graphics, an executive says, purring appreciatively over the 70-metre web of data flashing on the wall.
Because Aramco has all its upstream oil-and-gas operations in one country, it says it can justify investing big sumsand a lot of computer capacityon such technology, because it helps cut costs.
ExxonMobil operates in 40-plus countries.
It just cant do that, the executive adds, before apologising lest he appear to bad-mouth a client and partner, one of Aramcos American founding former shareholders.
Such comparisons will become more pertinent as Aramco opens itself up for an initial public offering (IPO).
Until recently it was just as cloistered from outside scrutiny as the kingdom itself, giving it more of a mystique than a good reputation.
This week it invited The Economist for a visit.
It only partially lifted its veil; its finances remain off-limits to everyone except the government, its only shareholder.
Affable executives dodge almost every attempt to wheedle out useful ways of comparing the firm with its listed peers (it has no peers, they dissemble).
But despite the hermeticism, Aramco has a good tale to tell.
Even as its rivals have retrenched owing to low prices, it has stuck to long-term plans, investing heavily in technology, training and the future of oil.
Its long-term approach may help explain one mystery.
For decades, Saudi Arabias declared oil reserves have confounded the industry; since 1989 they have remained suspiciously constant at around 260bn barrelsa dozen times those of Aramcos nearest listed rival (see chart).
As if to rub it in, Aramco says the kingdom has a whopping 400bn further barrels of resources that could one day become reserves.
These reserves are under audit ahead of the IPO, and executives are loth to discuss the process.
However, they argue that whereas other companies have to go far to find new reserves, Aramco can keep them constant simply by better stewardship of its existing fields.
Amin Nasser, the chief executive, says the companys recovery ratesthe share of oil recouped from what is available in a fieldaverage about 50%, but rise as high as 70%, compared with a global average of about 33%.
It does this by maintaining the pressure of its wells over the long term through gas re-injection and other means.
Raising recovery rates on average to 70% would add 80bn barrels to reserves, an executive says.
That is four times ExxonMobils latest total.
Unlike big listed companies, which scrapped growth plans when the price of oil slumped in 2014-16, Aramco has also been able to keep on investing because of its low costs, Mr Nasser says.
Increasing natural-gas output is now the main focus, but it has also raised oil production in some areas.
This is visible at the vast Shaybah field in Saudi Arabias blisteringly hot Empty Quarter, where Aramco last year upped oil output by 250,000 barrels a day (b/d) to 1m b/d, inaugurated a facility to process natural-gas liquids (pictured on previous page) and laid 650km of new pipelines across a mountain range of red sand dunes.
(Aramco also set out to repopulate the surrounding desert with oryx, gazelle and ostrich hunted almost to extinction.
They are now reproducing, although the first ostrich eggs to fertilise sadly cooked in the heat.)
Its second focus is technology.
Whereas some of its peers admit that they squandered the chance to invest in big data during the oil boom before 2014, Aramco has no such regrets.
Last year it inaugurated its home-grown TeraPowers technology, which uses 1trn pixel-like computational cells to simulate the flow of hydrocarbons through 500m years of geological time, enabling it to model oilfields in granular detail.
From Dhahran it can remotely direct drilling of horizontal wells in Shaybah, steering a drill-bit through miles of rock to within a few feet of its target.
(Royal Dutch Shell recently boasted of using similar remote-drilling technology in Argentina.)
To train young employees in understanding the subsurface, Aramco has a 3D virtual-reality cave in Dhahran, which shows the filigree of wells 1,500 metres below the surface of Shaybah, as if from a submarine.
Third, as Saudi Arabias most attractive employer, Aramco has less difficulty than its Western peers in attracting millennial recruits (born between around 1980 and 1996) who are turning away from the oil and gas industry.
It has kept up spending on international scholarships during the slump.
It plans to raise the share of women in the workforce from 25% to 40%.
Its chief engineer and head of human resources are both female.
Saudi labour laws still apply, however: female Aramcons may not stay overnight at an oilfield.
Aramcons pride themselves on a Westernised culture handed down from their American forefathers before nationalisation in 1980.
This makes them confident they can handle the listing.
From the way [Aramco] was built, from the beginning I would say it was ready for an IPO, Mr Nasser says.
The main change, he adds, will be issuing quarterly results.
But that underplays the challenges ahead.
For one thing, Aramco is not master of its destiny.
The future of the IPO, such as the decision on where and when to list, is in the hands of the government shareholder, represented by Muhammad bin Salman, the crown prince.
Domestic political tension and external frictions with Qatar risk delaying the IPO until 2019and further muddying the waters.
The potential valuation is also contentious.
MBS, as the crown prince is known, has said he believes Aramco is worth $2trn, though many analysts think that is over-ambitious.
To improve its chances, the kingdom is leaning toward a listing on the New York Stock Exchange rather than in London, because America has deeper pools of capital.
However, that would expose Aramco to legal risks it would prefer to avoid.
In order to bring in Chinese investors, the kingdom is also considering issuing some shares in Hong Kong.
However strong Aramco may be upstream, its lower-margin refining and petrochemicals divisions will drag down the valuation.
Aramco has some intriguing plans to mitigate this, hoping in the next few years to build a plant with new technology to turn crude oil directly into petrochemicalsin essence, leap-frogging refineries.
But this is untested.
In sum, the IPO is more for the kingdoms benefit than Aramcos.
It could have drawbacksexposing the firm to investors with short time horizons or to activists hostile to fossil fuels.
But the Aramcons appear determined to make the most of it.
Executives argue that oils future is bright, even if electric cars and cleaner fuels emerge.
Low costs mean there is no danger Saudi oil will become a sunset industry, says Mohammed al-Qahtani, head of its upstream division.
A listing will make Aramco the envy of the rest of the world.
San Francisco became the first US city to sue Equifax over the historic hack that compromised the personal data of 143 million US citizens.
The city alleged that the Georgia-based credit-monitoring firm skirted California state laws by failing to maintain proper security procedures and giving residents timely and complete information when the company realized it had been hacked.
This company fell asleep at the switch and upended the lives of millions of people Now Californians have been put at risk of identity theft for years to come, City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in a statement Tuesday.
Equifax revealed this month that its data was compromised between May 13 through July 30.
The company learned of the breach on July 29 but did not disclose it until six weeks later on Sept. 7.
Fifteen million Californians had their data compromised, representing more than 10 percent of the 143 million US consumers affected by the breach.
Equifaxs incompetence would be comical if the subject matter werent so serious, Herrera said.
The city also faulted Equifax for not responding quickly to a publicized vulnerability with the open-source Apache Struts software it uses.
The vulnerability was disclosed on March 7 and a corrective patch was issued the same day.
Equifax did not install the patch or implement any other security measures, the complaint said.
When youre dealing with highly sensitive information, keeping your software up to date is such a basic step, Herrera said.
Herrera said that Equifax should have encrypted client data or stored it in separate data bases.
Equifax did none of that, Herrera said.
Reps from Equifax declined to comment specifically on the litigation.
The company said it wants to reassure consumers that we are remaining focused on helping them navigate the situation and providing the best customer support possible.
The NFLs TV ratings were a mixed bag in Week 3, but a strong showing for Monday Night Football lifted the weeks total NFL ratings by 3 percent over the same week last year.
The MNF match-up between the Dallas Cowboys and Arizona Cardinals generated a viewership gain of 63 percent over last seasons game.
Much of the ratings boost for the ESPN broadcast was attributed to a year-earlier broadcast that directly competed with a presidential debate.
While candidate Donald Trump helped reduce last years NFL viewership, many believe President Trump aided in this years Week 3 ratings boost by criticizing players kneeling during the national anthem.
Trumps attacks likely attracted more viewers to watch their favorite teams reactions.
Trump continued to criticize the leagues protesters Tuesday by tweeting, Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
On Monday night, Cowboys owner Jerry Jones knelt along with coaches and the entire team before the anthem was played.
They then stood and locked arms during the anthem.
It has never been about respect for the flag.
I think that narrative was debunked last night, NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said Tuesday.
Grilled by lawmakers on Capitol Hill, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission said Tuesday the agency still isnt sure how a breach of its electronic filing system happened last year.
The SEC revealed last week that hackers in 2016 broke into its so-called Edgar database, which is used by companies to disclose market-moving financial information, and may have traded on it for illicit gains.
At a Tuesday hearing, SEC Chairman Jay Clayton faced sharp criticism for the agencys handling of the breach, with US Senators griping about its lack of information on the incident and its sluggishness in revealing it.
What else are we not being told?
US Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) asked early in Tuesdays hearing, noting that the SEC waited six weeks to disclose the breach after discovering it.
How can you expect companies to do the right thing when your agency has not?
Other members of the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee expressed skepticism that the breach had been properly addressed.
If you do not know what caused the defect, why cant they do it again?
US Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.)
asked Clayton.
Clayton did not answer the question directly, saying the breach happened in a piece of custom software, noting that custom software is typically the most vulnerable.
In his opening testimony, Clayton said he initially decided in August to disclose the breach to the public when he learned it might have led to illicit gains, but waited several weeks until he felt we werent going to learn any more.
In the SECs Sept. 20 press release, the agency said the breach had been patched.
Senator Tester asked in what month the breach happened in 2016, and Clayton said he could not say.
Clayton, who has been in office for four months, said his predecessor Mary Jo White may have not known of the breach, appearing to deflect potential blame on her for not disclosing it.
Of course this breach took place under your predecessor  we recognize that  but the disclosure or, the lack thereof, is all yours, Brown said.
The breach provoked some lawmakers to lament the SECs broader failure to ensure a fair playing field for investors.
Noting that top executives at Equifax were selling shares ahead of disclosure of the companys massive data breach, US Sen. Heidi Heitkamp (R-N.D.) told Clayton that gamblers get a fairer shake from casinos than retail investors get from the stock market.
If gaming commissions in Nevada get an A or A-minus grade for keeping games of chance fair, You probably get a C, Heitkamp told Clayton.
If thats the case, SEC Chair Jay Clayton said, I want to change it.
Bradley Bondi, former counsel at the SEC and now a partner at Cahill Gordon and Reindel, said the hacking incident might have been prevented if the SEC hadnt abolished critical infrastructure, such as the Office of Internet Enforcement, at a time when cyber threats were growing.
This current problem likely stems from former SEC leadership who abdicated their duties by delegating their responsibilities to the SEC enforcement staff, Bondi told The Post.
Clayton said Tuesday he had turned to the Office of Inspector General for assistance in the investigation.
Senate Banking Committee Chair Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) said he was concerned that there have been breaches at the FDIC, IRS and now the SEC.
Coaches with some of the countrys top college basketball programs...

Adidas stock price fell more than 2 percent Tuesday morning following the revelation that a top exec was charged in a wide-ranging bribery scheme to lure college athletes into sportswear contracts.
James Gatto, the companys director of global sports marketing for basketball, is among a dozen defendants named in criminal complaints unsealed in Manhattan federal court.
Shares of the German sneaker company were trading at 187.50 euros each on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, down 2.61 percent, shortly after 11 a.m. New York time.
US Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said China needed to guarantee fair and reciprocal treatment for US firms as he tried to strike an upbeat tone on a visit to Beijing amid trade tensions between the two countries.
In a statement on Tuesday, the US Commerce Department said that Ross had also pressed China on the need to rebalance bilateral trade and investment relations and urged it to take meaningful action on trade issues.
Secretary Ross once again continued to stress the need for concrete action to address the concerns of US businesses, and that the US would take action to defend American workers and businesses if cooperative efforts bear no fruit, the department said.
China committed to further market opening and welcomed participation by US firms, with both sides supporting talks to resolve trade frictions, it said.
Ross met with senior Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Wang Yang, who handles an annual US-China economic dialogue, and He Lifeng, the head of Chinas state planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
His remarks came as the World Trade Organization published a US document showing the United States had asked China not to implement its new cyber security law, over concern it could damage global trade in services.
Speaking later in Hong Kong, Ross said the tone was pretty good between the US and China ahead of Trumps visit, but a lot of negotiating still had to take place before then.
Chinas relationship with the United States has been strained by the Trump administrations criticism of Chinas trade practices and by demands that Beijing do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programs.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Trump met for the first time in person at Trumps Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida in April.
Trump has since played up his personal relationship with Xi, even as he kept up his criticism of China over North Korea and trade.
The two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting, including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of American beef sales in China.
But US business groups have expressed disappointment that the talks have not yielded more progress in getting China to loosen restrictions on foreign investment in many sectors.
If the kind of trade relations China and the United States have are only beneficial to the Chinese side, then US companies would not continue to do so much business in China, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told a regular press briefing.
Rosss trip to China to prepare the ground for Trumps visit comes after the US administration earlier this month blocked a Chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a US-based chipmaker.
In August, Trump authorised an inquiry into Chinas alleged theft of intellectual property  the first direct trade measure by his administration against Beijing.
China has called that move irresponsible.
Twitter hit back at critics who said it should have taken down President Trumps weekend tweets on North Korea, arguing that they were newsworthy even though they appeared to be violent threats.
Trump had tweeted Saturday in response to a speech by North Koreas foreign minister Ri Yong-ho at the United Nations on Sunday, saying if he echoed the sentiments of Kim Jong-un, the pair wont be around for much longer.
North Koreas foreign minister called the presidents tweet a declaration of war and said The Hermit Kingdom now has the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers at any time.
The escalating rhetoric alarmed many Twitter users, who demanded to know why Trump wasnt violating the social networks rule that states users may not make threats of violence or promote violence.
In a thread posted by Twitter PublicPolicy, the company said the presidents tweets, although provocative, were of public interest.
We hold all accounts to the same Rules, and consider a number of factors when assessing whether Tweets violate our Rules, the tweet said.
Among the considerations is newsworthiness and whether a Tweet is of public interest.
According to Twitter PublicPolicy, the company will soon be updating its terms of conduct to better reflect this reasoning.
To crack down on white-collar crime, the director of enforcement at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is bringing tactics he learned as a criminal prosecutor in the South Bronx.
The CFTC will encourage Wall Street wrongdoers to self-report infractions  that is, turn themselves in and cooperate with the ensuing investigations, CFTC director of enforcement James McDonald told a group of financial pros Monday night at New York University School of Law.
The CFTCs carrot?
Well, significantly reduced penalties for those who turn themselves in, McDonald said.
To demonstrate the programs anticipated effectiveness, McDonald recalled working with low-level gang members in the South Bronx to get information he could use to prosecute higher-ranking gang members during his time as a prosecutor for the Southern District of New York.
Those cooperators gave us an inside perspective into how the gang worked, and who gave the orders, McDonald said.
He anticipates that the same methods that worked in gangs would also play out on Wall Street  and could lead to penalties for individuals.
One criticism in the wake of the financial crisis was how few individuals were successfully prosecuted for their wrongdoing.
SHANGHAI  It is no secret that the bulk of Ivanka Trumps merchandise comes from China.
But just which Chinese companies manufacture and export her handbags, shoes and clothes is more secret than ever, an Associated Press investigation has found.
In the months since she took her White House role, public information about the companies importing Ivanka Trump goods to the US has become harder to find.
Information that once routinely appeared in private trade tracking data has vanished, leaving the identities of companies involved in 90 percent of shipments unknown.
Even less is known about her manufacturers.
Trumps brand, which is still owned by the first daughter and presidential adviser, declined to disclose the information.
The deepening secrecy means its unclear whom Ivanka Trumps company is doing business with in China, even as she and her husband, Jared Kushner, have emerged as important conduits for top Chinese officials in Washington.
The lack of disclosure makes it difficult to understand whether foreign governments could use business ties with her brand to try to influence the White House  and whether her company stands to profit from foreign government subsidies that can destroy American jobs.
Such questions are especially pronounced in China, where state-owned and state-subsidized companies dominate large swaths of commercial activity.
There should be more transparency, but right now we do not have the legal mechanism to enforce transparency unless Congress requests information through a subpoena, said Richard Painter, who served as chief White House ethics lawyer for George W. Bush, and is part of a lawsuit against President Donald Trump for alleged constitutional violations.
I dont know how much money shes making on this and why its worth it.
I think its putting our trade policy in a very awkward situation.
An AP review of the records that are available about Ivanka Trumps supply chain found two potential red flags.
In one case, a province in eastern China announced the award of export subsidies to a company that shipped thousands of Ivanka Trump handbags between March 2016 and February of this year, Chinese public records show  a possible violation by China of global fair trade rules, trade experts said.
The AP also found that tons of Ivanka Trump clothing were exported from 2013 to 2015 by a company owned by the Chinese government, according to public records and trade data.
It is unclear whether the brand is still working with that company, or other state-owned entities.
Her brand has pledged to avoid business with state-owned companies now that shes a White House adviser, but contends that its supply chains are not its direct responsibility.
Ivanka Trumps brand doesnt actually make its products directly.
Instead, it contracts with licensees who oversee production of her merchandise.
In exchange, those licensees pay the brand royalties.
The AP asked Ivanka Trumps brand for a list of its suppliers.
The company declined to disclose them.
The clothing, footwear and handbag licensees contacted by AP also declined to reveal source factories.
Abigail Klem, president of IT Operations LLC, which manages Ivanka Trumps brand, said the company does not contract with foreign state-owned companies or benefit from Chinese government subsidies.
However, she acknowledged that its licensees might.
We license the rights to our brand name to licensing companies that have their own supply chains and distribution networks, Klem said in an email.
The brand receives royalties on sales to wholesalers and would not benefit if a licensee increased its profit margin by obtaining goods at a lower cost, she added.
But Michael Stone, chairman of Beanstalk, a global brand licensing agency, said lower production costs for licensees would ultimately benefit Ivanka Trump by freeing up money for marketing or lower retail prices, both of which drive sales.
It gives her a competitive advantage and an indirect benefit to her financially, Stone said.
The more successful the licensee is, the more successful Ivanka Trump is going to be.
The AP identified companies that sent Ivanka Trump products to the United States by looking at shipment data maintained by ImportGenius and Panjiva Inc., private companies that independently track global trade.
Panjivas records show that 85 percent of shipments of her goods to the US this year originated in China and Hong Kong, but beyond that, its becoming more difficult to map the brands global footprint.
The companies that shipped Ivanka Trump merchandise to the US are listed for just five of 57 shipments logged by Panjiva from the end of March, when she officially became a presidential adviser, through mid-September.
Panjiva collects data from US Customs and Border Protection, which did not immediately release the missing data to AP.
While in many cases the manufacturer ships goods directly, merchandise can also be made by one company and shipped by another trading or consolidation company.
There used to be more visibility.
Last year, 27 percent of the companies that exported Ivanka Trump merchandise to the US were identified in Panjivas records, and back in 2014 a full 95 percent were named.
For two of Ivanka Trumps licensees  G-III Apparel Group Ltd. and Marc Fisher Footwear  the number of shipments appears to plunge in 2015, likely because they requested to hide their shipment activity, according to Panjiva records.
Neither company responded to APs questions.
The brand declined to comment on the growing murkiness of its supply chain.
Chris Rogers, an analyst at Panjiva, said any company can ask customs authorities to redact its information for any reason.
About a quarter of companies request anonymity, he said, but the majority dont mind disclosing whom theyre doing business with.
A lot of companies have said, Yes, there might be a commercial disadvantage, but we want to be transparent about our supply chain,' he explained.
Why would we want to cover up the fact that were working with this particular company?'
While ethics lawyers may see disclosure as the best antidote to conflict of interest, many brands see it as a tool to keep supply chains scandal-free.
Public outcry over sweatshop conditions and worker suicides prompted companies like Nike Inc. and Apple Inc. to disclose the names and addresses of their manufacturers, and a growing number, including Gap Inc., the H&M Group, New Balance Athletics Inc., Adidas AG and Levi Strauss & Co., publicly identify their suppliers.
Ivanka Trump should do the same, said Allen Adamson, founder and CEO of BrandSimple Consulting.
Its a missed opportunity to lead by example.
What shipping records do show is that a company called Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group Co. Ltd., a sprawling conglomerate once majority-owned by the Chinese state, sent at least 30 tons of Ivanka Trump handbags to the US between March 2016 and February.
Zhejiang provinces commerce department said in June 2014 that it would help lower export costs for that same company, along with nine other local enterprises, through a special three-year trade promotion program.
Among the measures outlined were export insurance subsidies and funding for online trading platforms and international marketing, as well as special funds earmarked for foreign trade companies with large-scale, fast-growing exports.
The value of the subsidies is unclear, as are details about how the directives were implemented, but using subsidies to reduce the price of exports is considered so destructive to fair trade that the World Trade Organization generally bans the practice.
Chinese government subsidies hurt American workers but can lower costs for US companies that import made-in-China merchandise, potentially boosting their profits.
President Trump has called companies that benefit from foreign government subsidies cheaters.
The AP spoke with four trade experts in the United States and China who said the Zhejiang measures appeared to violate World Trade Organization rules.
These are clearly export subsidies, said Gary Hufbauer, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Zhejiang provinces Department of Commerce and the Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group declined comment.
The AP also found that from October 2013 to January 2015, Jiangsu High Hope International Group Corp., a conglomerate majority-owned by the Jiangsu provincial government, shipped 45 tons of Ivanka Trump clothing to the US, according to records from ImportGenius and Panjiva.
High Hope told AP it had a small number of business dealings with Ivanka Trump licensee G-III Apparel, but declined to answer questions about whether the relationship is ongoing.
G-III, which is based in New York City, declined to respond to specific questions but said in a statement that it is committed to legal compliance and ethical business practices in all of our operations worldwide.
Ivanka Trump licensee Mondani Handbags & Accessories Inc., also headquartered in New York, did not respond to requests for comment.
Ivanka Trumps brand said it was in the process of reviewing its supply chains with the help of independent experts whose mission it is to advance human rights and emphasized that all licensees, manufacturers, subcontractors and suppliers are required to abide by the law, as well as ethical practices set forth in a vendor code of conduct.
The AP asked to see the code of conduct, but the brand declined to share it.
NEW YORK  Equifax CEO Richard Smith is retiring effective immediately as the credit reporting agency tries to clean up the mess left by a damaging data breach that exposed highly sensitive information about 143 million Americans.
The shake-up announced Tuesday comes after Equifax disclosed that hackers exploited a software flaw that the company didnt fix to heist Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data that provide the keys to identify theft.
Smith will also step down from the chairman post.
He had been Equifaxs CEO since 2005.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. was named interim CEO, while board member Mark Feidler was appointed non-executive chairman.
Barros most recently served as president of the Asia Pacific region.
Equifax said it will conduct a search for a permanent CEO, considering both internal and external candidates.
While the company said in a statement that Smith was retiring, Equifax said in a regulatory filing that it has not entered into any other arrangement or agreement with Smith in connection with his retirement.
He will, however, serve as an unpaid adviser to help with the transition process.
The company said in the filing that Smith will not receive his annual bonus, and his other potential retirement-related benefits wont be awarded until Equifax concludes an independent review of the data breach.
The cybersecurity incident has affected millions of consumers, and I have been completely dedicated to making this right, Smith said in a statement.
At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward.
Although many analysts had applauded Equifaxs performance under Smith, he and the rest of his management team had come under fire for lax security and its response to the breach.
Equifax had tried to appease incensed lawmakers, consumers and investors on Sept. 15 with the unceremonious retirement of its chief security officer and chief information officer, who were responsible for managing and protecting the companys technology.
But that wasnt enough, with lawmakers drawing up bills that would impose sweeping reforms on Equifax and its two main rivals, Experian and TransUnion, and Equifaxs stock went into in a downfall that wiped out one third-of the Atlanta companys value  a $5.5 billion setback.
Smith had been scheduled to appear Oct. 3 during a congressional hearing that would likely have turned into a public lambasting.
Its not immediately clear whom Equifax will send in Smiths place to face lawmakers wrath.
The data breach might not have happened if Equifax had responded promptly to a March warning about a known security weakness in a piece of open-source software called Apache Struts.
Even though a repair was released, Equifax didnt immediately install it.
Digital burglars used the crack in Equifaxs computer systems to break in from May 13 through July 30, according to the companys accounting.
Equifax said it didnt fathom the breadth of information that had been stolen until shortly before issuing a public alert on Sept. 7, triggering the wave of withering condemnations that has led to Smiths departure.
The jobs of other Equifax executives could still be in jeopardy.
Three of them, including Equifaxs chief financial officer, are under scrutiny for selling some of their company shares for a combined $1.8 million before the breach disclosure hammered Equifaxs stock.
Smiths departure also wont make life any easier for most of the US adult population who had their information accessed through no fault of their own, but now have to worry about impostors assuming their identities to obtain credit cards and apply for loans so they can run up huge bills.
Equifax Inc. is providing a year of free protection against identify theft for anyone who wants it, but some lawmakers are trying to pressure the company into extending that offer for the next decade.
Some experts say that still isnt enough to guard against identify theft and are advising consumers to put a freeze on their files at Equifax, Experian and TransUnion to prevent anyone from getting a loan under their names.
A credit freeze, though, creates its own headaches, since it also prevents the person making it from getting a new credit card, mortgage, auto loan or even an expensive smartphone paid through monthly installments.
It also costs money to do at Experian and TransUnion in most states.
Equifax is temporarily waiving its normal fee for a credit freeze as another part of its effort to make amends for its security breakdown.
All right, its official.
The Federal Reserve really, really, really is going to start to unwind the $4 trillion-plus in stimulus it put into the US economy to fight the Great Recession.
Really, it is.
The Fed said so last week.
No more talk.
Its time for real action.
Really.
The problem is, the Fed hasnt yet disclosed how it is going to make disappear all the extra trillions in money it printed as part of quantitative easing and all of QEs offspring.
And Im sure Fed Chair Janet Yellen doesnt appreciate people like me bringing up that point.
Follow the bouncing ball.
The Fed printed those extra trillions so it could go out and purchase US government bonds.
By using those trillions, the Fed pretended to be a real bond buyer (a shill, as its called) in order to keep demand and bond prices artificially high  and thus, yields artificially low.
Now, to get rid of the trillions, it has to put those currency printing presses in reverse.
Yes, I know they didnt really print paper money; it was all computer entries.
But its the same thing except that some trees were saved.
To unwind  the popular term  what it has done, the Fed must either sell those bonds or wait until they mature to cash them in.
But that wouldnt normalize, er, unwind, the Feds balance sheet.
It would simply turn trillions of bonds into trillions in cash.
The Fed, by law, has to turn its profits over to the US Treasury Department every year.
So those trillions of dollars will go  well, I dont know where the money will go because the Fed isnt saying.
Will the trillions be used by the Treasury, once it gets hold of the money, to pretend that the countrys $20 trillion in debt has suddenly declined?
I say pretend because, remember, that QE money isnt real.
It was printed for the sole purpose of rigging bond auctions to keep interest rates low.
Or will President Trumps administration suddenly think it has trillions more to spend because of the Feds gift to the Treasury?
Either of those options would, using a Wall Street word, monetize the debt and risk dangerous inflation.
The pretend money would enter the real economy.
And thats a big no-no.
Another possibility?
A big symbolic bonfire in front of the Treasury building where the extra currency will be set ablaze.
Dont get too excited.
Since theres no paper money, someone will just click a few buttons on a Treasury computer and the money will magically disappear.
Whats wrong with that?
Very bad precedent.
When countries fool with their currencies  printing fake money to rig markets  it bodes badly for foreign investor confidence.
And with the level of debt the US now has, it needs foreigners more than ever to continue to buy our bonds.
Really, it could turn out badly.
HELP WANTED: I need a lawyer to take on the case of a government worker named Stefani Butler who has been retaliated against by the Census Bureau because she was a whistleblower  my whistleblower.
Stefani is a black woman, which could add a discrimination dimension to this case.
The lawyer needs to work on a contingency basis, has to be versed in whistleblower law and preferably be in the Washington, DC, area.
Im still following the case closely and what Census did to Butler is not only a disgrace but also breaks the law.
Lawyers: Contact me at the e-mail address that follows.
This case is a slam dunk.
New York on Monday announced a settlement with two payday lender operators  barring them from working in the state and forcing them to forgive roughly 20,000 loans worth roughly $12 million.
Total Account Recovery (TAR), a payday loan debt collector, and E-Finance Call Center Support, a payday loan servicer, had for years profited from preying on borrowers who fell behind on the high interest- rate loans, some of which carried interest rates as high as 25 percent, according to the states Department of Financial Services.
Payday lending is illegal in New York, and DFS will not tolerate predatory actors in our communities, DFS Superintendent Maria Vullo said in a statement.
While payday lending is illegal in New York, state residents can fall prey to the predatory loans through out-of-state lenders trolling online.
Vullo called out E-Finance for making unlawful misrepresentations to New Yorkers when requesting payments and negotiating payment agreements.
Between 2011 and 2014, TAR succeeded in getting 2,119 delinquent borrowers to pay up.
It collected a fee in each case, according to the DFS.
TAR, headed by Jeremy Schaffer, and E-Finance, headed by Joshua Mitchem, according to court papers, will pay a $45,000 penalty plus as much as $15,000 to cover the cost of sending notices to consumers whose loans were forgiven.
It isnt the first time that TAR and E-Finance  and related entities  have come under fire.
The Post found 35 civil complaints filed in 15 states in which TAR and a predecessor, Total Recovery Solutions, were listed as defendants in civil actions over the last six years.
Many of the complaints were filed in states where payday lending is legal, but the states called out the entities for violations of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act.
Attempts to reach lawyers for TAR and E-Finance were not successful.
The gasoline price gouging continues.
Right before Hurricane Harvey disrupted oil refineries in Texas, the average price of gasoline in the US was $2.38 a gallon.
Then it surged to $2.65 overnight because speculators in the investment community stoked fear of gas shortages  even though the supply of fuel didnt budge.
Now, gas is still at an average of $2.59  only a slight drop even though Harvey is gone and the other hurricanes didnt threaten gasoline production.
Why is it still high?
Because producers like to cheat consumers and they can get away with it.
Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) has asked the Federal Trade Commission to look into the gouging, and maybe the FTC will.
But heres a suggestion: Before our politicians debate whether we should pay less in taxes in the future, how about they help us pay less right now at the pump?
You probably heard that there are newly imposed sanctions against North Korea.
But Im told the nations that put those sanctions in place are worried North Korea is getting around them by using the bitcoin market to get secret financing.
And Im wondering if thats the reason China, which seems to be on board in pressuring North Korea, recently shut down bitcoin markets.
Bitcoin is a bitcon.
A Ponzi scheme  at least until the world realizes that the cryptocurrency can be used by people (and countries) for illicit purposes.
Dont be surprised if other nations follow Chinas lead and ban  as I like to call them  bitcons.
First Bowie Bonds.
Now Eminem Equity.
Fans of the rapper may soon be able to put their money where their heart is.
A small music industry company on Monday filed a mini-IPO for a company whose revenue stream will consist of royalties paid on songs owned by Eminem.
The mini-IPO will give individuals the opportunity to invest in music catalogs.
The Eminem-backed IPO, to be offered by Royalty Flow, consists of the rap icons master recordings from 1999 to 2013, when he worked with Funky Bass Team (FBT) Productions.
Royalty Flows parent company, Royalty Exchange, is an online platform that has been buying and selling royalty assets of all types since 2011.
Royal Exchange is working with FBT co-founders Jeff and Mark Bass, who helped discover Eminem.
That catalog accounts for more than 172 million album sales, making Eminem second only to Garth Brooks as the best-selling male artist of the last 25 years.
Royalties being readied for public ownership include the diamond-certified The Marshall Mathers LP and The Eminem Show.
Royalty Flows Regulation A+ offering  a type of funding established in 2012 to help small businesses raise capital  could receive Securities and Exchange Commission approval as soon as next month.
If so, that would make Royalty Flow stock the first equity backed by music royalties available to individual investors.
The plan borrows from aspects of Bowie Bonds  a 1997 issue that paid a 7.9 percent interest rate out of revenue accruing to David Bowies catalog  but uses equity instead of debt.
The possible Eminem-backed offering would consist of 3.3 million shares, priced at $15 apiece, that will eventually be listed on a public stock exchange, according to Royalty Exchange.
Proceeds will be used to buy up to 25 percent of Eminem music royalty rights from the Bass brothers, who discovered and signed the artist in 1995.
Eminem was not consulted about the equity offering, according to Rolling Stone.
Carl Icahn, activist investor and shareholder rights champion, can add a third title to his rsum: bathroom monitor.
Auto Plus, Icahns car parts distributor, has started monitoring the bathroom breaks taken by the Kennesaw, Ga., companys drivers, The Post has learned.
The company requires its drivers, who make runs to service stations to deliver car parts, to log out and then back in when they leave for and return from the facilities, said one part-time Massachusetts driver, speaking on background.
The drivers, who earn $11 an hour, still get paid for the potty breaks, but the company monitors their runs to the john so they are not abused, according to the worker.
The bathroom monitoring was one of several belt-tightening measures Auto Plus implemented this year, the driver said.
It also ended holiday pay, dental and eye coverage and disability benefits for its part-time drivers, who represent the largest portion of its workers, he said.
The bathroom monitoring is ridiculous, the driver said.
When I asked the human resources person if she has to log her bathroom breaks, she refused to respond.
I was told that it was a way to keep track when drivers were ready [to make deliveries], the driver beefed.
How long does it take to take a leak?
When contacted Monday, Andrew Langham, an Icahn Enterprises lawyer, said, We have over 1,200 stores and this is the first we are hearing of these problems.
Separately, the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau on Sept. 20 filed a demand letter to Auto Plus on behalf of the driver, alleging that he has been accruing sick time at a rate that falls below the state legal minimum since Jan. 1, according to a copy of the letter reviewed by The Post.
Icahn bought Auto Plus for $340 million in 2015 and found it to be a poorly run business, a source said.
Drama over the national anthem and President Trumps calls to boycott the NFL didnt appear to have a conclusive effect on the leagues latest ratings.
NBCs Sunday Night Football match-up between the Redskins and the Raiders saw an 11 percent dip in ratings compared with the same week last year, but CBS enjoyed an 11 percent ratings boost in its Sunday double-header, according to Forbes.
Foxs afternoon game had 16 percent fewer eyeballs compared with last year.
Generally, NFL viewership is declining  the leagues 2016 ratings dropped 8 percent compared with 2015.
With Post wires
Giggle, the posh baby gear chain that has clothed its share of privileged Manhattan tykes, has left scores of fuming mothers high and dry.
Last week it quietly closed its SoHo and Upper East Side stores in Manhattan and began lugging the leftover strollers, clothing, bedding and furniture to the remaining Upper West Side store at 451 W. Broadway.
Now that store is going out of business, too, according to papers filed in Manhattan state court.
As word of the store closures spread  moms and moms-to-be took to the UES Mommas Facebook page to rant  and to panic.
Many of them had recently purchased expensive items from the stores, had their baby registry with it or were sitting on generous gift cards that might be worth nothing now.
I have $1,000 in Giggle gift cards that I dont know what to do with, Jessica-Ann Cohen, who is expecting her first child in December, told The Post.
Cohen, whod been a huge fan of the 14-year-old business, also recently bought a $1,500 stroller from Giggle.
If something is wrong with it I dont know who will do something about it, she lamented.
Giggle stores in Denver and in Santa Monica and San Francisco, Calif., are also closing.
as they, like the Manhattan stores, were hurt by sales moving to online rivals, according to a lawyer for the company.
Unfortunately, like many brick and mortar retailers its fortunes suffered with the migration of shoppers to the Internet, the lawyer, Sanford Rosen, wrote in a Sept. 20 liquidation plan, also known as an assignment of assets to creditors  sort of a bankruptcy filing on the state level.
Last year, Giggle had six stores, 54 employees and pulled in $32.1 million in sales, according to the filing.
Its sales were fueled by customers like Candace Dael, who had $368 left on a gift card from her baby shower nearly a year ago.
When the Big Apple stores began closing and the buzz on the UES Mommas Facebook page grew, Dael tried to get answers from out-of-state Giggle stores.
She was told that she could use her gift card in the Denver or California stores only and quickly had a family member go to the Santa Monica store.
But the store was so picked clean, Dael ended up purchasing an $1,000 Austlen-Entourage stroller that she has since listed on Craigslist.
Im surprised that they would treat their customers this way in the end with zero information, she said.
Another Upper East Side mom, who did not want to be identified, said she bought a Bugaboo Donkey stroller that ordinarily retails for $1,800 for 25 percent off in August.
The stroller arrives in three shipments, and shes still waiting for the third one to arrive.
In addition, Giggles former president and chief operating officer, Beth Guastella, a former Cole Haan executive, sued the chain to win $102,596 in severance she claimed she is owed.
One enterprising entrepreneur, Marina Miller, is honoring the remaining Giggle gift card balances if mothers transfer their baby registry to her web site, Peurobaby.com.
Its an upfront cost for us now, but it gets us new customers and we are counting on the registry, Miller said, adding that 10 moms have made the switch already.
A California judge has told Michael Jacksons production company to beat it.
see also Michael Jackson estate owes Quincy Jones $9.4M: jury A Los Angeles jury on Wednesday determined that Michael Jacksons...
The late singers company had hoped to cut the $9.4 million award a state court jury handed to producer Quincy Jones on July 26, but a judge last week turned that effort aside.
Jones claimed Jackos company cheated him out of money for work on the Thriller, Bad and Off the Wall albums because music from those best-selling discs was included in the posthumous Jackson documentary, This Is It.
The producer also claimed Jacksons MJJ Productions remixed the master recordings to deprive him of profits and shortchanged his royalties after the singers death in 2009 spurred catalog sales.
MJJ agreed that Jones was entitled to more money  but claimed the amount was limited to $392,000.
Jones had demanded $30 million.
The jury determined its award after a two-week trial, which MJJ followed up by asserting Jones had failed to prove remix damages, royalty withholdings and other neglected payments factored into the judgment.
The controversy over Russian ads is pummeling Facebooks stock.
Reports that Facebook had trouble identifying ads from Russian trolls during the 2016 US presidential election, as well as Facebooks ad team getting caught this month saying it reaches more Americans than actually exist, have eroded trust in the social network, critics say.
In a Monday note, Pivotal Research media analyst Brian Wieser said that being able to trust that Facebook has mastered its data is crucial for advertisers.
A significant share of spending on advertising occurs simply because it is perceived to be effective, or because tools used to assess spending effectiveness are really used to justify a choice or refine pre-existing budgets, Wieser said.
Facebook shares on Monday slid 4.5 percent to $162.87.
Thats despite the fact that CEO Mark Zuckerberg late Friday backed off a proposal to create a new class of Facebook shares, which would have allowed him to sell his shares in the company while still retaining voting control.
Several shareholders had filed a class action lawsuit against Facebook in an effort to stop the reclassification of the stock, arguing that not having voting rights could tank the value of their shares.
Zuckerberg had initially wanted to create the new stock classification so that he could continue to control the company while donating 99 percent of his shares before the end of his life.
The plan stirred up controversy, especially after text exchanges that were made public last December revealed Zuckerberg was being advised on his plans by Marc Andreessen, a Facebook board member who was supposed to be representing all Facebook shareholders.
In a statement posted on his own Facebook page late Friday, Zuckerberg said he backed off the proposal, first floated last year, because Facebooks shares have since shot up in value.
Over the past year and a half, Facebooks business has performed well and the value of our stock has grown to the point that I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more, Zuckerberg posted.
The 33-year-old tech tycoon said he still plans to sell up to 75 million Facebook shares over the next 18 months  currently worth nearly $13 billion  to fund the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a charity he co-founded last year with his wife, Priscilla Chan.
Had the plan not been scrapped, Zuckerberg would have had to testify in court Tuesday at a tumultuous time for his company.
Just last week, Zuckerberg detailed a nine-point plan to investigate Russian interference in the 2016 election, announcing that the social network will handle political advertising with a higher standard of transparency in the future.
Wilbur Ross: China 'quite serious' about living up to N.Korea commitments 1 Hour Ago | 02:23

China is "quite serious about living up to the commitments they have made regarding North Korea," U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
The order for mainland lenders to stop doing business with Pyongyang "is a logical next step in the sanctions, and a very important one," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"Chinese commercial banks had been a big route for facilitation of trade to North Korea so the fact that the PBOC has put out a taboo, that's a very big deal," the billionaire said, referring to China's central bank, or the People's Bank of China.
Last week, sources told Reuters that the PBOC had instructed domestic banks to implement United Nations sanctions against the rogue state.
The development comes on the heels of Pyongyang's sixth nuclear test earlier this month and follows incessant demands from President Donald Trump for more Chinese action against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
On Tuesday, the U.S. Treasury Department announced new sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation as part of efforts to cut off financial support for Kim's weapons programs.
The PBOC move was "a gigantic step" and assuming that it's followed through, "that's a very good sign, very, very important pressure," said 79-year-old Ross, who made a fortune investing in distressed assets before joining the White House.
India's economic growth hit a three-year low during the April-June period, enveloping Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a barrage of criticism for poor execution of major reforms such as the recent national sales tax and demonetization.
But a new World Economic Forum study indicates his government has made progress in strengthening overall business sentiment.
The South Asian giant ranked 40th out of 137 countries on the organization's 2017 global competitiveness ranking  one spot lower than last year's edition, but still its highest-ever score in WEF's current methodology.
National competitiveness is defined as a set of institutions, policies and factors that determine a country's level of productivity.
Improvement across most pillars of competitiveness, particularly infrastructure and higher education, reflects recent public investments in these areas, WEF said.
Strides in labor market efficiency, especially the nation's ability to attract and retain talent, also helped India's 2017 ranking, the Swiss foundation added.
"The quality of institutions has increased further, especially in terms of efficiency of public spending."
Modi's government has pledged to spend a record $60 billion on infrastructure this financial year, but concerns are rampant that lower tax collections and weak economic growth could force New Delhi to cut expenditures.
Nike delivered a mixed bag of results on Tuesday, posting strong sales growth in its international geographies, particularly China.
But wholesale revenues continued to decline in North America into the fiscal first quarter.
In a competitive retail environment, Nike has been seen as racking up expenses, favoring discounts and heavy spending to grow its direct-to-consumer business.
Nike said on Tuesday, though, that it's been working to cut costs, reporting that selling, general and administrative expenses fell 1 percent, to $2.9 billion, in the first quarter.
The athletic footwear and apparel retailer's stock was falling more than 3 percent after market close on the news.
Shares had initially climbed near 3 percent.
Here's what Nike reported, compared to what Wall Street was expecting, based on a Thomson Reuters survey of analysts:

Earnings of 57 cents a share, excluding items, compared with a forecast profit of 48 cents per share.
Revenue was $9.07 billion, versus an estimate of $9.08 billion.
"This quarter, we captured near-term opportunities through our new Consumer Direct Offense," CEO Mark Parker said in a statement.
"Looking ahead to the rest of fiscal 2018, we will ignite NIKE's next horizon of global growth through the strength of our brand, the power of our innovative products and the most personal, digitally-connected experiences in our industry," Parker added.
Nike's first-quarter net income fell to $950 million, or 57 cents per share, from $1.25 billion, or 73 cents per share, one year ago.
The 24 percent drop in quarterly profit could be attributed to gross margin decline, a higher effective tax rate and other expenses, Nike said.
Excluding certain items, Nike earned 57 cents a share, topping analysts' estimate of 48 cents per share, according to a Thomson Reuters survey.
Total revenue was $9.07 billion, about flat when compared to the same period last year.
Revenue for the Nike brand was $8.6 billion, up 2 percent on a currency-neutral basis, while sales for Converse were $483 million, down 16 percent and driven lower by declines in North America, the company said.
Nike added that it repurchased a total of 15.3 million shares for about $849 million during the first quarter, part of its four-year, $12 billion buyback program, which was approved in 2015.
As of Aug. 31, 2017, Nike has repurchased 95 million shares under the program, for $5.3 billion.
A lower average share count this quarter helped the company offset other expenses, Nike explained.
Looking to its product categories, Nike saw the highest sales, or $5.5 billion, in footwear.
Nike's apparel revenue came in at $2.7 billion for the quarter, while equipment revenue was $420 million.
In June, Nike revealed plans to cut about 2 percent of its global workforce, also trimming its geography segments from six to four: North America; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Greater China; and Asia-Pacific and Latin America.
Nike's Greater China segment in the first quarter brought $1.1 billion in sales, up 9 percent from a year ago.
North America sales came in at $3.9 billion, down 3 percent and weighing on Nike's overall results.
"The decrease in revenue was a function of short-term promotional headwinds in the broader marketplace," CEO Parker said on the company's earnings conference call about Nike's domestic sales.
Nike's Asia Pacific & Latin America revenue rose 5 percent, while Europe, Middle East & Africa sales were up 4 percent for the quarter.
Micron Technology reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts' expectations on Tuesday.
Here's how the company did compared with what Wall Street expected:

EPS: $2.02 vs. $1.83 expected, according to Thomson Reuters

Revenue: $6.14 billion vs. $5.96 billion expected, according to Thomson Reuters

In the year-ago quarter, Micron reported an adjusted loss per share of 1 cent on $3.22 billion in revenue.
Micron shares gained as much as 4 percent in after-hours trade.
CEO Sanjay Mehrotra said Micron expects "healthy industry fundamentals to continue into 2018."
For the fiscal first quarter, Micron said it expects earnings between $2.09 and $2.23 a share on revenue between $6.10 billion and $6.50 billion.
Those ranges were well above Street expectations.
Analysts had projected first-quarter earnings of about $1.85 per share on $6.06 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Wall Street has said Micron could benefit from growing demand for memory products as new technology markets open up.
Areas like artificial intelligence and networking may drive a growing share of demand for products from chipmakers like Micron.
Analysts have been optimistic about the stock.
The average price target on Micron shares was near $44.88 before Tuesday's close, implying a roughly 29 percent upside.
Shares of Micron have rocketed nearly 60 percent so far this year, outperforming the 23 percent gain in the broader S&P 500 Information Technology sector.
The stock hit a 52-week intraday high of $36.60 last week.
The stock closed at $34.18 on Tuesday.
This is breaking news.
Please check back for updates.
Last week, we learned that Treasury Secretary Steve "Can I borrow a government jet for my honeymoon" Mnuchin isn't the only one in the Trump administration who goes to great, taxpayer-funded lengths to avoid taking commercial flights like some kind of commoner.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, too, has all but made it a rule that he must travel via chartered planes, following a traumatic incident wherein the former congressman suffered through a flight delay.
(Never again, he swore.)
According to an investigation by Politico, since being confirmed, Price has taken private planes for official business at a cost of at least $400,000 to taxpayers, often for short trips like from D.C. to Philadelphia where airline tickets run in the low hundreds, and a car or train ride would have just as easily sufficed.
In contrast, Price's predecessor, Kathleen Sebelius took just one private flight during her five-plus years on the job, to a remote part of Alaska that would have been otherwise unreachable.
Invoicing taxpayers to avoid even the possibility of being delayed was never going to be a great look.
But for Price, the optics are especially bad because 1) he is currently working to cut billions of dollars in health-care subsidies and slash funding from the National Institutes of Health and 2) back when he was a congressman, he literally made railing against the use of private jets by government employees one of his pet causes.
James Dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner, said his company was building a "radical" all-electric car for launch in 2020, with a commitment to spend 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) on solid-state battery technology and vehicle design.
Dyson said a 400-strong team of engineers had already spent two and a half years working on the secret project in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, developing the batteries that will power the in-house designed electric motor for the car.
He said on Tuesday he had not yet decided where the vehicle would be manufactured, although he had ruled out working with any existing auto companies.
This was supposed to be a big week for President Trump.
His hopes of repealing and replacing Obamacare hang in the balance.
He's set to push a major tax reform plan.
He's campaigned hard for a Republican candidate whose Alabama primary race is on Tuesday.
And he's trying to project strength and efficiency as his administration grapples with the aftermath of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico  and the nuclear threat from North Korea.
So what's Trump talking about at the start of this critical week?
More from USA Today:

Analysis: Trump's approach to sports breaks with long bipartisan tradition

Sanders on Trump's NFL insults: 'It's always appropriate' for president to defend flag

Equifax CEO retiring amid cyberbreach fallout

Football players.
So far, Trump appears to be forgoing a closing argument on his policy proposals  and instead escalating his feud with the National Football League and superstar athletes.
Ever since he called football players who sit or kneel during the national anthem "sons of b-----" at a rally on Friday and encouraged the NFL to fire them for their political protest, Trump has perpetuated the controversy  for four straight days.
Trump has tweeted or retweeted comments about the NFL flap at least 18 times since Saturday morning.
Star football and basketball athletes have in turn accused Trump of racially charged threats to free speech  and the squabble playing out over Twitter and the news media is dwarfing his message on the rest of his agenda.
That may be the plan, some analysts said, because many of those other issues aren't going so well.
"Trump will always change the subject if there's something bad going on," said Republican strategist Rich Galen.
Others said it's just Trump being Trump  responding to whatever catches his eye.
"I think it's classic Trump, listening to his gut and letting it rip," said Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to Republican President George W. Bush.
Whatever his motivation, Trump is ensuring that his feud with pro sports is getting a stadium full of attention at a pivotal time for an administration facing low approval ratings, political divisions among Republicans, and even threats of war over North Korea.
In the Senate, Republicans are struggling to round up enough votes behind a plan to repeal and replace President Barack Obama's health care law.
The Republicans are racing against the clock.
After Sept. 30, the chamber's rules change and lawmakers won't be able to pass a new bill with just 50 votes.
This is critical, since past health care efforts to overhaul health care have failed even with 52 Republicans.
A health care success could give Trump legislative momentum as he lobbies for a tax reform; a defeat could make it that much tougher.
Trump is launching a national tour of political battleground states to promote a package to reduce the corporate tax rate and simplify the tax code.
On Wednesday, he is scheduled to visit Indiana to discuss tax reform.
Trump himself faces a big political test on Tuesday, in a political primary race taking place in a hotbed for college football: Alabama.
The president has gone out of his way to back Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to the seat after Trump named Jeff Sessions as attorney general.
Strange is opposed Roy Moore, who is backed by prominent Trump supporters such as former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former White House senior adviser Steve Bannon.
Polls give Moore an edge  and a Strange loss would deal Trump a defeat in his personal efforts to reshape the Republican Party.
In his remarks to at the rally, Trump said he was taking a "big risk" with his endorsement of Strange "because if Luther doesn't make it they're going to go after me" and argue he has no political strength.
"I might have made a mistake and I'll be honest I might have made a mistake.
Because, you know, here's a story, if Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," he said.
"They're going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.
It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment.
I mean, these are bad people."
Yet Trump's support for Strange on Friday night in Huntsville were not what generated the headlines from the rally.
Instead, there was one epic line that's still circulating on the media: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now?
He's fired!
he's fired!"
Trump told a cheering crowd.
Trump's follow-up tweets throughout the weekend  including one in which he uninvited pro basketball champions Golden State Warriors to the White House  drew hits from a succession of pro athletes.
They ranged from basketball's LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum," to football's Tom Brady, who said Trump's comments were "just divisive."
The sports question dominated the White House press briefing on Monday.
Pressed about whether Trump went too far by using the words "sons of b----," spokeswoman Sarah Sanders repeatedly deflected, insisting it was "always appropriate" for the president of the United States to defend the American flag and national anthem.
"Look, this isn't about the president being against anyone," she said.
"But this is about the president and millions of Americans being for something, being for honoring our flag, honoring our national anthem and honoring the men and women who fought to defend it."
It's not just domestic policy challenges that Trump is facing this week.
Trump went to the United Nations last week to confront North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
Describing Kim Jong Un as "Rocket Man," Trump said the North Korean leader is risking "suicide" if it attacks the United States or its allies in Asia  and raised the specter of nuclear warfare.
On Monday in New York, North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters his country regards Trump's comments as a declaration of war.
"Since the U.S. declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down the U.S. bombers even when they are not yet inside the airspace border of our country," he said.
Also hovering over the administration: An ongoing investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into possible links between Trump's team and Russians who sought to influence last year's presidential election, and whether the president sought to obstruct justice by firing FBI Director James Comey.
"Don't forget he's got Mueller breathing down his neck," Republican strategist Galen said.
Changing the subject has been a habit for Trump, whether it's holding a 77-minute news conference in order to generate new headlines after firing National Security Adviser Michael Flynn or claiming there were millions of illegal voters after he lost the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Republican consultant Liz Mair, who worked with "Never Trump" organizations during last year's campaign, said the bottom line is whether Trump has "successfully distracted his base" from bad news stories.
The NFL flap may look "stupid and ham-handed to a lot of Beltway consultant types," Mair said, but remember: It could work for him because millions of Americans agree with his position.
"Ultimately, there's a lot of data out there showing that sports fans really do rally to the national anthem," Mair said.
"If the numbers of players who take a knee rises and that's perceived as anti-national anthem or anti-flag, it could become a big repetitional problem for the NFL and individual teams, fairly or not."
Fleischer, who now runs a sports communications company, said Trump made a valid point in bad way, particularly with the reference to "sons of b----."
The flap surrounding his comments is the kind of thing that has happened before, he said, and will likely happen again.
"This has been the Trump candidacy and the Trump presidency for two years now," he said.
"It's his style."
Space company Rocket Lab announced plans Tuesday for the second of three test flights.
Final vehicle tests begin next month, the New Zealand-based company said.
The window for the launch from Rocket Lab's complex on New Zealand's Mahia Peninsula will open a few weeks after completion of the tests, it said.
The mission involves deploying four small satellites from private companies Planet Labs and Spire.
In its inaugural launch on May 25, Rocket Lab's Electron vehicle failed to reach orbit.
CEO Peter Beck said problems involving "third-party error" have been fixed and no major change was made to Electron's hardware.
"We're eager to test the next crucial step  payload deployment," Beck said in a statement.
This would be the first test of its orbital deployment systems, which Beck called "a significant milestone for the Electron program."
Planet Labs senior director Mike Safyan said his company was excited "to quite literally be riding the leading edge."
Spire CEO Peter Platzer called the rapid preparations key to the success of his company and Rocket Lab.
Planet Lab's two Dove satellites will be used for Earth imagining, and Spire's Lemur-2 satellites are intended for mapping weather and tracking ships.
Rocket Lab's second test comes at a critical time.
It has contracted to launch five Electron rockets for lunar mining company Moon Express as early as next spring.
Lufthansa's supervisory board has approved plans by the airline to invest in up to 61 additional planes for its Eurowings budget arm, seeking to fill the gap left by insolvent German rival Air Berlin.
The investment in purchasing and leasing 41 A320 single aisle jets and 20 Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 planes will total around 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) and is partly dependent on a successful conclusion of talks to take over assets from Air Berlin, Lufthansa said on Tuesday.
Kohl's said Tuesday Chairman and CEO Kevin Mansell will retire in May, having served 35 years with the department store chain.
Mansell will be succeeded by Chief Merchandising and Customer Officer Michelle Gass, who spent nearly two decades working at coffee giant Starbucks and began her career with Procter & Gamble.
The board plans to appoint one of its independent members as chairman, effective when Mansell retires at the close of Kohl's 2018 shareholders meeting.
Gass will stand for election to the company's board at that time.
The company also said it tapped Sona Chawla, its chief operating officer as president.
Prior to joining Kohl's, Chawla worked at Walgreens Boots Alliance.
"We believe these are strong internal promotions with the necessary skill set to take KSS to the next level," Jefferies analyst Randal Konik wrote in a Tuesday note to clients.
"We continue to view KSS as a share gainer, and see further [opportunity] as initiatives take hold."
Konik noted that Gass has been spearheading Kohl's latest partnership with Amazon.
Just last week, Kohl's announced it will accept Amazon returns at 82 locations.
The department store chain has also begun selling Amazon devices, such as the Echo and Fire tablets, at 10 stores.
For Kohl's, these deals could lure more shoppers into its stores, as falling foot traffic has become a threatening trend in retail.
In an interview with CNBC, Mansell said Gass has "an amazing ability to lead teams and inspire people."
"Everything in her development and growth, for example, bringing in new brands, our collaboration with Amazon, these are all indications about someone that has a mind for innovation, which is a litmus test in this environment," Mansell said.
Mansell's nearly decade-long tenure as CEO coincided with the Great Recession.
During that time, he grew the retailer's e-commerce business to $3 billion in sales.
In a statement, Gass acknowledged the challenges the industry faces.
"We are resilient, innovative and agile, and will continue to make investments in our business to provide compelling customer experiences that pave the path for our future success," the incoming CEO said.
Kohl's shares were off less than 1 percent in trading Tuesday.
The stock has fallen about 6 percent in 2017, but is up more than 20 percent during the past three months.
CNBC's Courtney Reagan contributed to this reporting.
The inability of the U.S administration to pass new tax cuts has delayed the next boom and bust cycle in the country, according to one economist, who is still predicting that the U.S. is ultimately headed for a recession.
Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told CNBC in March that he believed the U.S. was facing a downturn in the next two years as a result of excessive fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration.
On Tuesday, he revealed his view had now changed.
"First, like a lot of people, but I'll take it on myself, I got wrong the timing of the tax cuts.
I couldn't believe they would spend this long before getting to a budget with Congress, that they would waste all this time on non-proposals with health care," he told CNBC on Tuesday.
Posen, who served at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the mid-1990s, said stimulus is still on the way in the form of significant business tax cuts that will be unfunded, but will be a year later than he thought.
"That pushes back the date at which the Fed will have to raise (interest rates) a lot," he said.
Posen's prediction is that tax cuts and deregulation will lead to a boom-bust cycle as the Federal Reserve will tighten policy to stave off a credit boom.
Despite the administration's failure to pass much major legislation, as well as divisions in the Republican Party, Posen does believe tax cuts will be delivered as politicians will want a win ahead of the mid-term elections.
"They can't go into the mid-term elections, face constituents and have done nothing.
The failures in health care and everything else means they have to deliver and tax cuts are the most obvious thing," he said.
"Secondly, I've always been very cynical of Congress' so-called budget hawks on the budget.
The history of the U.S. basically since 1974, every time Congress passes a rule on itself to restrict the budget, it violates that rule within two to four years."
He says the idea that Tea Party Republicans and budget hawks won't allow tax cuts because they may bust the budget is "ridiculous" and predicts they will all agree on tax cuts in the end.
Nestle said strong cash generation would let it accelerate its share buyback program of up to 20 billion Swiss francs ($20.67 billion) by spreading it evenly over three years, instead of backloading it in 2019 and 2020 as initially announced in June.
Nestle shares were up 1 percent at 81.95 Swiss francs by 5.10 a.m.
ET and investors were broadly supportive of the plan.
"This is a balance that gives them the ability to stay at work without having the distraction of whether they'll concede a margin guidance, but at the same time not burden themselves from making the kind of bold investments that are required to deliver long-term value," said Thomas Russo of Gardner Russo & Gardner, which has a Nestle stake worth more than $1 billion.
Russo, whose firm is based in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, has been a sizeable shareholder for over 30 years.
The difference between Nestle and other consumer companies that have a higher margin target, Russo said, is that "they have enormous fuel in their tank going forward and others end up running out of gas by virtue of making higher near-term results than Nestle's."
ZKB analyst Patrik Schwendimann was also positive.
"We consider the new margin target as reasonable because it leaves room for investment in the future and to reach the unchanged target of mid-single digit sales growth by 2020," he said in a note.
The AP also found that tons of Ivanka Trump clothing were exported from 2013 to 2015 by a company owned by the Chinese government, according to public records and trade data.
It is unclear whether the brand is still working with that company, or other state-owned entities.
Her brand has pledged to avoid business with state-owned companies now that she's a White House adviser, but contends that its supply chains are not its direct responsibility.
Ivanka Trump's brand doesn't actually make its products directly.
Instead, it contracts with licensees who oversee production of her merchandise.
In exchange, those licensees pay the brand royalties.
The AP asked Ivanka Trump's brand for a list of its suppliers.
The company declined to disclose them.
The clothing, footwear and handbag licensees contacted by AP also declined to reveal source factories.
Abigail Klem, president of IT Operations, which manages Ivanka Trump's brand, said the company does not contract with foreign state-owned companies or benefit from Chinese government subsidies.
However, she acknowledged that its licensees might.
"We license the rights to our brand name to licensing companies that have their own supply chains and distribution networks," Klem said in an email.
"The brand receives royalties on sales to wholesalers and would not benefit if a licensee increased its profit margin by obtaining goods at a lower cost," she added.
But Michael Stone, chairman of Beanstalk, a global brand licensing agency, said lower production costs for licensees would ultimately benefit Ivanka Trump by freeing up money for marketing or lower retail prices, both of which drive sales.
"It gives her a competitive advantage and an indirect benefit to her financially," Stone said.
"The more successful the licensee is the more successful Ivanka Trump is going to be."
The AP identified companies that sent Ivanka Trump products to the United States by looking at shipment data maintained by ImportGenius and Panjiva Inc., private companies that independently track global trade.
Panjiva's records show that 85 percent of shipments of her goods to the U.S. this year originated in China and Hong Kong, but beyond that, it's becoming more difficult to map the brand's global footprint.
The companies that shipped Ivanka Trump merchandise to the U.S. are listed for just five of 57 shipments logged by Panjiva from the end of March, when she officially became a presidential adviser, through mid-September.
Panjiva collects data from U.S. Customs and Border Protection, which did not immediately release the missing data to AP.
While in many cases the manufacturer ships goods directly, merchandise can also be made by one company and shipped by another trading or consolidation company.
There used to be more visibility.
Last year, 27 percent of the companies that exported Ivanka Trump merchandise to the U.S. were identified in Panjiva's records, and back in 2014 a full 95 percent were named.
For two of Ivanka Trump's licensees  G-III Apparel and Marc Fisher Footwear  the number of shipments appears to plunge in 2015, likely because they "requested to hide" their shipment activity, according to Panjiva records.
Neither company responded to AP's questions.
The brand declined to comment on the growing murkiness of its supply chain.
Chris Rogers, an analyst at Panjiva, said any company can ask customs authorities to redact its information for any reason.
About a quarter of companies request anonymity, he said, but the majority don't mind disclosing who they're doing business with.
"A lot of companies have said, 'yes there might be a commercial disadvantage, but we want to be transparent about our supply chain,'" he explained.
"'Why would we want to cover up the fact that we're working with this particular company?'"
While ethics lawyers may see disclosure as the best antidote to conflict of interest, many brands see it as a tool to keep supply chains scandal-free.
Public outcry over sweatshop conditions and worker suicides prompted companies like Nike Inc. and Apple Inc. to disclose the names and addresses of their manufacturers, and a growing number, including Gap Inc., the H&M Group, New Balance Athletics Inc., Adidas AG and Levi Strauss & Co., publicly identify their suppliers.
Ivanka Trump should do the same, said Allen Adamson, founder and CEO of BrandSimple Consulting.
"It's a missed opportunity to lead by example."
What shipping records do show is that a company called Zhejiang Tongxiang Foreign Trade Group Co. Ltd., a sprawling conglomerate once majority-owned by the Chinese state, sent at least 30 tons of Ivanka Trump handbags to the U.S. between March 2016 and February.
Ataribox  the latest console from gaming pioneer Atari  will likely hit stores next year.
The console will be powered by an AMD-customized processor and run on operating system Linux.
In an announcement Tuesday, the Ataribox team said it would seek to raise funds for the console on crowd-funding platform Indiegogo "this fall (read: pretty soon)."
"We want you to have early access, grab special editions (and pricing) and to have you as active partners in the rollout of Ataribox," the team said.
Atari's newest console is a modern take on the popular late 1970s console, the Atari 2600.
Ataribox claims it will bring a "full PC experience for the TV," and deliver home-focused features such as video streaming, social media, web browsing and music.
The brand has developed some of the most well-known household names in arcade gaming, like Pong.
A diamond weighing 1,109 carats  the largest found since 1905  has sold for $53 million.
The Lesedi La Rona, which means "Our Light" in the Twsana language, was found in a Botswana mine in November 2015.
It is the third biggest diamond ever found, and the second largest of gem quality.
Diamond miner Lucara announced it had sold the Lesedi La Rona to Graff Diamonds on Monday for $53 million, or $47,777 per carat.
"The discovery of the Lesedi La Rona was a company defining event for Lucara.
It solidified the amazing potential and rareness of the diamonds recovered at the Karowe mine," William Lamb, president and CEO of Lucara, said in a press release.
"The price paid is also an improvement on the highest bid received at the Sotheby's auction in June 2016."
Lucara tried to sell the diamond at auction last year, but none of the bids met its undisclosed minimum reserve price, according to Reuters.
Laurence Graff, founder of jewel supplier Graff Diamonds, said his company was "thrilled and honored" to own the diamond.
"The stone will tell us its story, it will dictate how it wants to be cut, and we will take the utmost care to respect its exceptional properties," he said in a press release.
"I am privileged to be given the opportunity to honor the magnificent natural beauty of the Lesedi La Rona."
German industrial group Siemens is likely to decide on Tuesday to pursue a multibillion-dollar rail merger with French rival Alstom rather than Canada's Bombardier, two sources familiar with the matter told Reuters.
The three major train and rail technology groups active in Europe have been looking at combining their businesses as larger Chinese state-backed rival CRRC embarks on a global expansion drive.
"I think Alstom will make it," one of the people said on Monday.
The second person said Siemens' supervisory board would decide the matter on Tuesday, also describing Alstom as the front-runner.
Siemens, Alstom and Bombardier declined to comment.
Siemens and Alstom are strong in high-speed intercity trains with their ICE and TGV models.
Siemens is also the leader in signalling technology, while Bombardier - whose transportation headquarters are in Berlin - is stronger in commuter and light-rail trains.
The Franco-German deal would come just as plans by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron for closer integration may be undermined by Merkel's weak showing in Sunday's national election.
It would also represent a reconciliation of sorts between Siemens and Alstom, which snubbed the German company in 2014 to sell its energy division to General Electric in a deal that also saw Paris take a 20 percent stake in

Alstom, under a temporary agreement with construction group Bouygues.
Siemens Mobility is expected to be merged into Alstom, in which Siemens would hold 50 percent plus one share, while the chief executive would be Alstom's current boss Henri-Poupart Lafarge.
While China snakes its influence in technology across the African continent, one of its smaller neighbors has also been making inroads in countries far from home.
South Korea, one of the Far East's technological powerhouses, claims to have a stronghold in the central African country of Rwanda.
The unlikely story begins with KT Corporation (KT), a South Korean telecoms giant, which started helping to form the backbone to Rwanda's communications infrastructure a decade ago.
The state-owned company currently builds and operates ICT services in Rwanda's public and private markets, and provides a 4G service in partnership with the Rwandan government.
Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba said on Tuesday it invested an additional 5.3 billion yuan, or $807 million, to increase its stake in logistics firm Cainiao Smart Logistics to 51 percent.
Prior to the deal, Alibaba held 47 percent of Cainiao, it said in a press release.
The deal would give Alibaba an additional seat on Cainiao's board, raising its total to four out of seven seats.
The deal is expected to be completed in October.
Alibaba added that it expects to invest 100 billion yuan, or $15.2 billion, over the next five years to boost its global logistics network.
The company said it wants to fulfill orders on the mainland withing 24 hours and within 72 hours globally.
Credit Suisse acted as Alibaba's financial adviser and Morgan Stanley advised Cainiao, the statement said.
Far Eastern Group, one of Taiwan's largest conglomerates, is weighing acquisition deals in China, as prices for assets in overcapacity sectors have become "competitive," the company's chairman said on Tuesday.
But Far Eastern Group Chairman Douglas Hsu said his company wasn't necessarily rushing into deals.
Price wasn't the only issue, Hsu told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on the sidelines of the Forbes Global CEO Conference in Hong Kong.
"The big point you have to really have to consider is if you can withstand the excess capacity and for how long will this excess capacity will continue to be there," Hsu added.
The Chinese government has been implementing supply-side reforms in the industrial sector, but buyers of those assets still need to be able to manage any excess capacity, he said.
While some companies Far Eastern is looking at have to deal with the excess capacity, others need management changes to adapt to a global market, he said, adding that companies broadly need to evolve as technology advances, he said.
With over 200 companies under its fold, Far Eastern Group's total assets are valued at $75.8 billion and run the gamut from cement and textiles to retail.
"North Korea's air defenses are not great," said Ian Williams, associate director of the Missile Defense Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington-based think tank.
"That's actually one area of missile technology where they haven't made huge advances in the past few years."
Analysts told CNBC the North's new KN-06 surface-to-air missile system could provide some protection for the regime and looks like Russia's S-300 air defense system.
That said, not a lot is known about KN-06's radar capabilities.
It has been trotted out at military parades, and Pyongyang's state media declared the anti-aircraft weapon operational in May.
Over the weekend, the U.S. Air Force said B-1B Lancer bombers and F-15C Eagle fighter jets flew in international airspace over waters just east of North Korea.
The U.S. flexing its military muscle follows heated rhetoric recently between North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Un, and Trump, who last week in an address at the United Nations said that the U.S. could "totally destroy North Korea."
The B-1B bombers flew from the U.S. Pacific territory of Guam, where the U.S. has military bases and an estimated 6,000 troops.
Also, the U.S. has around 25,800 troops stationed in South Korea, as well as approximately 50,000 service members in Japan.
"Right now it's still a lot of words, and it's a lot of words by two leaders that tend to bluster a bit," Williams said.
"One of them, particularly Kim Jong Un, if he feels that conflict is inevitable ... then his strategic position is one where he would gain a lot by taking the first move."
Navy Adm. James Stavridis, dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, put chances of a nuclear war with North Korea at 10 percent and the chance of a conventional conflict with the regime at 50/50, according to the Times.
The admiral told the paper a war could potentially start if North Korea fires a missile that strikes on Guam or lands near the U.S. territory.
It could potentially result in the U.S. striking back against North Korea with Tomahawk cruise missiles, as it did on a Syrian government airbase after a chemical attack in April.
And while Syria just took the blow, Kim Jong Un might respond more forcefully to avoid looking weak, including possibly firing artillery at U.S. military posts in South Korea.
Also, the Times said there's a possibility the North Korean dictator could resort to more drastic action, including even smuggling a nuclear weapon aboard a ship to a location where it could cause massive casualties.
He also could use an aircraft to drop the weapon.
"We are closer to a nuclear exchange than we have been at any time in the world's history with the single exception of the Cuban missile crisis,'' Stavridis told the Times.
The paper said a Korean war could start with something such as "a relatively minor incident at the demilitarized zone ... or a provocation that develops into a conventional war and then escalates."
Nonetheless, some believe tension in the past after such incidents didn't produce outright war.
"Things are certainly very tense," said Dean Cheng, a defense expert and senior research fellow at the Heritage Foundation, the Washington-based conservative think tank.
"The North Korea of right now is arguably seen as a real threat in a way that even in 2010 we didn't view it that way."
Experts say a lot of the North's military capabilities are ballistic missile-based weapons.
Besides nuclear weapons, the North also is believed to have a large stockpile of chemical weapons.
According to Williams, the North's ballistic missiles are "use or lose assets" so its leader Kim would have an impetus to go first, which "ultimately raises the risk of conflict and the chance of miscalculation.
It's hard to know what's going on in his mind, but that's my fear."
The recent expansion of the THAAD anti-missile system in South Korea could help reduce the threat of missiles, however, it probably won't help much in the greater Seoul area.
About 25 million people, or half of the country's population, lives in the greater Seoul area.
The exact range of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system is believed to be up to 200 kilometers (124 miles), although THAAD was installed about 227 kilometers (or 135 miles) away in Seongju.
"South Korea has devoted a fair amount of effort to building shelters, conducting civil defense drills and things like that," Heritage's Cheng told CNBC.
He added that there's no reason to assume the North Koreans would not try to hit apartment buildings or other civilian targets.
The CSIS expert said there's also a risk the U.S. could push the North Korean regime leader "too hard and over the brink in terms of paranoia."
The North's propaganda has threatened in recent months to attack the U.S. homeland with nuclear-armed missiles.
The regime also has conducted at least two tests of intercontinental ballistic missiles, including one in July that experts said proved the North is capable of reaching half, if not most, of the continental United States, including major East Coast cities such as New York and Boston.
Even so, the threat to South Korea is especially alarming for Seoul residents since the city is close to the North Korean border.
The North is said to have thousands of underground locations where it stores rockets and other weapons as well as tunnels that could allow it to quickly enter South Korea.
"They've had pretty much since 1953 to burrow and dig and tunnel," said Cheng.
The Heritage expert described how the North Koreans have dug "hardened artillery sites" that are essentially bunkers with armored doors with a slip to stick artillery tubes through.
He said the regime has thousands of these along the Korean DMZ and within range of Seoul.
Nuclear weapons the North could use obviously bring added risks but even without them the loss of life could be significant.
A Pentagon war scenario estimated there would be about 20,000 casualties in South Korea each day in a conventional war, the Times report said, quoting Rob Givens, a retired U.S. Air Force brigadier general who was once stationed on the Korean peninsula.
"Too many people have the view that it would be like the invasion of Iraq or Afghanistan, or like combat operations in Libya or Syria, but it wouldn't be remotely that," Givens told the Times.
"There is only one way that this war ends," he added.
"With North Korea's defeat  but at what cost?"
Williams said the 20,000 deaths per day estimate seems a realistic estimate particularly for "the very beginning of the war, particularly if there wasn't much preparation or warning time."
Added Williams, "The scale of an artillery barrage [from the North] initially would be pretty massive.
You'd be looking at several thousand rockets and artillery pieces being fired over the course of several hours."
Experts add that the use of chemical or biological weapons by the North, though, could produce even heavier losses in South Korea.
By some estimates, the hermit regime has the world's third-largest chemical weapons stockpile  up to 5,000 metric tons of chemical agents.
Logan, the Pentagon official, declined to comment when CNBC asked about estimated casualties on the South Korean side.
The South is seen as particularly vulnerable to a saturation attack, using short-range Scud and other missiles targeting Seoul.
There's also the possibility of an attack using submarine-launched ballistic missiles, with a recent Japanese report indicating the North is close to completing a larger submarine capable of firing multiple missiles.
Read the full article in the Los Angeles Times.
Kroger is now making it a priority to partner with local brands at its supermarket stores across the U.S., right as Amazon-owned Whole Foods prepares to step back similar efforts.
Just last week, Kroger announced plans to roll out a website aimed at luring more local brands to its stores.
Currently, Kroger sources from thousands of local suppliers, but it's looking to grow that number, according to Mike Donnelly, Kroger's executive vice president of merchandising and procurement.
Kroger, which owns other supermarkets including Ralphs and Harris Teeter, is now inviting local vendors to join its team.
Kroger's new website reads: "Kroger Loves Local" and "We Are Local."
Food sampling and in-store education about local brands will continue to be a part of the Kroger shopping experience, a Kroger spokeswoman told CNBC.
The chain also wants to grow the dialogue around shopping and eating local.
Retail rival Whole Foods is meantime looking to follow a different strategy, simplifying operations and cutting back on some local initiatives.
Beginning next year, the organic supermarket chain will reportedly no longer allow brand representatives to promote their products, nor can they check stores to make sure items are stocked and displayed correctly, according to The Wall Street Journal.
It's long been the norm for local brands to set up tables throughout Whole Foods stores during peak selling hours, offering samples and educating shoppers on niche items.
It's served as a way for smaller brand names to market themselves, when they might not be noticed on a shelf at first glance.
"Whole Foods once found a way for local brands to have a great American story come to life ... [they] allowed brands to come into aisles, to tell their stories," Mike McDevitt, CEO of Baltimore-based meal-kit company Terra's Kitchen, told CNBC.
"While it's great to hear that the doors of Kroger are being open [to local brands] now, they're probably going to be cracked open, not wide open," McDevitt said.
Whole Foods, he said, was becoming too difficult to manage from a national, profit-driven perspective.
"All Whole Foods Market stores will continue to sell local products, and our buyers remain committed to discovering and incubating local and innovative brands," Whole Foods spokeswoman Brooke Buchanan told CNBC in a statement.
Whole Foods will also begin to centralize its decision-making regarding brands' product assortment, the Journal reported.
Instead of allowing brands to pitch their products on a local scale, for example, Whole Foods' top executives will choose a higher percentage of the inventory moving forward, the publication said, citing conversations between Whole Foods and third-party brand representatives during a series of recent closed-door meetings.
A Whole Foods spokeswoman had told the Journal that "having brand advocates in stores is distracting to employees and inefficient."
The new system, she told the publication, aims to cut costs and take a "national approach."
Time will tell if Whole Foods shoppers agree  or even notice  Amazon's push to nationalize the chain.
A study by location intelligence company Foursquare found a 25 percent increase in foot traffic at Whole Foods stores over the first two days, Aug. 28 and 29, that the company was owned by Amazon.
Since then, though, traffic has dropped off, Foursquare told CNBC in a follow-up study.
In its second week under Amazon's wings, from Sept. 4 to Sept. 10, traffic was only up about 8 percent when compared with an "average" week in August 2017.
To be sure, Kroger has taken a beating ever since the Amazon-Whole Foods deal was announced in mid-June.
Its stock is down more than 40 percent in 2017 alone.
Yet, Kroger isn't giving up without a fight, recently announcing new initiatives like its plans to open a "comfort food" restaurant, called Kitchen 1883, at a store near its corporate headquarters in Cincinnati.
Kroger is also growing its meal kits business, which it calls Prep+Pared.
The company has been adding the kits to additional Kroger stores this month.
Just last week, grocery chain Albertsons announced it would acquire meal kits business Plated, sending Blue Apron shares higher on speculation that there's hope for that sector after all.
"Kroger is making a wise move strategically in reaching out to local and emerging brands as the number of such brands are growing, and consumers are interested in having access to such brands," Brittain Ladd, a retail strategy, supply chain and logistics consultant, told CNBC.
"Kroger continues to prove they're the best grocery retailer in the United States, and they will continue to fight for their customers and brands," Ladd added.
"Amazon has no choice but to implement strategies that will increase operational efficiencies."
Drugmaker Allergan Plc on Monday authorized a $2 billion buyback of its common stock, sending its shares up after a week of disappointing news on its drug development pipeline.
Allergan shares have fallen by around a fifth in value since late July but were up nearly 4 percent in morning trading on Monday.
The company also said its Chief Financial Officer Tessa Hilado, 53, would retire.
The planned stock buyback follows Allergan's completion of a separate $15 billion repurchase, and after the company reported mixed trial data for its experimental treatment of NASH liver fibrosis.
Allergan on Friday also received a "refusal to file" letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for an expanded approval for its Vraylar drug to treat symptoms associated with schizophrenia in adults.
Allergan said it had begun to search for a new finance chief, but declined to provide further comment on Hilado's departure.
Analysts at Bernstein, based on discussions with Allergan's investor relations team, said Hilado's departure was her personal decision and should not be viewed as suggesting "issues this year or 2018."
Hilado did not have broad support among Allergan investors and her exit would not be a "particularly strong negative," they added.
Hilado joined Allergan in 2014 and will continue in her current role until a successor is named.
Allergan, which said it was committed to boosting its dividend payout annually, also backed its 2017 financial guidance and its commitment to pay down $3.75 billion of debt in 2018.
The drugmaker had $30.24 billion in current and long-term debt and capital leases as of June 30.
"While the CFO's departure may create greater uncertainty, we take the company's reaffirmation of 2017 guidance and third quarter revenue projections as offsetting positives," Wells Fargo analyst David Maris said.
Here's a bright and booming sector within retail.
Off-price retailers  TJ Maxx owner TJX, Ross Stores and Burlington  are expected to see incremental sales growth of $18 billion to $19 billion by 2021, according to JPMorgan.
And that boost will primarily stem from the demise of department store chains, analyst Matthew Boss wrote in a Monday note to clients.
"We expect off-price will be the primary beneficiary of this brick & mortar sales volume up for grabs and benefit from the plethora of close-out merchandise for several years," Boss said.
And when it comes to the growing threat of Amazon, the Street shouldn't be worried about off-price players losing market share, Boss added.
Shares of Ross Stores were climbing more than 3 percent Monday, following JPMorgan's report.
TJX's stock was up more than 1 percent, while shares of Burlington were up close to 2.5 percent on the day.
Burlington has been the biggest gainer of the three of late, having climbed more than 8 percent in 2017.
Here's the argument for off-price retail: Amazon's encroachment into the apparel industry more closely resembles a full-price department store, instead of a Ross or TJ Maxx model, JPMorgan's Boss said.
He cited the internet giant's Prime Wardrobe pricing structure as an example, saying the fashion focus at Amazon instead looks to mirror companies like Macy's and J.C. Penney.
Since 2011, department stores have lost roughly $25 billion in sales on a combined basis, and are on pace to lose another $22 billion in sales over the next five years, should the downward trend continue, JPMorgan found.
Off-price retailers, on the other hand, have gained $14 billion since 2011, the firm said.
JPMorgan has upgraded Ross Stores to overweight, giving the stock a fresh price target of $74 per share, up from $65.
The stock was trading near $63 per share Monday morning.
An important point to also be made is just how difficult the off-price model  offering a treasure-hunt type experience  would be for Amazon to copy online, Boss emphasized in his report.
He cites "high barriers to entry" to tapping into the concept successfully.
"The model is difficult to replicate with over 1,000 buyers worldwide currently sourcing from 18,000 vendors in 100+ countries," he said.
Ross Stores' management team has also stepped up defending its turf.
"If I was Amazon, I don't think I'd be looking at the off-price space as my big opportunity," Ross Stores chief operating officer, Michael O'Sullivan, said at an investor conference earlier this month.
"I think within the world of retail, especially given the economics ...
I don't think off-price is really the place where I'd focus my energy," O'Sullivan added about Amazon.
"Doing a treasure hunt online is much more hit or miss, because you are not actually seeing  or you're seeing it, you're just not experiencing the product in a same way that you would if you were in a store."
Amazon didn't immediately respond to CNBC's request for comment.
At a time when many retailers are shuttering stores to get back to a "healthy" footprint, off-price companies have plans to open more doors in the years ahead.
TJX even recently rolled out an entirely new nameplate, Homesense, in the United States.
JPMorgan has called out Ross' long-term store target of 2,500 locations as being "conservative."
"The growth runway for ROST is well beyond 10 years," he said, adding that  based on meetings with Ross' management team  JPMorgan believes real estate landlords are more willing to partner with Ross today, especially given the "fall-out" in the sporting goods and office space.
Ross Stores, TJX and Burlington are each forecasting same-store sales growth to close out the year  not something many retailers can promise in such a volatile market today.
Berliners voted to keep the historic Tegel airport open even after a new international hub is completed, creating a headache for the German capital's government, which wanted it closed.
Tegel sprang up in just 90 days in 1948 to support the Berlin Airlift, a huge operation to ship supplies and thwart a Cold War Soviet blockade.
It is much-loved by many Berliners and business travellers for its proximity to the city center.
Berlin's government will now have to rethink its plans to close Tegel after some 56 percent of voters supported the non-binding referendum on Sunday, the same day as Germany's federal election, to reconsider the proposal.
This had envisaged the closing of Tegel six months after the Berlin Brandenburg International (BER) airport - a grand project bedeviled by repeated construction and planning problems - finally starts operating.
It still has no fixed opening date.
Michael Mueller, Berlin's mayor said the result created a "very, difficult situation" and told rbb radio he would now talk to the airport's state owners about taking a different approach that could be "legally and financially challenging."
Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi admitted the firm "got things wrong" Monday in a plea to London after the ride-hailing app was stripped of its license to operate in Britain's capital city.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Uber's CEO said in an open letter published in the U.K.'s Evening Standard newspaper Monday.
Khosrowshahi added: "On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
His apology follows a decision by London transport authority Transport for London (TfL) to revoke the taxi start-up of its license to operate in the city last Friday.
The former Expedia CEO, who has served as Uber's CEO for almost a month, said Uber would "work with London to make things right."
TfL's shock decision not to renew Uber's private hire vehicle license dealt a huge blow to the start-up.
Uber said it would appeal the decision, and has reportedly hired a top British lawyer, Thomas de la Mare, to fight its case.
Relations between Iran and the U.S. grew more strained over the weekend after the Middle Eastern country successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers.
The Khorramshahr missile test took place Saturday; Iran state media said it could carry several warheads.
The weapon was first seen during a military parade Friday, during which Iran's President Hassan Rouhani promised to boost his country's missile arsenal.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," Rouhani said Friday in a speech broadcast on state television, according to Reuters.
The country's determination to expand its missile capabilities will remain a main source of friction between Washington and Tehran, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at Verisk Maplecroft.
"As Iran's missile program is beyond the scope of the 2015 nuclear agreement, both sides have seized on the issue to assert their national interests while still operating within the confines of the deal," he told CNBC via email.
"For Rouhani, reasserting Iran's ballistic missile ambitions provides cover against hard-line critics that see the nuclear agreement as a capitulation to world powers."
Following the missile launch Saturday, the U.S. imposed new unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying the test violated a UN resolution, according to Reuters.
On Sunday, President Donald Trump signed a presidential order that kept travel restrictions on Iran, along with seven other countries.
The order blocks nearly all visas from Iran except for students and exchange visitors.
On Saturday, Trump criticized the missile test on social media.
Soltvedt said the missile tests allow Trump to expand sanctions against the country without violating the Iran nuclear deal.
"The net result is that Washington and Tehran are accusing each other of not living up to the spirit of the nuclear agreement," he said.
President Trump has previously criticized the agreement.
During his address to the UN last week, he said the U.S. could not abide by the agreement if it provides cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Soltvedt added that missile tests would strain relations with Iran's Middle East neighbors.
"There is no doubt that Iran is in the ascendancy in the geopolitical battle for influence in the Middle East.
Iran's ongoing efforts to boost its ballistic missile capabilities will only heighten the sense of insecurity among regional rivals," he said.
"While Iran's more assertive regional stance has put it on a collision course first and foremost with Saudi Arabia and the U.S., the pivotal role it plays in the Syrian conflict is also increasingly raising tensions with Israel."
Thousands of Target employees are about to get a raise.
The big-box retailer said Monday it will start raising its minimum wage next month from $10 an hour and will eventually reach $11 for all its U.S. stores.
The pay raise will outpace Wal-Mart's recent increase in its minimum wage.
The two retailers have been engaged in a quiet wage war for years.
Target raised its hourly minimum pay rate in April 2015 to $9, up from the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour at the time.
That move came in response to an announcement by Wal-Mart in February, where Wal-Mart promised to lift its base pay to $10 an hour by 2016.
While Wal-Mart has touted past pay increases, using earnings conference calls to circulate the news, Target has moved more stealthily, only saying earlier this year that it would be investing billions of dollars back into the company.
When asked on a call with media about Target's decision to make Monday's news considerably more public, CEO Brian Cornell said he wants to be "very definitive" and "very declarative" about Target's commitment to, and investment in, its employees.
"Target has always offered market-competitive wages to our team members," Cornell said in a statement.
"With this latest commitment, we'll be providing even more meaningful pay, as well as the tools, training, and support ... that set Target apart."
Target also reiterated its sales and earnings outlook for the third quarter and full year.
That means the increased salary expenses aren't expected to affect the retailer's bottom line, since Target baked the wage hike into its $7 billion investment plan.
"This is our continued focus of investing in the Target team," said Cornell.
Target said the wage increases will begin in October and will apply to the 100,000 temporary workers that the retailer plans to hire ahead of the holidays.
Only two states in the U.S.  Massachusetts and Washington  currently have a minimum wage of $11 per hour.
All others fall below that threshold, but many states already have plans in place to further hike pay in the coming years.
Target also committed to boosting its minimum wage to $15 per hour by 2020.
Target has declined to comment on how many of the roughly 323,000 employees at its more than 1,800 stores will be receiving the pay increases.
The company has emphasized that it wants to "recruit and retain strong team members."
Many retailers, such as Gap, Ikea, Costco and Whole Foods, have been offering competitive minimum wages despite congressional unwillingness to boost the federal minimum wage  a number that hasn't budged since 2009.
Democrats recently introduced a $15 minimum wage bill, backed by Sen. Bernie Sanders, following the Obama administration's second-term proposal to raise the level to $10.10 an hour, which got no traction in Congress.
President Donald Trump has flirted with the idea of raising the federal base pay to $10 an hour.
At a press conference in Florida last year, he told the crowd: "The minimum wage has to go up.
... At least $10, but it has to go up."
For now, states  and individual companies  are left to make their own decisions on whether to raise the bar.
Swiss power grid maker ABB will pay $2.6 billion for General Electric's Industrial Solutions business, it was announced Monday.
Chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told CNBC he is "very confident" that ABB can build the unit back to a strong position.
Spiesshofer said the unit, which has an EBITDA margin of only 6 percent, has strong roots and brand legacy, but the problem is it was a non-core business in GE's portfolio.
"You know what happens to non-core businesses.
They don't get enough oxygen and they don't prosper.
For us, this business is absolutely right in the sweet-spot," he told CNBC's Squawk Box.
"We are very confident that, jointly with the GE Industrial Solutions team, we will shape this business back to a strong position."
GE's Industrial Solutions business makes circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment, which overlaps with ABB's portfolio.
The unit had sales of $2.7 billion in 2016, but its operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization are just 6 percent of sales, compared to ABB's 15 percent operating margin.
Spiesshofer said he had received many calls from customers to congratulate him on the acquisition and saying ABB is the right home for the business.
He also addressed how ABB will boost profit margins at the unit.
"We need to live up to that now and the way we will do it is harmonize the product and technology portfolio.
We have leading edge solutions on the digital side," he said.
"Secondly, we have an overlapping footprint and we will do some restructuring in this context, but we will do this in a responsible way like ABB always does it and we will try to find a home for the very good people at GE in the growing parts of our business."
ABB expects $200 million of annual cost benefits from the acquisition deal and anticipates $400 million of integration costs.
The Zurich-based company's stock price rose 0.42 percent on news of the deal.
Reuters contributed to this report.
British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
It's closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germany's Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
"There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat," said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since it's founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers' rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Hero's market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eat's valuation is 4.66 billion pounds.
Unilever has agreed to buy cosmetics firm Carver Korea for 2.27 billion euros ($2.71 billion) from Goldman Sachs, Bain Capital and the company's founder as it expands its beauty and personal care business.
The Anglo-Dutch company announced the deal on Monday, saying Carver was the fastest-growing skincare business in South Korea, through sales of its A.H.C brand.
Unilever said the range includes "Eye Cream for Face", along with essences, toners, moisturizers, masks, and sun protection.
Bain and Goldman Sachs jointly bought a roughly 60 percent majority stake in Carver for around $500 million last year, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday.
Carver Korea, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs were not available for immediate comment.
This week, Target said it would raise its minimum hourly wage to $11 next month and then to $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
On Tuesday, Ms. Yellen visited Cuyahoga Community College, which runs job-training programs to help workers gain skills and help employers find qualified workers.
Swagelok, an Ohio company that manufactures industrial parts, has started offering guaranteed internships to students who complete an eight-week training program at the college.
Christopher Koszewski, 55, enrolled after 17 years as a truck driver, eager for less dangerous work and higher pay.
You can go on Craigslist every day and see five to seven new want ads for skilled machinists, Mr. Koszewski said.
Its a target-rich environment.
The economic mystery is that inflation has remained low despite the tightening labor market.
The Fed has undershot its goal of 2 percent annual inflation in each of the past five years.
After getting close early this year, inflation has swooned again.
Low inflation is a concern because it keeps nominal interest rates at a relatively low level, Ms. Yellen said, limiting the Feds ability to respond to economic downturns.
Some Fed officials argue that it is also a sign the economy is weaker than it appears.
Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said Monday in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the Fed should wait for stronger inflation before raising interest rates.
Referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy, Mr. Evans said, Inflation has been lower than the F.O.M.C.s 2 percent target for too long, and there is little in the recent data to suggest that inflation will soon rise to target.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has warned that the Fed may be contributing to the problem by failing to convince the public through its actions that it is committed to raising inflation back to 2 percent.
That, however, remains a minority opinion among Fed policy makers.
Ms. Yellen and her closest allies have continued to describe low inflation as an aberration.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Monday in Syracuse  a city at the same latitude as Grand Rapids  that he expected inflation to rise in the coming months, and that he expected the Fed to keep raising interest rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Fed policy makers generally agree that a surplus of workers eases inflation, while a shortage of workers leads to higher inflation.
In her judgment, Ms. Yellen said, this is a Goldilocks moment  the labor market is neither too hot nor too cold.
I view the data we have in hand as suggesting a generally healthy labor market, not one in which substantial slack remains or one that is overheated, Ms. Yellen said.
She said the weakness of inflation in recent years reflected other factors, including idiosyncratic events like a price war among cellphone service providers.
This year, she said, the weakness is harder to explain.
I think my main message about what weve been seeing is that 2017, the shortfall in inflation is a mystery, she said.
Ms. Yellen explored three explanations for the weakness in her remarks.
Some economists argue that the low unemployment rate is a misleading measure of the health of the labor market because it does not account for the recent increase in the share of American adults who are neither working nor looking for work.
Some of those people are returning to work as the economy gains strength.
The high cost of child care kept Jessica Dicus out of the work force for the past 10 years, but she recently enrolled in the same training program as Mr. Koszewski.
She is paying $4,200; when she completes the program, she will make $15 an hour.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I never planned on being out of the labor force for so long, said Ms. Dicus, 37, who served in the Army before starting a family.
Now its time for me to get on with my life.
The Fed under Ms. Yellen has prolonged its stimulus program, but she said she saw clear evidence the labor market was strengthening.
For example, the percentage of firms planning wage increases has returned to its pre-recession level, she said.
Ms. Yellen gave more credence to the theory espoused by Mr. Evans: the possibility that Americans are losing confidence the Fed will return inflation to 2 percent, and that those diminished expectations in turn are reducing the pace of inflation.
Finally, she said that changes in the structure of the economy, such as slower growth in health care costs, might be suppressing inflation even as the labor market tightened.
These significant uncertainties about the likely pace of inflation weighed in favor of caution in raising rates, she said.
Moving too quickly risks overadjusting policy to head off projected developments that may not come to pass, she said.
The Feds concern about low inflation strikes some critics as misplaced.
I cant work up any enthusiasm for that issue, said Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at Harvard.
I cant see why anybody other than a professional economist or a journalist who covers these issues should care about whether inflation is 1.6 percent or 2 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said he shared in the general puzzlement that inflation was not rising more quickly, but he said the Feds sole concern was to keep it that way.
I was there when the inflation rate was 10 percent in the late 1970s, he said.
If somebody told me we would have zero inflation, I would say thats O.K.
It is a significant moment for the 11-year-old Twitter, which has been trying to figure out how to change the social media service without alienating the people who have embraced its short format.
The idea of extending the length of Twitter posts has been contentious internally, batted around among product groups that are trying to find ways to persuade people to use the service more frequently.
At 328 million users, Twitter has been criticized for its inability to attract more people.
Investors have grown nervous, as that slowing of user growth has affected the companys revenue.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Last year, Twitter tried extending its character count by allowing people to post photos and GIFs without counting them against the overall character limit.
It also toyed with longer posts exceeding 140 characters, until criticism from users prompted Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, to proclaim that the limit was here to stay.
Twitter is now preparing for a backlash from those who might take issue with a 280-character tweet.
We understand since many of you have been tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters, the company said.
But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint.
The negative reaction was swift, however.
Some on Twitter proclaimed it a terrible idea.
Still, Twitter pointed to people who post primarily in Japanese, Chinese and Korean, languages with alphabets that allow the expression of more thoughts in fewer characters.
Those users tend to bump up against the character limits less often, which Twitter said leads to more frequent messages.
As a result, Twitter said, if rules around characters are loosened, English-speaking users  who tend to use more characters in tweets  will also hit character limits less frequently.
That may, in turn, lead English-speaking users to post more regularly.
The test will begin in small groups around the world.
The company has not said whether it will roll the change out to all users in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twitter said the people who will get to test the 280-character tweets will be randomly selected.
Whether that may include prominent Twitter users like President Trump is unclear.
Mr. Trump has often used Twitter to announce policy decisions, which has sometimes led to heat on the service.
This week, there was a renewed call to bar Mr. Trump from using Twitter after Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, said recent inflammatory tweets from Mr. Trump should be considered a declaration of war.
On Monday, Twitter issued a statement from its policy team saying that it took a number of factors into account when dealing with violations of the companys user agreement, including the newsworthiness of the tweet.
In the end, Tweets get right to the point with the information or thoughts that matter, the company said of the 280-character tweet test.
That is something we will never change.
The shake-up is the culmination of weeks of mounting public and legal pressure on the Atlanta-based data clearinghouse from citizens, politicians and investors.
The companys lackluster response to the breach has prompted consumer outrage, while lawmakers have begun pushing for tougher oversight of the industry.
Although Mr. Smith retired, the board took an unusual step that reflected the damage from the breach.
The board said it could retroactively classify Mr. Smith as having been fired for cause.
If that were to happen, Mr. Smith would probably be required to forgo or repay certain compensation.
Mr. Smith will be replaced on an interim basis by the companys head of its Asia-Pacific region, Paulino do Rego Barros Jr. One of Equifaxs outside board members, Mark Feidler, will succeed Mr. Smith as nonexecutive chairman.
The company is now conducting a search for a permanent chief executive that includes internal and external candidates.
Speaking for everyone on the board, I sincerely apologize, said Mr. Feidler, an Atlanta-based private equity executive.
But management changes alone are unlikely to quell the complaints of critics.
Multiple congressional committees are planning hearings into the breach and Equifaxs response to it.
More than 30 state law-enforcement authorities have opened inquiries, as has the F.B.I.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Tuesday that it is not real accountability if the guy promoted to chairman is an Equifax board member who served on the committee that was responsible for overseeing data security.
The Equifax breach, which exposed the personal information of up to 143 million Americans, has cast a harsh spotlight on the companys governance.
Its board of directors largely consists of low-profile retired corporate executives.
Half of the 10 outside board members are past or present fixtures of the Atlanta business community.
Mr. Smith, 57, took over as chief executive in 2005, after a 22-year career at General Electric in which he worked in the conglomerates asset-management, insurance and leasing divisions.
At Equifax, he presided over a period of rapidly growing sales, driven by expanding troves of sensitive personal data.
Profits rose, and the stock price followed.
When the crisis hit, the company stumbled.
Its website repeatedly crashed as millions of desperate individuals tried to find out whether their information was part of the breach.
People who were potentially affected were unable to sign up for protection the company was offering or, even if they had been successful, could not get the service activated.
Equifax also charged many people to freeze their credit files before reversing course in the wake of fierce criticism.
In an early bid to contain the crisis, Equifax said on Sept. 14 that two top executives, its chief information officer and chief security officer, were stepping down.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the storm was intensifying  and the board decided it needed to take more drastic action.
Before the attack, the company would most likely have turned to its top executive ranks.
One obvious candidate, Joseph M. Loughran III, runs Equifaxs core credit reporting division and previously served as its chief marketing officer.
By the time Equifaxs board meeting began last Wednesday evening, it was clear that Mr. Loughran and others were no longer in the running.
Three executives, including Mr. Loughran, had sold $1.8 million worth of shares in the days after the hack was discovered.
The company says the executives who sold shares had not been aware of the breach at the time of the sales.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With a limited pool of candidates, the board turned to Mr. Barros, who joined Equifax in 2010 and was most recently based in Sydney, Australia.
Before that, he had a long career working at telecommunications companies including BellSouth and AT&T.
He is an experienced leader with deep knowledge of our company and the industry, said Ines Gutzmer, an Equifax spokeswoman.
The board of directors has absolute confidence in his ability to guide the company through this transition.
Mr. Feidler, the new chairman, comes from a similar background as Mr. Barros.
A longtime telecom executive and banker, Mr. Feidler was president and chief operating officer at BellSouth until its 2006 merger with AT&T.
The following year, he co-founded the Atlanta private-equity firm MSouth Equity Partners.
Equifaxs board has created a special committee to review the data breach.
As part of his departure agreement, Mr. Smith agreed that Equifax can decide at a later date on the specific terms of his departure, based on the findings of the special committee.
Mr. Smith has been very cooperative and supportive of this approach, said Wyatt Jefferies, an Equifax spokesman.
Mr. Smith will retain about $18.4 million in pension benefits, according to a regulatory filing.
He also holds around $20.8 million in stock awards, according to Equilar, which tracks executive compensation.
Those shares would be forfeited if his termination is decided to have been for cause.
Mr. Smith owns Equifax shares worth $23.6 million.
He received bonuses of roughly $3 million in 2015 and 2016, but agreed to waive any bonus for this year after the hack.
Mr. Smith had been scheduled to appear at two congressional hearings next week, but his departure raised questions about whether he could choose not to testify.
A C.E.O.
walking out the door just days before he is to appear before Congress is an abdication of his responsibility, said Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Jefferies, the Equifax spokesman, indicated that Mr. Smith would still cooperate.
If Congress asks him, he will go, Mr. Jefferies said.
Apple alone is sitting on an overseas stash of almost $260 billion, according to Bloomberg, while Microsoft has more than $120 billion parked abroad.
The pharmaceutical giant Pfizer does not regularly disclose how much of its offshore profits are stored in foreign tax havens, but the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates that at the end of 2016, it held almost $200 billion abroad.
Photo

Of course, the standard claims are being made about the vast stimulative effects of the repatriated cash.
They are being met this time with vigorous counterclaims based on the results of the Bush administrations shot over a decade ago.
Back then, companies found their way around regulations forbidding this use of the money to simply benefit shareholders and corporate chiefs.
A Senate commission reported that the top 15 repatriating corporations reduced their overall United States work force by 20,931 jobs, even as share buybacks increased and the annual compensation for their top five executives jumped 27 percent from 2004 to 2005 and another 30 percent the next year.
Pfizer, for instance, brought back $35.5 billion, the largest amount repatriated by a single company during the tax holiday, according to the Senate report.
Then it turned around and spent over $20 billion in stock repurchases from 2005 to 2007.
By 2007, the aggregate compensation of its top five executives was nearly $13 million higher than in 2004.
Its United States payroll was 12,000 smaller.
The pattern was similar across most repatriating companies.
Hewlett-Packard, which brought home $14.5 billion, bought back $22 billion worth of stock over the three years and cut its payroll by more than 8,500.
The tobacco company Altria, which brought over $6 billion home during the holiday, spent $2.5 billion on share buybacks and bumped pay in the executive ranks by more than $50 million, but cut 6,000 jobs.
A few years back, Ms. Forbes explained to my colleague Floyd Norris how the computer manufacturer Dell had lobbied hard for the holiday  claiming that part of the money would be used to build a plant in Winston-Salem, N.C.
They did bring back $4 billion, and spent $100 million on the plant, which they admitted would have been built anyway, she said.
About two months after that, they used $2 billion for a share buyback.
Profits Held Outside the U.S.
The 10 companies with the most profit held outside the United States last year, in billions.
Apple Pfizer Microsoft G.E.
IBM Johnson & Johnson Cisco Merck Google Exxon Mobil $230.2 197.1 124.0 82.0 71.4 66.2 65.6 63.1 60.7 54.0

With a new move afoot to put such holdings back on American books, there is a critical question that is too quickly glossed over: Why do businesses act this way?
Why didnt corporate executives invest more in their businesses and their work forces?
Why did they go to the trouble of dribbling around a rule forbidding the use of repatriated profits to pay themselves a bonus?
(Note to Congress: Money is fungible.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Call me nave.
Professor Forbes and her colleagues  indeed, many economists  might swat the question away by arguing that businesses didnt use the extra cash to invest and employ because they were well-run businesses, well invested and sufficiently staffed to maximize their profitability.
There is truth to this argument.
In fact, most corporate investment today comes not from retained earnings but from borrowing.
Bringing a foreign profit stash home has little effect on investment incentives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the question should resonate in an administration that came to power on a promise to address the plight of the working class.
Because the working class stands on the other end of a deal with the corporate class.
I dont think it is possible to fully address workers demands without understanding, and changing, corporate motivations.
Many forces have shaped this deal, including technology, which replaced workers performing routine tasks, and globalization, which squeezed the margins of many businesses and exposed their workers to competition from cheap labor markets.
And yet it would be a mistake to ignore the impact of a corporate ethos that has come to focus on rewarding shareholders and executives at the expense of any other consideration  be it workers welfare or even the companys long-term sustainability.
Indeed, workers today amount to little more than a line on the cost side of businesses balance sheets, with little claim to its prosperity.
Corporate profits have risen over the last quarter-century, as a share of the nations income, even as the workers share has shrunk.
While executive pay has soared  padded with stock options and shares  the earnings of ordinary workers are below where they were in the 1970s.
Whats more, the pensions that ensured workers a retirement perch in the middle class have been replaced by 401(k) savings accounts  which are cheaper for companies but put workers retirement prospects at the mercy of the stock market.
How you divide the pie is a choice, said Rick Wartzman, who heads the KH Moon Center for a Functioning Society at the Drucker Institute of Claremont Graduate University.
It is being carved differently.
The change has happened across the board.
In his book The End of Loyalty, published in May by Public Affairs, Mr. Wartzman lays out a shift in corporate culture both in success stories like Coca-Cola and General Electric and in less successful ones, like Eastman Kodak and General Motors.
For workers, the story was the same, whether they were working at a winner or a losing firm, he said.
The good news is that it is not impossible to modify the behavior of the corporate leaders who have so drastically altered the contract with their work force over the last few decades.
While it may be tempting to cast the new breed of executives as selfish villains who somehow lost their sense of right and wrong, the shift in their behavior responded to a shift in the incentives they faced.
It was fed by a belief that snaked its way three or four decades ago from the halls of the University of Chicago through investment-bank trading floors and into the corner offices of corporate America: that the interests of corporate managers must be brought into tight alignment with those of shareholders.
It was accompanied by one of the most destabilizing propositions in the modern history of corporate governance: This alignment was best achieved by paying corporate managers almost exclusively with stock.
Mihir A. Desai of Harvard Business School argues that this strategy amounted to outsourcing corporate compensation decisions to the capital markets  which have no way of telling whether the rise or fall in shares is caused by executives strategies or simply luck.
This produced an enormous bubble in chief executive pay  which rose in tandem with the stock.
It also made chief executives jobs more uncertain, vulnerable to market downturns.
And it vastly distorted their behavior, putting every decision at the service of the share price at the close of the quarter.
Professor Desai points out that in the end, this structure does not really serve shareholders, at least not those with an interest in a companys prosperity more than a few quarters down the road.
Capitalism seems to be serving managers and investment managers at the expense of shareholders, he wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing this behavior is not beyond the reach of policy.
Just as changes in the tax treatment of executive pay in the 1990s encouraged stock-based remuneration, tax reforms might motivate corporate executives to invest for the long term rather than for an immediate stock bump  maybe even encourage stable employment and worker training.
Until then, offering tax breaks to American corporations seems more likely to line the pockets of executives and shareholders than to improve their long-term prospects or the prosperity of their workers.
Once you start politicizing some of these more technocratic disputes, it can escalate rapidly, he said.
Boeings complaint alleges that substantial support from the Canadian government has allowed Bombardier to sell its CSeries aircraft at absurdly low prices in the United States, undercutting a valuable market for Boeing.
Photo

Bombardier has argued that Boeing is also a recipient of substantial government funding and that pricing new models more cheaply is a standard industry practice.
In a statement last week, Bombardier called Boeings complaints pure hypocrisy.
Boeing is the largest beneficiary of the United States Export-Import Bank, which subsidizes American companies that send goods abroad.
It has sparred at the World Trade Organization for over a decade with European rival Airbus over allegations that its subsidies violate the groups rules.
The perception in Canada is that Boeing is using U.S. trade law as a commercial weapon, and that its pretty hypocritical coming from a company that receives billions and billions of U.S. taxpayer subsidies, said Roland Paris, a professor of international affairs at the University of Ottawa.
The White House declined to comment on Boeings case.
The dispute has unfolded against a backdrop of rising trade tensions between the United States and its closest allies, especially Canada.
While Mr. Trump focused on Mexicos trade practices during the presidential campaign, America has sparred with Canadian officials more often since his inauguration.
The president has already traded barbs with Mr. Trudeau, criticizing Canada over what American farmers and companies have called illegal subsidies of dairy and lumber exports to the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week, officials from Canada, Mexico and the United States are meeting in Ottawa to hammer out some controversial elements of the North American Free Trade Agreement, including disputes between America and its neighbor to the north.
In fact, some of the most intractable areas in the ongoing negotiations over Nafta are with Canada  like the United States effort to get rid of a particular type of trade panel that has often ruled in favor of the Canadian lumber industry.
Mr. Trumps public bullying of corporations, individuals and others with whom he disagrees is prompting some foreign counterparts to dispense with the diplomatic niceties that have governed international relations for decades.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a joint news conference with Mrs. May on Sept. 18, Mr. Trudeau threatened to abandon a planned purchase of military aircraft from Boeing unless the case against Bombardier was dropped.
We have obviously been looking at the Super Hornet aircraft from Boeing as a potential significant procurement of our new fighter jets, the Canadian prime minister said.
But we wont do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business.
Mrs. May also raised the issue with Mr. Trump in a phone call on Sept. 5, and again on the sidelines of the United National General Assembly on Wednesday, according to the British Embassy.
Analysts say Mrs. Mays governing coalition in the United Kingdom hinges on the cooperation of representatives from Northern Ireland, where the wings for Bombardiers CSeries aircraft are manufactured.
The Commerce Departments ruling will be the first in a series of decisions about what, if any, level of duties to impose on Bombardier planes coming across the border.
The International Trade Commission, an American government agency that reviews unfair trade practices, could ultimately uphold or eliminate the Commerce Department duties in a final ruling early next year.
Bombardier or the Canadian government could also eventually challenge a ruling against Bombardier in a number of venues, including at the World Trade Organization.
But, in the meantime, customs officials would start collecting duties on any planes that cross the border, most likely chilling Bombardier sales and potentially prompting retaliation against Boeing.
While Boeing argues that the Bombardier plane competes directly with Boeings American-made 737-700 and 737 MAX 7 planes, Bombardier says Boeing no longer makes aircraft as small as the CSeries.
Delta Air Lines, which ordered 75 of Bombardiers smaller CSeries planes last year, said Boeing offered no viable alternative.
Boeing simply was not in the mix, Greg May, a senior vice president at Delta, told the International Trade Commission.
They did not have a plane that satisfied our mission profile and needs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foreign leaders have asked Mr. Trump to intervene in this process.
But beyond persuading Boeing to withdraw its complaint, it is questionable how much influence Mr. Trump could have over a fairly bureaucratic process, Mr. Tucker said.
Unlike a recent ruling on solar tariffs, the case does not officially go to the president for a decision.
The AMC deal, which brings total investment in Dreamscape to more than $40 million, calls for up to six Dreamscape locations to open over the next 18 months.
Some will be inside existing AMC theaters, and some will be stand-alone centers nearby.
Additionally, Dreamscape will open a flagship location in the first quarter of next year at the Westfield Century City mall in Los Angeles.
Westfield is another Dreamscape investor.
Photo

In many cases, we have surplus space, and we think Dreamscape will add energy and excitement to our theaters, especially during the week, Mr. Aron said.
But this isnt a replacement for movies.
Its a complement.
Tickets are expected to cost from $15 to $20.
Dreamscape joins a cluster of companies that are trying to take advantage of the still-untapped consumer promise of virtual-reality technology, the desperate need by shopping malls to reinvent themselves in the online retail age and the pressure on movie studios (and theater companies) to find new avenues of growth.
The Void, a Utah start-up, recently announced a partnership with the Walt Disney Company to open Star Wars-themed virtual-reality experiences at Disney malls outside theme parks in California and Florida.
Already operating are two Imax V.R.
Centres in Los Angeles and New York; tickets start at $7, and the Los Angeles location has attracted 50,000 people over the last nine months.
Imax said it planned to expand the concept to Canada, Britain and Shanghai this fall.
The Hollywood players behind Dreamscape give it immediate cachet.
Joining Mr. Spielberg are people like Hans Zimmer, the movie music composer, and the director Gore Verbinski.
But their involvement does not guarantee success.
Mr. Spielberg, for one, has been down this road before, with mixed results.
In the late 1990s, his DreamWorks SKG invested alongside Universal Pictures in a heavily promoted venture called GameWorks, which was supposed to use new technology to revolutionize the arcade business.
GameWorks never lived up to its billing.
Around the same time, Disney encountered similar disappointment with DisneyQuest, which was envisioned as a worldwide chain offering virtual-reality experiences.
Only two were built.
Two members of the Dreamscape management team, Walter Parkes, a co-chairman, and Bruce Vaughn, the chief executive, are very familiar with those efforts.
Mr. Parkes, a movie producer whose credits include the Men in Black series, worked for Mr. Spielberg as a senior DreamWorks executive at the time.
Mr. Vaughn spent 23 years at Disney, most recently serving as chief creative officer of its Imagineering research and design unit.
Photo

Even big-name brands can have a hard time getting people to go here instead of there, Mr. Vaughn acknowledged.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Vaughn was sitting in the Dreamscape warehouse last week with Mr. Parkes and Kevin Wall, an Emmy-winning producer of world-spanning music events like Live 8 and another Dreamscape co-chairman.
The men, together with Aaron Grosky, the chief operating officer, said Dreamscapes fate would be different, partly because virtual-reality technology has advanced so significantly.
This is truly the birth of a new storytelling medium, Mr. Parkes said.
As if to prove it, Mr. Parkes took a reporter through a prototype Dreamscape experience.
The company uses more than a dozen cameras and sensors to transport people into various settings  home plate in a sold-out baseball stadium, the spider-filled ruins of an ancient temple or a futuristic, neon-lit city flooded with water.
You put on V.R.
goggles and a pair of gloves.
An attendant clips a small device to your shoes.
And off you go.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Inside Dreamscape experiences, which will last about nine minutes and cost about $1.5 million to $2 million to produce, participants can handle objects and  as avatars  even pass them between one another.
A shared experience is what makes the lasting emotional impact, said Mr. Vaughn, noting his track record in creating Disney theme park attractions.
Dreamscape is developing original content.
Mr. Parkes said the company was also negotiating with various studios and filmmakers to create experiences that put people inside movie franchises.
If you enjoy our experience, youll be more likely to see the movie, and vice versa, he said.
For an agency that prizes prompt disclosure of accurate information and has pursued enforcement cases for companies that fail to disclose or update information for investors, it appears that the S.E.C.
could use a dose of its own medicine.
But the hacking is more than a simple stumble for the S.E.C.
It has provided a road map for what compromised companies can say in the future  using the S.E.C.s own words  and raised the question of how the commission would secure hugely valuable information if it succeeds in its goal of collecting even more of it.
In announcing the breach last week, Mr. Clayton noted that even the most diligent cybersecurity efforts will not address all cyberrisks that enterprises face.
Those words are certain to be cited back to the S.E.C.
by any company  especially Equifax  when questions are raised about the systems it uses to prevent digital attacks and make a timely disclosure to the public when they do occur.
The Edgar system has been misused before, including a 2015 scheme to manipulate the shares of Avon by filing a fake tender offer for the company that temporarily drove up the value of its shares.
That is akin to a spam email or another type of spoof that has a modest impact on the market and does not raise questions about the probity of the financial system.
The more ominous message about the breach is that only recently has it come to light that the information may have been used to generate trading profit.
Much of what is in the Edgar system is made available to the public, but any preview before the release of information can be turned into enormous profit now that trading strategies can be executed in milliseconds.
Although Mr. Clayton claimed that the hacking did not result in systemic risk, the misuse of confidential information  especially when noticing it may have taken months  threatens the integrity of the financial markets.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The use of stolen information from the Edgar system has been likened to insider trading, but there is a crucial difference when hacking is involved.
Insider trading requires showing a violation of a fiduciary duty in misusing the information for personal gain, but hackers are thieves who are bound by no such fiduciary duty.
It is no surprise that the hackers are at risk of penalties  in 2015, the Justice Department and the S.E.C.
charged a group of Ukrainian hackers with fraud over trading on market-moving information before it was released to the public, generating profit of more than $100 million.
A 2009 decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan in S.E.C.
v. Dorozhko allowed civil securities fraud charges to proceed against a hacker who gained access to a companys earnings report to trade on it before its release.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But what of those who might have acquired that information from them?
For a start, they are not at risk of insider trading charges.
And criminal charges could hinge on proving that they knew the information had been acquired illegally.
The insider trading laws do not apply because someone who acquired the information would not be what is known as a tippee under the fiduciary duty analysis.
But prosecution is possible under a federal statute, 18 U.S.C.
641, that makes it a crime to receive any record, voucher, money, or thing of value knowing it has been stolen and using it for personal gain.
That provision has been interpreted by the federal appeals courts to cover intangible property, so anyone buying confidential information from the Edgar database could come within this prohibition.
Proving knowledge when someone buys stolen property can be a challenge because one can always profess ignorance, but prosecutors have had success in showing that a buyer was deliberately ignorant of how information had been acquired.
Keeping your head in the sand does not mean you lacked the requisite intent.
For the S.E.C., the hacking makes protecting private information even more important as it embarks on creating a new database known as the Consolidated Audit Trail that will host a trove of information about every order in the securities and options markets, including the identity of each account holder.
The goal is to open a window for the agency into whether there is any manipulation of the markets or to provide a means to determine the cause of trading disruptions, such as the flash crash in 2010, when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 600 points in a matter of minutes.
The C.A.T.
will have enormous potential value  far beyond what is in the Edgar database  by potentially giving clues about the trading strategies of large investors, such as mutual funds and pensions, that buy and sell millions of shares daily.
Imagine how much a peek at that information would be worth to traders looking to get out ahead of large transactions to profit from the small changes in stock prices when they hit the market.
The temptation to hack the database will be powerful, which means protecting it will be one of the S.E.C.s highest priorities.
Can the agency be trusted with that much valuable information?
The industry has resisted the creation of the C.A.T., and the hacking at the S.E.C.
will be an additional argument for those seeking to derail the program.
If Mr. Clayton is right that cyberattacks are going to happen even with the best defenses in place, then the small software flaws that hackers exploited at the S.E.C.
and Equifax add fuel to the fire of doubt about how secure anyones information can be.
NEW YORK  The S&P 500 ended flat on Tuesday and the Nasdaq posted modest gains as technology shares bounced from sharp losses in the prior session and comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen boosted expectations of a December rate hike.
Yellen said the Fed needs to continue gradual rate hikes and it would be imprudent to leave rates on hold until inflation reached the Fed's 2-percent target.
Earlier in the session, Atlanta Fed Chief Raphael Bostic, a non-voting member this year, said he would want "clear evidence" that prices were firming before committing to another rate increase, but did not rule out another hike in 2017.
Chances of a rate hike in December rose to 78 percent from about 40 percent a month ago, according to CME Group's FedWatch tool.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

"Investors should be looking out for a December hike given we dont know what happens to the Fed chair position next year.
(Yellen), probably wants to be able to, knowing anyone new in that role might not feel comfortable tightening the first month," said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at BMO Private Bank in Chicago.
The first neighbors he met were Glenda and Van Keck, organic farmers who have lived on Dusty Drive since 1974.
They were worried about the cannabis growing right from the get go, Mr. Wagner said.
And I came over in hopes of quelling their concerns, to introduce myself, and to show them my plans.
At the time, he wanted to cultivate half an acre of organically grown marijuana, or about 1,000 pounds per year.
He told the Kecks he would process in the barn using ice and water, a nonchemical method.
Mr. Keck grumbled about his property values, Mr. Wagner said.
Glenda Keck was largely silent.
She became very uncomfortable pretty quickly, and she left to go to Costco.
The Kecks did not return phone calls seeking comment.
Parvathy Mahesh said she and her husband, Harihara, were told an older couple was moving in, not a pot farmer.
She worried about trucks rumbling past her front yard, close to Mr. Wagners gate.
And the road was too steep to sustain commercial traffic, she said.
If it was on a private road, that would be one thing, Ms. Mahesh said.
But this road is shared by all the residents.
In early March, the Maheshes called the Kecks.
Then they went to talk to Mr. Momtazi at his tasting room.
I said, I dont know anything about this, Mr. Momtazi said.
He recalled that he and Mr. Wagner talked weeks earlier.
His new neighbor mostly complimented him on his biodynamic farming practices, he said, and failed to mention marijuana.
Mr. Wagner said he was hesitant to mention his farm, but did address the topic.
The visit from the Maheshes sent Mr. Momtazi reeling.
He wasnt opposed to marijuana use, but a processing operation was something altogether different.
His daughter, Hanna, who oversees events, scoured the internet and found Mr. Wagners Instagram account.
On Jan. 14, he posted a photograph of the barn, a wall of storm clouds on the horizon.
The future sight of greenhouses, and processing facility, Mr. Wagner wrote.
Watch for the build out coming soon!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twelve days later, he posted another photograph, this time a selfie, his scruffy brown hair tucked under a baseball cap.
When Im out on my land, my eyes stay glowing, and I still pinch myself occasionally just to make sure this is real!
he wrote.
The posts stretched back to October 2016, about the same time the previous owners were negotiating with the neighbors to make it possible for the Wagners to buy the land.
He was planning this all along, Hanna Momtazi said.
Mr. Momtazi and the Maheshes researched the marijuana industry.
The more they learned, the more nervous they became.
State regulations required the Wagners to install cameras near gates and fences, along with motion sensors and alarms.
There was the problem of the shared steep road.
And, despite telling the Kecks he would not use chemicals, Mr. Wagner, in his initial business application, stated he wanted to use solvents, which are highly flammable.
This gave his neighbors pause.
Many explosions at illicit butane hash oil labs, for example, have been reported in Oregon, leading to fire and death.
When asked about it, Mr. Wagner said he did not intend to mislead his neighbors.
But by then, the relationships had soured.
An attempt at dtente failed.
Mr. Wagner said he got into a shouting match with Mr. Momtazi over the phone.
We had very little trust, Ms. Mahesh said.
So, when the county commissioners agreed to hold a hearing in April regarding Mr. Wagners processing facility, the neighbors showed up in force.
Furious Messages

Photo

At 10:49 a.m. on April 13, Mr. Wagner and a dozen of his neighbors and their supporters met face to face in Room 32 in the county courthouse in downtown McMinnville.
Mr. Wagner spoke first, outlining his organic farming and processing practices and why he believed he would have no negative impact on the environment.
A pile of grievances followed.
Mr. Momtazi warned that the marijuana operation would produce foul-smelling particles that could change the flavor of his grapes.
He worried, too, that the reservoir he built might get contaminated if Mr. Wagner used pesticides or solvents.
The Maheshes complained about the condition of the road and a lack of privacy once Mr. Wagners cameras went up.
And the Kecks said the value of their land would plummet next door to a pot farm.
Ms. Keck even mentioned that the smell of marijuana set off her migraines.
After an hour and a half, Mr. Wagner and his opponents were spent.
I thought I was going to blackout, I was so mad, he said.
He ended the hearing, telling the commissioners that Yamhill County farmers were once afraid of wineries.
But now they were the lifeblood of the Willamette Valley.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Three days after the hearing, the Maneshes and Mr. Momtazi petitioned a judge for a temporary restraining order against Mr. Wagner.
The petition was denied.
On April 19, The Oregonian published an article about the feud.
More than 500 people posted comments online, most in support of Mr. Wagner.
Within days, Mr. Momtazi started getting threatening phone calls.
We are going to burn the building, he recalled one person saying on his answering machine.
They said that?
asked his wife, Flora, who was visiting the winery.
Yeah, we didnt tell you that, he said.
It was really scary.
They said, We are going to kill you.
We are going to burn the building.
And that is when we called the sheriff and we found out one of the calves was mysteriously dead.
The tail of one of the cows was cut in half.
His wife stared, dumbfounded.
She kept telling us, Mr. Momtazi said of his wife, You need to be careful.
Hanna, Mr. Momtazis daughter, retrieved her cellphone.
Ganga rules, man!
one caller shouted.
Another left his phone number.
She played the recording.
Whats wrong with you, the man said, his message peppered with foul language.
Try to live peaceably among your neighbors.
The man was Richard Colvin, 53, a Portland resident who said in an interview he heard about the story from local news.
When asked, though, he could not recall what the dispute was about.
He blamed the media.
The way it sounded to us it was a bunch of people whining about a marijuana grower, he said.
Maybe I was feeling bad, but Im tired of the whole marijuana nonsense.
He later apologized to the Momtazis.
But by then, Mr. Momtazi had had enough.
He filed an incident report with the sheriffs office and told them about the threatening calls.
He installed cameras around the vineyard.
And Hanna stayed overnight in case an arsonist showed up.
Indeed every time the tussle made headlines, like when BuzzFeed wrote about it in August, the winery was subjected to another wave of threats.
As a result, Mr. Momtazi became even more suspicious of the marijuana community.
It is a scare tactic they use, Mr. Momtazi said of the calls.
That made me more firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Island of Love

Photo

Rick Olson, the former mayor of McMinnville and one of Yamhill Countys three commissioners at the Wagner hearing, met me at the Red Fox Bakery downtown for a cup of coffee.
McMinnville has a quirky vibe, a cultural stew of aging hippies, hipsters with man buns and young professionals who enjoy the relaxed Oregon vibe.
Each May the town celebrates its U.F.O.
Festival, a weekend extravaganza with parades and costume contests.
We always say there is the Yamhill County and there is the rest of Oregon, Mr. Olson said.
In June, the commissioners voted to uphold the appeal in favor of Mr. Momtazi and the other neighbors.
Mr. Olson said he was concerned about how much water Mr. Wagners processing facility might use, as well as the safety of the road shared with neighbors.
We upheld the appeal based on these issues, Mr. Olson said.
It had nothing to do with whether we like marijuana or not.
Mr. Wagner is not out of the business altogether; he can still apply for a permit to grow marijuana commercially.
The lawsuit filed against Mr. Wagner by his neighbors is pending.
Mr. Wagner said the odds of being able to process at his farm are slim to none.
Instead he would like to join a farm collective or find an investor to fund his operation.
No one ever really met me, he said in an interview last week.
Its like they act like I should go someplace else.
Mr. Momtazi sent an email last week with one of Mr. Wagners deleted Instagram posts that showed the barn against a brilliant sky at sunset.
Right now I am an island of love with an ocean of fear around me, Mr. Wagner had written.
Then, he added, #xenophobia is #venom to the #haters and those they believe they #hate #manifestdestiny #cannabiscommunity.
Mr. Momtazi surmised that Mr. Wagner hasnt exactly embraced them, either.
Posts like that split their farm community, he wrote, causing more hatred toward us.
Select number of bedrooms Any Beds Studio 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more

Select number of bedrooms Any Baths 1 1 or more 2 2 or more 3 3 or more 4 4 or more 5 5 or more
Two words: body language.
Ms. de Cadenet said she learned how to read body language as a means of survival as a 15-year-old when she was in a juvenile detention center.
You can sense whether someone is retreating from you: They look away, they cross their arms, theyll shift their focus, they will turn their body away, she said.
Also, pay attention to their eyes.
When I was interviewing Hillary Clinton, I knew when Id ask her something that she wasnt going to give me the complete truth because she would break eye contact with me.
Photo

How to have a hard conversation

Call out the elephant in the room.
In Ms. de Cadenets book, she outlines a conversation she had with a friend who confessed to her that she was sleeping with a married man.
To have a difficult talk, Ms. de Cadenet starts by acknowledging the awkwardness.
Just say, This is really uncomfortable for both of us.
This is not a conversation I want to have.
And I know you dont.
But I think we have to talk about this, she said.
How to create that safe space

Be trustworthy.
You have to be someone that when your friends tell you something, they dont hear it back from other people.
Also, be willing to share your own feelings.
Ive been privileged to be able to be a part of some of my girlfriends lives at their breaking points, said Ms. de Cadenet, who was friends with Gwyneth Paltrow when she uncoupled from Chris Martin, as well as with Amber Heard when she accused Johnny Depp of domestic violence.
And they will be in the trenches with you at some point.
Over time, that creates safety.
How do you know how much to share about yourself?
Consider the impact.
Ms. de Cadenet has had her life blasted on the British tabloids since she was a teenager, and she does not advocate oversharing, especially on social media.
I think we are in major T.M.I.
culture right now, she said.
I share personal things about myself in the context of my interviews and in Its Messy  but thats 20 percent of my life.
There is another 80 percent that hasnt been talked about, or its not all the information.
Its enough that I needed to illustrate that story.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
How to know when to have a conversation

Research and know the facts.
For some parents, talking about pornography with their children at a young age seems inappropriate.
But Ms. de Cadenet knows that young people come across, and search for, pornography at extremely young ages.
She has spoken to her 10-year-old children about pornography, she said.
Other parents would be like, Oh, that is way too young, but what I know from my research is: It isnt too young.
How to deal with small talk

Just take a hard pass.
Just get rid of it immediately, she said.
Do not sit down with that person again.
I hate small talk!
I cant do it.
How to reach out to someone in a crisis

Keep putting your hand out, and need nothing back.
I had one girlfriend recently who had a monumental loss in her life, and I just sent her texts every day every day that just said, I love you, or I sent her a heart emoji, she said.
And I dont expect a response.
How do you get people to share their most vulnerable self?
What would you tell your 14-year-old self?
is the question that Ms. de Cadenet has found connects people to their most vulnerable and genuine self.
She said the age of 14 is a transitional age between girlhood and womanhood, a time that often evokes tears and emotions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How do you empower women in a professional setting?
Be willing to not be liked.
Its not about being liked.
Its about your idea being heard, said Ms. de Cadenet, who was recently in a scenario in which a group full of men kept talking over her and she had to ask them to stop.
That didnt go down very well.
Do they like me?
Do I care?
Was I heard?
Photo

Move fast and break things may have been Facebooks mantra, but few companies have taken the slogan to heart like Uber Technologies.
The ride-hailing company, which not long ago was valued at nearly $70 billion, has pushed aggressively into one market after another.
In London, watchdogs are now pushing back, and the Silicon Valley invader is finally seeking permission to continue operating, rather than asking for after-the-fact forgiveness for breaking rules.
Dara Khosrowshahi only recently took over as chief executive from Travis Kalanick, an Uber founder who was forced out of the top job for allowing, with an insufficiently vigilant board, a frat-boy culture to permeate the rapidly growing company.
With Ubers reputation tarnished and its valuation in danger of falling, Mr. Khosrowshahi came into the job on a damage-limitation mission.
That was even before Londons transportation regulator, Transport for London, dropped its bombshell last week, declining to renew the companys license to operate in the British capital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Londoners are up in arms.
A Save Your Uber petition begun by the company  a tactic that previously helped reverse regulators decisions in London and New York  has attracted nearly 800,000 signatures.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Aside from valuing the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of the service, some Uber users fear that Transport for Londons decision suggests that London isnt as open for business as it likes to appear, especially with the so-called Brexit looming.
Yet officials elsewhere have shown themselves even less accommodating.
Uber executives were arrested in France, for example.
And rules mostly exist for a reason.
Others are trying to straddle the divide.
Bloombergs Jeff Green and Eben Novy-Williams:

 Nike said it supports athletes and their right of freedom of expression on issues that are of great importance to our society.
Hyundai said it would stand for and respect individuals freedoms to express their First Amendment rights in any peaceful manner in which they choose.
Ford Motor said that it respected individuals rights to express their views, even if they are not ones we share.
Thats part of what makes America great.
But Denvers CBS4 reports that kneeling during the anthem appears to have cost the Denver Broncos linebacker Von Miller an endorsement from a local car dealership.
Worth Noting

Two of Mr. Trumps friends in the N.F.L.
have rebuked the presidents comments.
The New England quarterback Tom Brady to a Boston sports radio show: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
The Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones linked arms with his players and knelt before the anthem played in last nights game against the Arizona Cardinals.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
CBSs ratings for the N.F.L.
games it carried on Sunday were up 4 percent from last week, according to Yahoo Sportss Frank Schwab.
NBCs were down slightly, NBC News reports.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Greenhill Gets a Lifeline

The initiatives that the embattled investment bank announced on Monday come as its shares have fallen nearly 73 percent over the last five years.
The Terms

 Goldman Sachs will provide $300 million financing to buy back stock.
Greenhills founder, Robert Greenhill, and its chief executive, Scott Bok, will buy $10 million worth of stock.
Mr. Bok is taking a 90 percent salary cut.
Greenhill will buy as many as nine million outstanding shares for $17 each, an 18 percent premium to the stocks closing price on Monday.
The Context

The Financial Times's Sujeet Indap and James Fontanella-Khan point out that newer firms like Moelis & Company and Centerview Partners have grown faster in recent years.
And The Wall Street Journal's Liz Hoffman notes:

Mr. Greenhill has stepped back from the business in recent years, friends and employees say.
Key relationships that spurred deals in the firms early years have gone quiet as key contacts retire.
What Obama Is Telling Wall Street

Photo

The former presidents speech at the brokerage firm Cantor Fitzgerald didnt include swipes at the Trump administration.
What it did include: A sober look at what the Affordable Care Act accomplished and what needs fixing.
More from The Timess Kate Kelly, who was on the scene:

Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Entrepreneurs Abuse in Colombia Prison

Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, a former dot-com entrepreneur and Goldman Sachs banker, faces trial in October in federal court in Manhattan on charges of conspiracy to commit security and wire fraud.
But he had already spent 10 months in a Colombian prison, where, he says, he was abused and raped.
Mr. Tuzman recounted his experience to DealBooks Andrew Ross Sorkin:

They pushed me down to the floor by my head and shoulders.
One of them had a knife at my Adams apple.
I tried to leave my body, pretend that I wasnt living it.
I wanted to die.
Ive regretted at times since then that I didnt jerk my head away and let my throat be cut.
How to Woo Amazon

Photo

Cities are going to extreme lengths to draw the e-commerce titans attention, according to The Timess Nellie Bowles:

 Getting an Amazon Echo to suggest your city when asked where the company should build its second headquarters (Danbury, Conn.; Washington)

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Building war rooms to analyze what Jeff Bezos likes (Detroit; Tulsa, Okla.)

 Sending delegations to Seattle (Philadelphia; Ottawa)

Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., made a video:

The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Quote of the Day

Photo

While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, its equally true that weve got things wrong along the way.
On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes weve made.
Ubers chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, in an open letter in Londons Evening Standard
Dalos told Brown that he had seen the police around Fawnbrook and that the victims mother told him that the boys had been arrested.
He also pointed Brown to a couple of Facebook groups that were created in response to the crime.
Brown scrolled through them on his cellphone and saw links flying back and forth with articles that said that the little girl had been gang raped at knife point, that the perpetrators were Syrian refugees and that their fathers had celebrated with them afterward by giving them high fives.
The stories also claimed that the City Council and the police department were conspiring to bury the crime.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, Brown plowed through his daily packs of cigarettes as he watched hundreds, then thousands, of people joining the groups.
Their panic appeared to be piqued by a mass shooting, the deadliest in American history, that had just occurred at Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
The perpetrator had declared allegiance to ISIS.
The commenters also posted stories that claimed refugees were responsible for a rash of rapes in Europe and that a similar phenomenon in the United States was imminent.
My girl is blond and blue-eyed, one woman wrote.
I am extremely worried about her safety.
The details of the Fawnbrook case, as it became known, were still unclear to Brown, but he was skeptical of what he was reading.
For one thing, he knew from his own previous reporting that no Syrians had been resettled in Twin Falls after all.
He woke up early on Monday to get a head start on clarifying things as much as possible in order to write a follow-up article.
Before he got into the office, a friend texted him, telling him to check the Drudge Report.
At the top, a headline screamed: REPORT: Syrian Refugees Rape Little Girl at Knifepoint in Idaho.
Photo

As the only city of any size for 100 miles in any direction, Twin Falls serves as a modest hub within southern Idahos vast agricultural sprawl.
Its population of about 45,000 nearly doubles each day as people travel there to work, primarily in the thriving agribusinesses.
But its bucolic rhythms still allow for children to play outside unattended and make driving a meditative experience.
Surrounding the city and sprinkled among its tidy tract neighborhoods, potatoes, alfalfa, sugar beets and corn grow in fields.
Half a million dairy cows in the area produce three-quarters of the states milk supply.
Because of its location, Twin Falls is home to major food processors like Chobani Yogurt, Clif Bar and Glanbia Nutritionals, a dairy company.
All have large facilities in town and have helped to push down the unemployment rate to just under 3 percent, below the national average.
The wealth of easy-to-find low-skilled jobs made Twin Falls attractive as a place for resettling refugees, and they began arriving in the 1980s, at that time mostly from Cambodia and the former Yugoslavia.
Nearly 2,500 refugees have moved to the town over the years.
Most Twin Falls residents are churchgoing, and about half of those are Mormons.
Locally owned stores and restaurants are generally closed on Sundays, and the city has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936.
Liberals often register as Republicans just to have an opportunity to participate in the electoral process, by voting in the primaries.
If a Republican is going to win regardless, the thinking goes, they would at least like to play a role in deciding which one prevails.
The same qualities that bind the townspeople together can, in turn, be alienating to newcomers.
The refugee community has begun to experience this effect as its demographic makeup has changed.
Over the past decade and a half, as conflict spread across North Africa and the Middle East, Twin Falls started to resettle larger numbers of refugees with darker skin who follow an unfamiliar religion  two things that make it difficult to blend into a town that is 80 percent white.
On a national scale, an ascendant network of anti-Muslim activists and provocateurs has exploited the fears brought on by these changes, finding a platform and a receptive audience online.
The narrative they espouse  on blogs with names like Jihad Watch  is that America, currently 1 percent Muslim, is in the midst of an Islamic invasion.
Central to the worldview of these bloggers, some of whom have celebrity-size social-media followings, is that Muslims have a propensity toward sexual violence.
They seize on any news item that bolsters this notion.
Perhaps their biggest touchstone is an incident that took place in Cologne, Germany, on New Years Eve in 2015.
Mobs of men, many of them asylum seekers from the Middle East, pick-pocketed and groped more than a thousand women in and around a train station.
The German police acknowledged the incident had taken place only under pressure, as the womens stories began to leak out through the media.
This established, for these activists, the contours of a narrative that they believe has been repeating itself.
The Fawnbrook incident quickly drew their interest.
What happened in Twin Falls was sadly somewhat commonplace but not in the way the activists believed.
The local Police Department investigates sex crimes on a weekly basis, and in about half a dozen of those that proceed to court each year, the victims and the accused are both minors.
If its younger kids, its them being curious, J.R. Paredez, the lead investigator on the case, explained to me.
Some children who act out sexually have been victimized themselves, he said, while others have been exposed to explicit material at home or at school or, as is more common recently, on their cellphones.
As they start to get older, theres more of the actual sexual component to it.
Two weeks after the incident, the boys were charged with lewd and lascivious behavior against a minor.
(The 14-year-old who lent his cellphone to the boys was initially charged with the same crime.
He was not present in the laundry room, and his charge was eventually reduced to make him an accessory.)
In Idaho, this statute applies to physical contact done with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of such person, such minor child, or third party.
Paredez said that the cellphone video made clear what specifically had happened between the children, but that he couldnt show it to the reporters who asked him about it, because doing so would have constituted criminal distribution of child pornography.
He called most of the details that he read about the case on the internet 100 percent false, like not even close to being accurate.
(The family of the accused declined to comment.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As more time passed without a solid account of what happened inside the laundry room, lurid rumors continued to surface online and came to dominate conversations in grocery stores and at school events.
And while the City Council members did not have control over the case, the bloggers who wrote about it placed much of the blame on them.
On the Monday when Twin Falls was the top story on Drudge, the City Council held another weekly meeting.
Normally only a handful of people attend, and Brown is one of the few reporters among them.
But that night, the auditorium filled until there was standing room only, and television news crews appeared from Boise and other nearby cities.
When it came time for public comments, one man got up and praised the citys handling of the case, followed by more than a dozen others who laid into the council members.
Terry Edwards handed each of them a small copy of the Constitution and told them to do their jobs.
A woman named Vicky Davis, her hair in a satiny white bob, stood up and proclaimed that Islam had declared jihad on America.
They are not compatible with our culture, she said.
They hate us.
They dont want to be Americans.
They dont want to assimilate.
What do you need to see?
What more proof do you need?
This was a highly unusual meeting, but Brown wasnt exactly surprised.
Several months earlier, when the anti-refugee activists began to organize, he started reading up to try to better understand their views.
He picked up a book by Ann Coulter and began to follow the anti-refugee blogs.
At the meeting, he felt as if he were hearing all that he had read being repeated aloud by his neighbors.
Kingsbury, the police chief, read from a statement while fumbling with a thicket of microphones piled onto the lectern by visiting reporters.
In between exasperated breaths, he explained why he could not disclose the details of the incident but said that he could address some of the misinformation that was spreading online.
There was no evidence of a knife, he said, or of any celebration afterward or of a cover-up, and no Syrians were involved: The boys were from Sudan and Iraq.
Im a kid who grew up in Idaho, he said.
Law enforcement takes these types of allegations very seriously.
However, we cant act on them within an hour.
Its not like a crime show.
He told the audience that the boys had been arrested, to applause.
But online, Kingsburys words only inflamed the activists more.
Just after midnight, someone posted his work email address on Jihad Watch, along with those of the council members and the mayor.
A commenter on another website called The Muslim Issue posted the phone numbers and email addresses for the towns government officials, the head of the refugee-resettlement center and some administrators at the college, which runs the refugee resettlement program.
From there, the information spread to more blogs and to the comments sections of far-right news outlets with massive audiences.
Photo

By 9 the next morning, messages were pouring into the inbox of the mayor of Twin Falls, Shawn Barigar, nearly every minute.
Barigar grew up in a neighboring town and went to work in Boise as a television news anchor before moving back to start a family.
His even keel and the air of sophistication he picked up while living in a comparatively big city have made him popular politically.
He is left of the town on many social issues, which has made some of his constituents suspicious of him.
But most of the people who contacted him that summer were from other states and even other countries.
Some people demanded that the city pay for a new car and apartment for the victim and her family.
Others said that local officials attempts to correct inaccurate details about the incident were veiled efforts to suggest that no crime had occurred at all, in order to protect the refugees.
Others accused him of being a globalist, a word that has taken on many definitions but in this case meant he was part of a vast, arcane conspiracy.
They believed that establishment politicians wanted to turn red states like Idaho blue by starting wars and then importing refugees from those war zones as cheap labor who would not only displace American workers but also reliably vote Democratic.
Many of the people who wrote to the mayor had a much simpler goal: to unleash their hatred of Islam.
One message, with the subject line Muslims, said that refugees were committing rapes and hit-and-runs and urinating on women and that the mayor was guilty of treason.
Its out of the bag, [expletive], it read.
We will and are holding you responsible for any and all crimes committed by these quote refugees.
No courts.
No police.
Just us.
You will answer to us in the darkness of night.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The next day, Camille Barigar, the mayors wife, arrived in her office at the college, where she ran the performing-arts center, and started listening to her voice mail.
In a calm, measured voice, a man who sounded as if he was reading from a script went on for nearly four minutes.
I wonder, Miss Barigar, if your residence was posted online and your whereabouts identified, how you would feel if half a dozen Muslim men raped and sodomized you, Miss Barigar, and when you tried to scream, broke every tooth in your mouth, he said.
And then I wonder how youd feel if, when you went to the Twin Falls Police Department, they told you to run along, that this is simply cultural diversity.
The caller said that life was becoming difficult in the United States, just as it had in England.
He referenced Jo Cox, a British member of Parliament who spoke out in support of refugees and later met with opposition in the form of a bullet to the head.
Shes dead now, he said.
Theyve buried her.
Photo

The Twins Falls story aligned perfectly with the ideology that Stephen Bannon, then the head of Breitbart News, had been developing for years, about the havoc brought on by unchecked immigration and Islamism, all of it backed by big-business interests and establishment politicians.
Bannon latched onto the Fawnbrook case and used his influence to expand its reach.
During the weeks leading up to his appointment in August 2016 to lead Donald J. Trumps campaign for president, Twin Falls was a daily topic of discussion on Bannons national radio show, where he called it the beating heart of all that the coming presidential election was about.
He sent his lead investigative reporter, Lee Stranahan, to the town to investigate the case, boasting to his audience that Stranahan was a pit bull of a reporter.
Were going to let him off the chain, he said.
Then 50, Stranahan was relatively new to journalism.
He had spent a few decades as a television producer and a graphic illustrator in Los Angeles, and on the side he shot erotic photography, which is how he met his wife.
Stranahans transition into journalism began during the television writers strike of 2007 and 2008.
To keep himself entertained, he created parody political advertisements and posted them on YouTube.
One of the first was a satirical Rudy Giuliani ad, asking Republican primary voters to support him because he had taken good care of his mistress, offering her private security courtesy of the N.Y.P.D., whereas Mitt Romney didnt even bother to take on a paramour.
Stranahan says that within weeks, the videos led to invitations to appear on CNN and to meet with a vice president at NBC and to a job offer, which he accepted, writing political comedy for The Huffington Post.
In college, Stranahan was a libertarian and even attended Ayn Rands funeral.
But when he moved to California, he became a liberal, vehemently opposing the Iraq war and the presidency of George W. Bush.
He voted for Barack Obama in 2008.
Two years later, Stranahan interviewed Andrew Breitbart, a fellow Huffington Post alumnus, for an article he was writing about Jon Stewarts Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear.
They spoke for more than three hours, bonding over their shared love of Depeche Mode.
Eventually, Breitbart became Stranahans mentor, converted him to conservatism and offered him a job.
In 2011, Breitbart took Stranahan to the Conservative Political Action Conference and introduced him to Michele Bachmann, who, in Stranahans recollection, convinced him that she had uncovered disturbing details about Islam that no one in the establishment was willing to talk about.
Stranahan says this conversation was the genesis of his concerns about the religion.
Stranahan arrived in Idaho in August, after covering the national party conventions.
The sealed nature of the case prevented any journalist from an exhaustive examination, and the accused and the victims families refused to speak to the mainstream media.
But Stranahan thrived in the void of facts.
He was granted one of the few interviews with the victims family, but his account of the crime offered little more information than others had  and far more inaccuracies, according to the police and the county prosecutor.
He described what took place as a horrific gang rape and wrote graphic details about the incident, which the Twin Falls Police say are untrue.
On Breitbart radio, Stranahan openly wondered whether Barigar, the mayor, was a big, you know, Shariah supporter.
And he suggested repeatedly that mass rapes by refugees had occurred in Europe and were inevitably coming to the United States.
If you want to wait until your country turns into France or Cologne, Germany.
If you want to wait, you can wait, he warned the audience.
But if you want to watch it and stop it now, youve got a chance to do it in November.
Photo

Stranahan says his Breitbart editors sent him to Twin Falls to report on the Muslim takeover of the town.
(Breitbart denies this and says its absurd.)
But he soon became enamored of a grander theory about what was happening in southern Idaho: globalism.
He wrote that local businesses received government kickbacks for employing foreigners instead of Americans.
(Stranahan did not cite any evidence of this, and it is untrue, according to the state Department of Labor.)
And he often referred to a Syrian refugee crisis, though no Syrians were ever resettled there.
Then, to bring the story full circle, he claimed these Muslim refugees were being used to replace American workers and that the government, big business and law enforcement were either conspiring to conceal the sexual-assault case or intentionally looking the other way, in order to keep the machine turning.
Bottom line, this is bad for business, he told me in an interview last winter, explaining his interpretation of the city officials rationale:  Im not really going to look into this too deeply because if I find out the truth, if I discover what actually happened, if I figure out the truth, its not really good for business.
Stranahan believed that Chobani, a Greek-yogurt company, was at the center of the scheme.
Breitbart had been covering the company for months, ever since the owner, Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-born businessman, made a speech at the World Economic Forum at Davos encouraging other chief executives to pledge financial and political support to refugees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While he was in town, Stranahan embedded with critics of the refugee program.
They drove him to some of his interviews and to the yogurt factory to shoot drone footage.
Stranahan doesnt get around well on his own in part because he has been mostly blind in one eye since grade school, when a neighborhood kid threw a rock at him, shattering his right optic nerve.
Rather than a round pupil, his is jagged-edged, and so large that it nearly covers his iris.
He shuffles when he walks because of neuropathic foot pain from diabetes, which he regulates by eating a ketogenic diet, usually one meal a day, consisting entirely of protein and fat.
In Twin Falls, he subsisted most days on blackened chicken from Popeyes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the three months he was in Twin Falls, City Council members refused his interview requests, leaving him stuck inside an echo chamber with the activists, which he amplified online.
When I was in Twin Falls, I found myself empathizing: These same activists refused to speak with me.
One of the most outspoken among them is a woman named Julie DeWolfe, who lives atop a grassy hill 20 minutes outside town and who spent significant time with Stranahan.
When I went there to ask for an interview, she came outside with several barking dogs and told me to leave.
The company you work for is not trustworthy, she said.
As the summer came to a close, The Times-News was bombarded with threatening phone calls and email from all over.
After it received a threat that was deemed credible enough to engage the F.B.I., the editor of the paper told Brown and the other reporters to conduct their interviews outside the office and ordered the entire staff to walk in pairs when going out to their cars.
For months, the reporters covered protests around town, which were widely hyped on social media but, for the most part, sparsely attended.
At least once the Police Department deployed plainclothes officers into the crowds, with instructions to look after the journalists.
Later, it turned out that fake Facebook accounts linked to the Russian government helped to spread stories about Twin Falls and even organized one of the rallies there.
The event was also poorly attended but is the first known Russian attempt to spark a demonstration on American soil.
The phone and email attacks continued through the fall and spiked each time a new conspiracy theory was posted online.
One council member told me that she gained 15 pounds from the stress.
At night, Shawn Barigar would lie down with his iPad and spend hours reading stories that called him a crook, a liar or an ISIS sympathizer.
He had to shut down his Twitter account after someone accused him of having been convicted of sexual assault.
Before he could debunk the myth, the post had spread, leaving untold numbers of constituents under the impression that he was a rapist.
He stopped sleeping and struggled to focus at work or to be present with his family.
He and his wife say they bickered all summer.
It was like being in a hole, he told me, his eyes welling up with tears.
It was all-consuming.
Stranahan now works out of a trendy shared workspace in Washington, across the street from the White House.
He quit his job at Breitbart, which he said was being mismanaged in Bannons absence, to host a drive-time FM radio show with Sputnik, a state-run Russian news outlet.
He told me that he jumped at the chance to transition to a Kremlin-funded outfit and, knowing that it would be controversial, spoke to every media outlet that inquired about it, in order to draw even more people to his work.
He expressed no contrition about the reporting he did in Twin Falls, though many of the conclusions that he drew on the radio and online have been debunked.
Still, many of the outlets that covered Twin Falls made only minor tweaks to their stories or did nothing at all.
Many of the falsehoods that were written about the Fawnbrook case still appear at the top of a Google search of the city.
The most transparent course-correction resulted from a lawsuit against Alex Jones, the publisher of InfoWars, for its misleading stories about Chobani.
After initially vowing to fight the yogurt company in court, Jones retracted several stories and issued an apology in order to make a lawsuit go away.
Stranahan said that his editors forced him off the Twin Falls story during the fall and suggested that they had done so under threat from Chobani.
(Breitbart denies this.)
Stranahan and I spoke a handful of times over the course of the last year, each time for several hours.
Talking with him feels like being inside one of his conspiracy theories.
When you ask him a question, he begins to answer and then immediately swerves in a different direction, bouncing like a pinball between topics that barely connect to one another  from the Fawnbrook case to clitorectomies and stoning, then Syrian refugees, then a prominent Wahhabi cleric  and seems to increase in velocity as he ricochets off them.
Its an exhausting exercise, but also a fascinating one.
He seems perpetually on the precipice of pulling the argument together, sparking just enough curiosity that you let him keep going.
Stranahan uses this talent most effectively in his work, painting himself as a champion of people who are understandably uninformed about other cultures and religions based on their own experiences.
Its just easy to brand these people as a bunch of Islamophobic, racist yokels, he told me, with a hint of disgust in his voice.
I just dont like it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Stranahan struck me as passionate about his stories; not about their veracity but about the freedom he and the critics of refugee resettlement should have to speculate as they wanted without being belittled by the fact-mongering mainstream.
When I reached him by phone this June, he told me he was planning to travel back to Idaho for more reporting on Fawnbrook, now that he was no longer constrained by his editors at Breitbart.
He told me that he believed that he had uncovered another dimension of his globalist theory related to Chobanis participation in the federal school-lunch program.
He felt compelled to follow up on the earlier coverage, because he was frustrated that Alex Jones and others were forced to retract their stories and apologize under pressure.
I dont like people getting shut up like that, he said.
Even if their stories have problems, I dont like journalists getting shut down.
I started to ask why anyone should be allowed to publish false information for the express purpose of angering their audience and pushing them further away from those with whom they disagree, but Stranahan cut me off.
Hey, Im walking into the White House right now, he said.
He had just arrived for a press briefing with the presidents spokesman.
Let me call you back.
This April, the boys accused in the Fawnbrook case admitted guilt  the juvenile court equivalent to pleading guilty  and were sentenced in June.
The judge prohibited city officials from commenting on the outcome of the trial, but juvenile-justice experts told me that the boys would most likely be placed on probation and required to attend mandatory therapy to correct their behavior.
Even in Idaho, a state with tough sentencing requirements, the law bars anyone under 10 from being jailed and only allows it in extreme cases for anyone under 12.
Late one Monday night in June I received a phone call from Dalos, the Scanner Man.
He asked if I had heard about the fireworks flying around Twin Falls.
The news of the boys fate had somehow reached the public.
The suspects didnt go to jail or nothing, he said, adding that people in town were irate.
Facebook posts about the story were again flooding his feed.
Theyre blaming it on Muslim law, he said.
One of the articles circulating, from a site called Bare Naked Islam, included a photograph of the judge in the case with a large red arrow pointing toward his head, next to the caption Corrupt Judge.
Another article published the judges home address and phone number, inciting another flood of harassment, a year after the initial onslaught.
Shawn and Camille Barigars bickering has subsided, but they have discovered that they disagree over whether Islamic teachings conflict with American social norms.
I cant take the leap, Shawn told me, that because you are Muslim therefore you are reading the Quran verbatim, and youre going to go out and do genital mutilation.
Camille said she supported the local resettlement program but thought that her husbands unwillingness to even consider cultural differences or acknowledge any nuance was nave.
I think weve got to be careful, she said.
And I dont want to be afraid to talk about it entirely or, like, sound racist.
It is precisely this discomfort that provides an opening for people like Stranahan to dominate the conversation.
Part of the reason a fear of Islam has persisted in Twin Falls is because the local leadership refused to defuse it, according to Matt Christensen, 36, the editor of The Times-News.
While Brown wrote articles that sorted out the truth about the Fawnbrook case, Christensen was publishing commentary that castigated the people who were spreading falsehoods.
He told me that he had closed-door meetings with city officials, in which he asked them to write guest editorials doing the same, but none of them did.
Christensen suspected that they were afraid of one of the most reliable political dangers in the region, the same force that leads would-be Democrats there to register as Republicans: being outflanked on the right is the quickest way to lose your job.
Behind closed doors, they would all tell you they were pro-refugee, and we wanted them to step forward and make that declaration in a public arena, and it just never really happened, he told me.
That was frustrating to us especially at the beginning because it really felt like the newspaper was out there all alone.
He continued: There were days where we felt like, Godammit, what are we doing here?
We write a story and its going to reach 50,000 people.
Breitbart writes a story and its going to reach 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million people.
What kind of a voice do we have in this debate?
The refugee resettlement center received a dramatic increase in donations from local residents during the last year.
But those in the town who support the program have often been drowned out by the relatively smaller, but louder, group of activists who oppose it.
Brown said he expected to see an anti-Shariah bill introduced in the State Legislature when the next session starts in 2018.
Bills like this, which try to bar Islamic law from being used in American courts, have been introduced in the past two years in Boise but never passed.
He speculated that the momentum of the past year could force a different outcome.
There are a lot of people who feel like society is changing too quickly, like the community is changing too quickly, he told me.
And who view other people not like them or who dont speak their language as a threat or a sign that their culture is going to be weakened.
And they want to do what they can to stop that.
Photo

LOS ANGELES  Quietly, like a mouse on tiptoe, Disney overhauled its retail store at the Northridge Fashion Center mall in late July.
Out went the twisty Pixie Path aisles, the ornate displays, the green walls and the color-changing fiberglass trees.
In came a movie-theater-size screen, a simplified floor plan, white walls and more items for fashion-conscious adults.
What was Disney up to?
As it turns out, the Disney Store here was a prototype, and the company has been monitoring sales and consumer feedback as it prepares to revamp its 340-store chain.
We really want to learn as we go, especially through the holidays, so were going to roll the new look out slowly, Paul Gainer, executive vice president for Disney Stores Worldwide, said in an interview on Monday.
So far, were really thrilled with the results.
The redesign makes Disneys stores a bit more like Disneys theme parks.
For instance, daily parades at Disneyland in California and Walt Disney World in Florida will be streamed live to those colossal video screens.
During the parades, store personnel will put out mats for shoppers to sit on and roll out souvenir carts stocked with cotton candy and light-up Mickey Mouse ears.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The screens could easily be used to stream other events, such as red carpet arrivals for Disney movie premieres.
That kind of programming could bolster foot traffic, and thus sales  while also turning the stores into a more potent promotional platform for Disneys films, television shows and theme parks.
Its a word that has been attached to Ms. Waight Keller, 47, through most of her career, as the Birmingham, England-born designer has methodically climbed the fashion hierarchy: from design director of mens wear at Ralph Lauren to senior designer at Gucci to creative director of Pringle of Scotland to creative director of Chlo to, finally, Givenchy, a brand steeped in the history of French couture and Hollywood, all of it accomplished so unobtrusively no one entirely realized what was happening.
Photo

But that does not mean that on Sunday, when Ms. Waight Kellers first womens and mens collection for Givenchy is unveiled  the last of three big designer debuts taking place this Paris Fashion Week, and potentially the most freighted  she does not have revolution in mind.
I want to build an entirely new story, she said.
I want people to think, that was completely unexpected.
She was talking both about the brand and herself.
WHEN IT WAS FIRST ANNOUNCED that Ms. Waight Keller was taking over at Givenchy after Mr. Tisci resigned earlier in the year, a lot of eyebrows were raised.
Part of it had to do with fashions increasingly short memory (But wait  shes never done mens wear, was a common refrain, even though she had done it for both Ralph Lauren and Pringle).
Part of it had to do with the fact that her success at Chlo over the preceding six years had been built on a soft-focus aesthetic different from the more severely chic lines of Givenchy.
And part of it had to do with the fact that, in an industry that tends to associate oversize personalities with creativity, her reticence had made her easy to overlook.
It was a big, bold choice for them both, said Daniella Vitale, chief executive of Barneys New York.
One not without risk.
Photo

Especially in the wake of Mr. Tisci, an emotive, Instagram-savvy Italian who reinvigorated the brand by crossbreeding its Audrey Hepburn past with his own gothic sensibility and a dose of the street to make it relevant to the Kardashians and Beyonc alike.
He had a different kind of energy, Mr. Fortunato said, which is one way of putting it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By contrast, when she left Chlo in January, speculation was rife that Ms. Waight Keller wanted to return to England to spend more time with her family.
(If you think that sounds like gender-bias, you are probably right.)
She has three children, 14-year-old identical-twin girls and a 6-year-old son, who live in London with her husband, an architect; she spends Friday to Monday with them and then takes the Eurostar back to Paris.
Ms. Waight Keller rolled her eyes at the suggestion of time out.
Six months of gardening leave was not really something I wanted to contemplate, she said.
Her low-key manner has always masked an ambition that is only now really becoming clear.
Givenchy gives me the opportunity to focus on something the complete opposite of what I have done before, Ms. Waight Keller continued.
Its got a very different undercurrent.
Its really what people dont know about me.
Its a side of her that became apparent when she began talking to Mr. Fortunato about the job, and she presented him (and later Mr. Arnault) with a 150-page book she had created that detailed what she called a 360-degree plan for the brand, including about 50 ready-to-wear sketches and 20 handbag designs.
Photo

She now has the sort of control over the house that a designer such as Alessandro Michele has at Gucci and Hedi Slimane had at Yves Saint Laurent.
But LVMH has historically been reluctant to grant its artistic directors broad oversight, and that was one of the reasons Raf Simons, a much-feted designer at Christian Dior, left that brand in 2015.
Its not just the clothes and the bags and the shoes  and the jewels and the childrens wear and the sunglasses  its also the ad campaigns and the image of the beauty and fragrance lines, and the packaging, the website, store displays and lighting, and celebrity relationships.
She is planning monthly capsule collection drops online  la Supreme.
She is going to bring back the couture runway, which Givenchy discontinued in 2012.
And not just for women  for men, too.
All of which means she is very likely doing the most collections of any designer in Paris, at a time when most of her peers have been very vocal about the need to do less, and think more.
Im quite organized, Ms. Waight Keller said of her management style.
I think process creates structure and structure creates clarity.
Chaos creates neuroses.
LVMH has a lot riding on the idea she is right; the brand now has revenues believed to be approaching 600 million euros ($715 million) annually (LVMHs annual reports do not break out the performance of brands in what it calls the Fashion Group) and, Mr. Arnault said, I think it will grow very fast in the next two years.
He says he thinks it has the potential to reach the size of Dior, which is a member of the billion-euro club.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Clare has a very clear vision, even if she comes across as peaceful, Mr. Fortunato said.
Shes actually quite demanding.
And very driven.
One of her first moves was to sign up the photographer Steven Meisel, to shoot not only her first teaser ad campaign but also her new official portrait.
Its black and white, and she is staring directly at the viewer.
(A famous earlier portrait had her laughing and looking down, face half hidden by her hair).
She is preparing herself for her close up.
Photo

RECENTLY, WANTED POSTERS have popped up around Milan, Paris, London and New York featuring a photo of a glossy black cat with staring eyes, plus the usual tear-off tags with contact information.
If you look closely, they are invitations to register on the Givenchy website for tickets to the spring 2018 show.
Three winners will be chosen; as of Sunday morning, 50,000 had signed up.
I really have no idea what we are going to see, Ken Downing, fashion director of Neiman Marcus, said not long before the show.
Originally, industry speculation centered on the assumption that Ms. Waight Keller, who has a gamin air about her, was going to reorient the brand toward its Hepburn history, an idea she dismissed as a bit obvious.
Rather, what interested her about that relationship was the partnership between a man  Hubert de Givenchy  and a woman.
Its one of the founding myths of the brand, she said, and part of the reason one of her first decisions was to give the mens and womens sides parity: to combine the genders in her shows, her campaigns, her stories.
(Givenchy is also the rare brand where sales are divided equally between the sexes.)
She did go into the archive, and she did spend a lot of time thinking about M. de Givenchy, whom she refers to as Hubert (though they have yet to meet), and she did connect to his shapes from the 1950s and 60s, and yes, there is lace, and, yes, there is a trench.
But the end result is, she said, very graphic, much darker.
She borrowed an animal print, and one of gold lips.
On the runway, expect to see a lot of drama through the shoulder for women and flared legs for men.
Also daywear.
Also bags.
Accessories, and in particular leather goods, are the driver of luxury brands  with one size fits all and highly attractive margins, they can buoy a bottom line.
When it comes to bags, Givenchy has a spotty record but, as it happens, Ms. Waight Keller has a special talent for accessories, Mr. Arnault said.
Its one area she takes very personally.
The new style, which will be introduced on the runway, has been named GV3, in honor of the brands address.
That this might be a focus was fairly predictable.
Otherwise, Pamela Golbin, chief curator of the Muse de la Mode et du Textile in Paris, said she expected a unique vision of the archetypical Parisienne.
Downing summed it up: The only thing I know is: Its not going to be Givenchy as we know it.
The speech was Mr. Obamas third to a financial crowd in the past month  he also spoke to clients of the money-management firm Northern Trust Corporation and the private-equity firm Carlyle Group  and gave some indication of how he has been navigating the moneymaking opportunities of his newly private life.
Since leaving the White House in January, the former president and his wife have reportedly won a $60 million joint book deal, and his speaking fees  including to Cantor  have gone as high as $400,000 per speech.
He has also vacationed on an exclusive island and taken up residence in an $8.1 million home.
That is all in addition to a spate of unpaid speeches, including one to at-risk youths in Chicago, and a separate event Monday for the Beau Biden Foundation, which focuses on protecting children from abuse and was named for the son of Vice President Joe Biden who died of cancer in 2015.
Since leaving office, President Obama has spent his time doing public and private events, both paid and unpaid, that are true to his values and his record, Kevin Lewis, the former presidents spokesman, wrote in an email.
Mr. Lewis added that the paid speeches had helped make it possible for Mr. Obama to contribute $2 million to employment and job-training programs for low-income young people in Chicago.
Mr. Lewis declined to comment on how the president, who has avoided much of the criticism faced by Hillary Clinton and other public officials who made paid speeches to private industry after leaving office, selects his paid engagements.
At the Cantor event, Mr. Obama arrived on stage nearly a minute after the brokerage firms chief executive, Howard Lutnick, introduced him.
Ive got to work on my entrance timing, Mr. Lutnick joked as he waited, and waited, by the microphone.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After his prepared remarks and a few longer questions, Mr. Obama participated in what Mr. Lutnick called a lightning round.
But Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost more than 600 employees on Sept. 11, 2001, in the attack on the World Trade Center, is not a top-tier player in investment banking.
Leaner and less well-known than Wall Street blue-bloods like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, it brokers trades and gives strategic advice to small and midsize corporations.
Health care is one of its specialties.
Still, its crowd on Monday was full of marquee industry names, with representatives from hedge funds like Citadel and Balyasny, investment firms like Bain and Ares, and biotech companies like Amgen.
Most of the attendees were Cantor clients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not everyone, however, was laser-focused on the guest of honor.
Before the main event, some attendees made a bet on how late the speech would start  one guessed 20 minutes, another guessed 30.
In one of the venues spillover rooms, where roughly 200 people watched the former president on a video monitor, a man in the back row dozed off while others texted or nibbled on pastrami baguettes.
Last week, Mr. Obama called attempts to undo the Affordable Care Act aggravating at a Gates Foundation event and on Monday he called them a cynical political exercise.
Hours later, the opposition of a key senator appeared to leave the latest repeal bill without the necessary support to pass.
He acknowledged that the current system has problems, including that some states had not expanded Medicaid to the extent allowed by the A.C.A., and that some insurers were not providing coverage to parts of rural states.
The solution to the lack of coverage, he said, was a public fallback plan.
Another problem, Mr. Obama added, was that the current administration has taken steps to make it harder for people to sign up for coverage during this years open enrollment period.
He hinted that helping publicize that period would be a personal priority of his this year.
As a private citizen, Im going to have to help do what I can to help people get that information, he said.
The White House did not comment on Mr. Obamas criticism on Monday evening.
Some audience members said that they were gratified by Mr. Obamas remarks.
The thing that impressed me the most about the discussion today is that he really tried to stay away from the politics, Sara Finan, an investor-relations consultant from Akron, Ohio, said after the event.
He acknowledged the faults of the A.C.A.
But at the same time, he looked at, Lets not try and reinvent the wheel.
Despite a mostly button-down tone, Mr. Obama was not entirely without mirth.
Toward the end of his speech he referred to President Trumps recent tweets aimed at N.F.L.
players.
Our big problem right now is politics, he said.
Cant even get it out of football!
Mr. Tuzman says his ordeal began in September 2015.
He was on a business trip to Bogot and was planning to fly back to Philadelphia days later for Rosh Hashana when, he said, half a dozen Colombian officers surrounded him and told him to go with them.
My heart sank to my stomach because I thought a family member or business partner had been kidnapped and I was being taken to safety, he told me in an interview.
Later, in a side room at the airport, they told me that actually I was being arrested.
I begged to know why.
All they would say was that it was at the direction of the U.S. government.
Mr. Tuzman said he had no idea he had been charged, and, in contrast to many white-collar arrests, the United States government made no attempt to discuss with his lawyer the possibility of Mr. Tuzmans surrendering voluntarily in the United States.
Mr. Tuzman was put in a cell in La Picota, a notorious prison.
It had over a hundred people packed in it, stuffed against the walls and the rails, asking those of us in line for food, water, aspirin, whatever, he said.
The stench of feces and vomit was overwhelming.
There were literally people who had defecated in their pants.
Mr. Tuzman assumed that he would be quickly extradited to the United States.
But he soon found himself in a parallel universe, he said.
In the beginning, every day I thought: Theyre going to let me out tomorrow.
They have to realize this is a mistake.
But weeks went by.
His lawyers asked the United States Embassy to step in, warning that he could be abused or killed.
When Mr. Tuzmans lawyers recommended that he be released into the custody of a United States official and brought home where he could be rearrested, the United States authorities said their hands were tied by legal protocol.
That October, he said, he was raped.
Within an hour, he told his lawyer, Amanda Blaurock of Pedley & Blaurock, about it during an in-person meeting.
She then went to the United States Embassy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When the Mr. Tuzmans imprisonment in Colombia was finally brought to the attention of a federal judge, Paul G. Gardephe, in the Southern District of New York, Judge Gardephe said he was shocked by the governments unwillingness to step in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There is credible evidence here that this man is undergoing significant abuse, to the point that there is reason to be concerned about his life, the judge said.
He also challenged the government to tell me face to face they cant do anything about the conditions this man is in, and that if he has to stay there for nine months, there is nothing they can do about that.
Judge Gardephe lashed out at the prosecutors who recommended that, as an alternative to bringing Mr. Tuzman home, they could help him be moved to another prison, known as Cmbita.
Having sentenced numerous Colombian defendants in this courtroom, and having heard over and over again about the conditions that they were in during the period of time that they were awaiting extradition at Cmbita, the judge said, its shocking to me that the governments solution to the problem would be to transfer him to Cmbita.
Its shocking to me.
In a later hearing, however, Judge Gardephe said: To the extent that Tuzman has been mistreated in Colombia, there is no contention that the U.S. government engineered, arranged for or induced that mistreatment.
Indeed, the evidence before this court is all to the contrary.
Mr. Tuzman was extradited to the United States in July 2016.
Why the prosecutors didnt move more rapidly once he had been arrested  and why they arrested him in Bogot instead of waiting until he came home  isnt entirely clear.
The prosecutors have made the case that he was a flight risk  that he might flee to the United Arab Emirates, where he had family and friends.
Still, he was publicly scheduled to speak at a conference in Florida about a month after his arrest.
And he was not unknown to federal prosecutors.
Mr. Tuzman is a Harvard alumnus and said, I had been at my Harvard class reunion in Boston a few months before my arrest, and bumped into Preet Bharara, who was then the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.
They have a mutual friend.
Mr. Tuzman is home in New York awaiting his trial.
But he said he rarely forgets what happened after the rape: A few days after the assault, I was put on what they call a prison trial, where the guards purposefully leave their lookout stations and go away.
I was put on a table and accused of being a snitch for reporting what had happened to me.
Thats the worst thing you can be accused of in prison.
My knees were shaking.
I thought it was the end of my life.
Im only alive now because I hadnt given up their names.
It took some cajoling to get Mr. Tuzman to open up.
It has taken me a very long time to feel prepared to talk about some of this, he said.
You have to get past fear of reprisals, self-hate, all this other stuff that goes through your head.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres a code of silence on this kind of prison assault, which was reinforced by an official at the U.S. Embassy who visited me in La Picota and told me things could get worse for me if I spoke to the press.
But at some point, I guess, I needed to find meaning in all of this.
The trial he faces in New York is no small matter.
A jury will decide his case.
But he said he needed to speak out about what had happened to him already.
The U.S. effectively uses the extradition system and foreign prisons like those in Colombia as black sites, even for holding American citizens, he said.
I simply cannot understand why the United States would let one of its own citizens be subjected to this, and I want to help ensure it never happens again.
In recent years, Walmart has gotten the jump on Target by being the first to announce a series of base pay hikes.
In February 2015, Walmart said it would raise base wages for 500,000 workers to at least $9 an hour, with an increase to $10 an hour in 2016.
That year, Walmart also gave raises to more than 1.2 million hourly workers, which pushed the average hourly full-time store employee up to $13.38 an hour.
Target followed suit with its own wage increases in 2015 and 2016, promising a $10-an-hour base last year.
Target has always offered market competitive wages to our team members, Brian Cornell, Targets chief executive, said in a statement announcing the new base rate.
With this latest commitment, well be providing even more meaningful pay.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Monday, a Walmart spokesman said the company is always reviewing where its stands in terms of pay.
Were committed to providing pay and training for our associates that is competitive in the market, said the spokesman, Kory Lundberg.
Targets $11-an-hour base pay exceeds the minimum wage in 48 states and matches the pay floor set by Massachusetts and Washington State, two of the 19 states that raised their minimum wages at the start of the year.
It far exceeds the federal base, which has remained at $7.25 an hour since 2009.
Retail is the largest private-sector employer in the United States, according to the National Retail Federation.
Cashiers receive a median hourly wage of $9.40, while sales associates receive $9.77 and store managers are paid $14.86, according to compensation tracker PayScale.
But Target, like many retailers, is struggling to adapt to e-commerce and pricing pressures.
Earlier this month, the company said it would cut prices on thousands of products, stoking concerns from investors.
The Minneapolis-based chain, which has been trying to clean up after a data breach in 2013 that compromised the data of millions of customers, agreed in May to pay $18.5 million to 47 states and the District of Columbia in a settlement.
Targets stock price is down 16 percent this year.
Target is probably responding in part to ever-present Help Wanted signs as it tries to recruit and retain workers, said John W. Budd, a professor at the University of Minnesotas Carlson School of Management.
But the company could also be trying to convince consumers that it is a good corporate citizen before lawmakers try to push up the timeline for minimum wage increases.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I wonder whether a small part of this is to shift the narrative, to wrest back control of the agenda, before negative publicity causes the public to clamor for greater legislative action, he said.
"After all, businesses prefer to set their own terms and conditions of employment.
Photo

HOUSTON  Exxon Mobil announced a program on Monday to reduce emissions of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from its oil and natural gas production and pipeline operations across the United States.
Methane has many sources, including decomposing landfills and ranch operations.
But the oil and gas industry is most likely the biggest emitter of leaked methane, a greenhouse gas that traps more than 80 times as much heat within the atmosphere as carbon dioxide over a 20-year period, though it dissipates more quickly.
Exxon Mobil is the nations biggest producer of natural gas, so its program to make repairs, monitor operations for leaks and replace leaky equipment may serve as an example for the industry.
Several large gas producers are moving forward with methane control programs, but others have resisted the effort as too burdensome.
Sara Ortwein, president of Exxon Mobils gas subsidiary XTO Energy, said in a statement that the goal of the Exxon program was to continually reduce methane emissions.
She added that the company would look to develop and deploy new, more efficient technologies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cutting emissions from leaks is important in bolstering the reputation of natural gas as a clean fuel compared with coal.
By some estimates, the American energy industry lets enough natural gas escape each year to meet the heating and cooking needs of about seven million homes.
Over two decades, that runaway gas has about the same impact on global warming as 240 coal-fired power plants, according to the Environmental Defense Fund.
Photo

The founder of Tales of the Cocktail, the New Orleans convention that has become a must-attend annual town hall for the drinks business, announced Saturday that she would step down, months after a controversial costumed ride in a Mardi Gras parade.
Our goal has always been to create something lasting that can benefit the industry and the people of New Orleans well beyond our years.
This allows that to continue, said Ann R. Tuennerman in her resignation statement.
Ms. Tuennerman founded Tales 15 years ago, later running it with her husband, Paul, and the event has grown from a tiny gathering of cocktail aficionados to a massive international enterprise with corporate liquor sponsorships.
Both of them resigned over the weekend.
A string of events led to the resignations.
It began in March, when the Tuennermans, who are white, were denounced after posting a Facebook Live video of Ms. Tuennerman wearing blackface for the Zulu Mardi Gras parade, with a caption that included what was intended as a joking reference to blackface.
The Zulu Social Aid and Pleasure Club is one of the oldest African-American social clubs in New Orleans, and during the annual Carnival parade, many of its members and float riders, both black and white, wear blackface, wigs and grass skirts.
The Facebook post traveled far beyond New Orleans at a time when the cocktail community was already grappling with issues of diversity and sexism within the industry.
Mr. Tuennerman left his position as chief business officer, and a diversity council was formed, made up of minority and female members from the bar world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But late last week, Neat Pour, a new industry news site, reported that Mr. Tuennerman would return to the organization.
Colin Asare-Appiah  a chairman of the diversity council and, as a former bartender and current brand ambassador with Bacardi, a well-known figure in bar circles  announced he was resigning from the council.
Other members also resigned, while some chose to remain.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ann made the independent decision to recently invite Paul Tuennerman back into the Tales organization, without consulting or advising the diversity council, Mr. Asare-Appiah wrote in a Facebook post.
In doing so, her action has undermined the councils very existence.
The Tuennermans announced on Saturday that they would relinquish their producing roles, handing over the reins to Melissa Young, the director of operations.
It was unclear whether the Tuennermans had divested themselves from their company MOJO 911, which produces Tales of the Cocktail.
Researchers generated a list of hateful terms used on the two forums, and tracked the use of those terms across Reddit.
They also compared the activity of users who posted hateful terms before the bans with those users activity after, to determine whether they had infiltrated other Reddit forums.
The goal was to figure out what happened when these toxic communities were shut down.
Did the amount of hateful language on Reddit decrease?
Did users of hateful forums migrate to other parts of the site?
Did any of them change their behavior as a result of the bans?
The study found that, to a large extent, the bans worked.
Some users who had posted offensive material on the forums that were shut down stopped using Reddit entirely.
Of those who continued to use the site, many migrated to other forums, but they did not bring significant amounts of toxic speech with them, and the forums they moved to did not become more hateful as a result of their presence.
Over all, the users who stayed on Reddit after the bans took effect decreased their use of hate speech by more than 80 percent.
By shutting down these echo chambers of hate, Reddit caused the people participating to either leave the site or dramatically change their linguistic behavior, the researchers wrote.
In an interview, two of the researchers who led the study told me that although they had only examined Reddit, their findings might be applicable to social networks like Facebook and Twitter, which tend to enforce their rules against individuals, rather than groups.
They also tend to issue bans in a defensive, case-by-case manner, often in response to user-generated reports of bad behavior.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the results of the study suggest that proactively shutting down nodes where hateful activity is concentrated may be more effective.
Banning places where people congregate to engage in certain behaviors makes it harder for them to do so, said Eshwar Chandrasekharan, a doctoral student at Georgia Tech and the studys lead author.
Eric Gilbert, an associate professor at the University of Michigan and one of the researchers involved in the study, said that Reddits approach worked because it had a clear set of targets.
They didnt ban people, he said.
They didnt ban words.
They banned the spaces where those words were likely to be written down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is, of course, a small case study  two Reddit forums out of millions of online spaces where antisocial behavior occurs  and methods for quantifying hate speech are still imperfect.
(This studys approach would have flagged one user chastising another for using a racist slur as hateful speech, if the slur were repeated as part of the chastising, for example.)
The study also did not account for users who left Reddit altogether, some of whom may have continued to use hate speech elsewhere online.
Other online communities have had success with a broad-based approach to moderating hate speech.
Discord, a private chat app, banned several large right-wing political chat rooms from its platform this year, after some of the speech turned hateful and violent.
The bans did not entirely end hate speech on Discord, but they did break up these communities and made it harder for trolls to find and talk with one another.
There is no guarantee that a similar approach would work on a larger network.
And there are risks to employing aggressive moderation tactics.
Some platforms, such as YouTube, have been criticized when their hate speech filters have wrongly targeted videos posted by lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender creators.
Twitters banning of a number of alt-right activists en masse last year prompted a right-wing backlash.
And Facebooks security chief, who said last month that the social network shut down more than a million accounts every day, has also said that policing hate speech more aggressively would increase the number of false positives, or posts wrongly flagged as offensive.
Social networks are increasingly feeling pressure to address hateful speech, not just for the sake of users but in response to legal and political challenges.
German authorities, for example, have threatened to fine social networks, including Facebook and Twitter, up to 50 million euros, or $53 million, for failing to remove harmful content in a timely manner.
As these platforms strategize about how to take on hate speech, it would be smart to study the geography of their networks  which groups, pages and subcommunities tend to encourage this behavior  and the effect of closing those spaces, even without a specific violation or report of abusive speech.
It might seem odd to focus on a space, rather than on a person or an act.
But as the Reddit example shows, the broadest approach is sometimes the right one.
Showcase Cinemas, with 29 cinemas in six states including the one in Connecticut, is not alone.
AMC Cinemas, with its purchase of Carmike Cinemas in late 2016, offers meetings in 660 theaters.
AMC and Regal Entertainment Group, with over 560 theaters in 43 states, have dedicated event-planning staffs.
Regal said the number of events it hosted had increased to 11,000 in 2016 from about 5,000 in 2011.
The theaters are used by nonprofit groups and for church services as well as business meetings.
By using technology, multiple locations can provide an identical experience.
In February, Bruce Reid, while working at Mills James, a media production company in Columbus, Ohio, coordinated a meeting for a major retailer in 22 movie theaters across the country.
Allowing for changes in time zones, half were used one day, the remainder the next.
Photo

Mr. Reid, who is now an independent consultant, said he saw social media as influencing where to hold an event.
How social media depicts travel is making travel less attractive and something we dont want to go out of our way to do anymore, he said.
And from the theaters perspective, the meetings and gatherings are providing additional revenue.
Because the theater owners are already paying rent, real estate taxes, utilities, payroll, etc., the incremental revenue from meetings is highly profitable because only the incremental costs are measured relative to the meeting revenue, Bjorn Hanson, a clinical professor of hospitality and tourism at New York University, said in an email.
Smaller chains, like Alamo Drafthouse (29 theaters) and AFI Cinemas (three theaters), also court gatherings.
At Alamo Drafthouse, food is served directly to a theatergoers seat.
Customers have a choice of craft cocktails and craft beers.
Kimberly Sandel, manager of private and community events at the Austin Drafthouse Cinema, said companies use the theater as a recruiting tool.
It sends a message, she said, Look at how cool and fun we are.
AFI Silver Theater and Cultural Center in Silver Spring, Md., has made a virtue of the high-definition digital cinema projection in its Art Deco theater.
Physicians and residents attending the American Institute for Radiologic Pathology, a program of the American College of Radiology, can use the projector to study slides of diseases.
The physicians occupy the theater five times a year for four weeks at a time, according to Tiffany Graham-Golden, director of marketing and events for the theater.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

LeeAnn Downey, the chief administrative officer at Bellco Credit Union in Denver, said the company used to hold its annual meeting for 300 to 400 employees after work at a local hotel.
The audiovisual was always a problem, she said, and attendees had trouble seeing the presentation.
For the last two years, the company has gone to a local multiplex for a breakfast meeting on Columbus Day, when branches are closed.
There is boxed catering; the theater provides coffee.
Photo

She said the big draw at the mandatory meeting is the technology and screen visibility.
During presentations, quizzes appear on the screen.
When a speaker from the National Credit Union Foundation in Madison, Wis., asked what percentage of Americans lived from paycheck to paycheck, participants could check answers they keyed in on their mobile devices with the actual answer on the screen.
(The answer is nearly half.)
Ms. Downey said the theater rental is probably a little cheaper than the hotel, but not a lot.
Conference room rental fees and audiovisual requirements cost a couple of thousand dollars at a hotel, she said.
At a movie theater, those fees are included in the rental.
Christina Panos, chief marketing officer at the Corcoran Group, a real estate company with offices in New York, the Hamptons and Florida, said the company chose the Ziegfeld Theater (now closed) to present a website redesign in November 2012.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The 900 sales agents came came to theater expecting entertainment, she said, not to be focused on their BlackBerries, the prevailing technology at the time.
The theater setting provided additional motivation.
Its been home to amazing entertainment, she said.
While movie theaters are gaining acceptance among meeting planners, they probably will not replace traditional meeting spaces.
Mark Cooper, the chief executive of the International Association of Conference Centers, said in an email: The use of unusual venues for events is not new, but also often offers an environment that has a novelty appeal but lacking the ideal facilities (acoustics, lighting, furniture and technology) required for effective meetings and conferences.
They are used more for evening corporate events rather than serious meetings and conferences in my experience.
But Mr. Jouaneh, the American Express Meetings and Events executive, said technology was transforming meetings, allowing planners to adjust content.
And he said using theaters allows for a hybrid approach, with a combination of face-to-face meetings and extending meetings to a broader virtual audience.
For Ms. Downey, there may be another reason for the popularity of movie theaters among employees.
She said she had received high praise both for the central location and the ease of parking.
Parking downtown for the hotel meetings was a bear and expensive, she said.
Photo

In its pursuit of growth, Unilever is moving away from mayonnaise and toward makeup.
The latest sign of the companys shift from stalwart products came Monday, when Unilever announced plans to buy Carver Korea, an Asian skin care specialist, for 2.27 billion euros, or $2.7 billion.
The deal also highlights how aggressively the British-Dutch conglomerate is pushing to expand in Asia, where the skin care market has been growing quickly.
By Unilevers estimates, South Korea is the fourth-biggest skin care market in the world.
And the countrys beauty sales could reach as much as $13 billion in sales this year, according to the research company Mintel.
Perhaps more important, Korean beauty products have growing fan bases in other major markets like China and Japan.
Unilever struck its acquisition despite the geopolitical frost that has descended onto the relationship between Beijing and Seoul.
Some Korean skin care manufacturers have suffered from Chinas halting group tours into South Korea, amid anger over that countrys deploying an antimissile shield to guard against North Korea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Within the Asian beauty products industry, Carver has become one of the most popular manufacturers around.
Its A.H.C.
line of products stretches from moisturizers to eye creams to sunblock.
Photo

It is not just any woman who can knock Taylor Swift from No.
But Cardi B, whose Bodak Yellow (Money Moves) ascends to the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart this week, is no ordinary woman.
A former stripper who grew up in the Bronx, she became an Instagram celebrity and star on Love & Hip Hop: New York with bawdy talk and lots of wigs.
Bodak Yellow (in which she raps, I dont dance now, I make money moves) has been shooting fast up the chart this summer, and on the latest edition it goes to No.
1, bumping Ms. Swifts Look What You Made Me Do to third place after three weeks at the top.
(Post Malones Rockstar is No.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Bodak Yellow (Money Moves) marks the first chart-topper by a solo female rapper in nearly two decades, since Lauryn Hills Doo Wop (That Thing) in 1998.
Cardi Bs label, Atlantic Records, celebrated the milestone on Monday afternoon in Manhattan with a Champagne toast and a cake modeled after a box of Christian Louboutin high heels (referred to in the song as red bottoms, or bloody shoes).
In brief remarks to the crowd, Cardi B noted the grass-roots, viral nature of the songs rise, thanking her friends and family for promoting it on social media.
I never asked them, they just did it voluntarily, every day harassing their followers like, Make sure you download and stream Bodak Yellow  and look what you made me do, she said, breaking into a good-natured rendition of Ms. Swifts hit.
Also this week, Foo Fighters clinched the No.
1 album spot for a second time with Concrete and Gold (RCA), the bands ninth studio release, which opened at No.
1 with 120,000 sales and 9.3 million streams, according to Nielsen.
The rapper Lil Uzi Vert rose two spots to No.
2 with Luv Is Rage 2, and the country singer Thomas Rhetts Life Changes, last weeks top seller, fell to No.
Kendrick Lamar is in fourth place, XXXTentacion is No.
5 and Khalid is No 6.
But perhaps the biggest news in the Top 10 is from BTS, a seven-piece boy band from South Korea, whose EP Love Yourself: Her opened at No.
7, the highest chart position ever for a K-pop group.
The album had 18,000 sales and 14.5 million streams.
Facebook declined to comment, following past practice when asked about WhatsApps difficulties in China.
Lokman Tsui, an internet communications specialist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that WhatsApp seemed to have been severely disrupted starting on Sunday.
But he said that some WhatsApp users might still be able to use the service.
The Chinese authorities have a history of mostly, but not entirely, blocking internet services, as well as slowing them down so much that they become useless.
The censorship has prompted many in China to switch to communications methods that function smoothly and quickly but that are easily monitored by the Chinese authorities, like the WeChat app of the Chinese internet company Tencent, which is based in Shenzhen.
If youre only allowed to drive one mile per hour, youre not going to drive on that road, even if its not technically blocked, Mr. Tsui said.
The disruption of WhatsApp comes as Beijing prepares for the Communist Partys congress, which starts Oct. 18.
Held once every five years, the congress chooses the partys leadership, which in turn runs the country.
Next months meeting is expected to reconfirm President Xi Jinpings nearly absolute grip on power, but considerable uncertainty remains over who will join him on the Standing Committee of the Politburo, the partys highest-ranking group.
Over the past several years, China has not only stepped up censorship but also closed numerous churches and jailed large numbers of human rights activists, lawyers and advocates for ethnic minorities.
The shutdown of WhatsApp prompted considerable dismay on Chinese social media.
Losing contact with my clients, forced back to the age of telephone and email for work now, one user complained on Weibo, a Twitter-like microblogging site.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even WhatsApp is blocked now?
Im going to be out of business soon, another Chinese social media user said on Weibo.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In China, even the use of email is fading as residents embrace the convenience of WeChat.
The messaging service, which has 963 million active users, bears some similarities to WhatsApp but has a wider array of features and one crucial difference: close ties to the government.
This month, WeChat sent a notice to users reminding them that it complied with official requests for information.
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it agreed to open online data services and other enhanced telecommunications services to international competition.
But it obtained the assent of other W.T.O.
members to retain restrictions on the media.
Technology multinationals, heavily dependent on the Chinese market, have been reluctant to accuse Beijing of falling short of its W.T.O.
commitments.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative has opened a formal investigation into whether China is violating the intellectual property of American companies, but it has released few details.
The trade office has not said whether the inquiry will include the blocking of products that rely on American intellectual property, or whether it will focus more narrowly on cases in which China has allegedly purloined or otherwise copied it.
WhatsApp has a strong reputation among cryptographers for security, which may have been what drew the attention of Chinese censors.
The app provides so-called end-to-end encryption, which effectively means that even Facebook does not know what is being said in the text, voice and video conversations passing through its servers.
WhatsApps video, file sharing and other advanced features rely partly on broadly used internet data transfer protocols, and were disrupted over the summer.
But its text messaging function relies on a different, heavily encrypted method for moving data that has seldom been used by companies.
The latest disruption of the WhatsApp messaging system suggests that Chinas censorship apparatus may have figured out how to target the more uncommon and heavily encrypted data transport protocol as well, Mr. Kobeissi said.
Other services provided by American technology companies are available in mainland China.
The country tolerates Microsofts Skype service for phone calls, which does not provide end-to-end encryption and as a result is easier for governments to monitor.
Beijing also allows Apples FaceTime service, which has end-to-end encryption but does not have a WhatsApp-like feature allowing users to exchange secret codes  letting WhatsApp users combat what are known as man in the middle attacks.
By blocking the heavily encrypted WhatsApp service while making less secure applications like WeChat available to the public, the Chinese government has herded its internet users toward methods of communication that it can reliably monitor.
Residents of mainland China can still use services like WhatsApp if they first connect to virtual private networks that provide them with communications channels to servers outside the Chinese mainland.
But the government has also been cracking down on virtual private networks in recent months  and even when those networks appear to be working, they sometimes do not allow access to services that the government is particularly targeting.
A big reason for the decline: Unemployed men are less likely to be seen as marriage material.
Women dont want to take a risk on somebody whos not going to be able to provide anything, said Sharon Sassler, a sociologist at Cornell who published Cohabitation Nation: Gender, Class, and the Remaking of Relationships with Amanda Jayne Miller last month.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with an adjusted family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not bachelors degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile or without high school diplomas, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile or with college degrees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving in together quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October.
A judge had ruled then that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitled, rather than treating them as contractors.
Calculating Fallout from the German Elections

Angela Merkel won her fourth term as chancellor.
But the electoral showing of a far-right party, Alternative for Germany, dimmed her victory  and knocked down the euros value this morning.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter Every weekday, twice a day, get the news driving the markets and the latest on mergers and acquisitions.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The result is expected to lead to a tougher line on fiscal discipline in the eurozone, pushing up yields on government bonds in places like Spain and Italy, according to The Financial Timess Michael Hunter.
But some expect the weakness of the euro to be short term, Reuters Saikat Chatterjee reports:

The impact is limited, as the German election results is more of a domestic political story for now rather than a regional European trend, and the euro will be more sensitive to any shift in direction from the European Central Bank policy, said Viraj Patel, an FX strategist at ING Bank in London.
What to Look Out For

Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, is to give a monetary policy update at the European Parliament on Monday.
Uber Grapples With Being Banned From London

Uber said on Monday that it was unclear why Londons travel authorities had decided not to renew its license.
Reuters reports:

Sitting down with TfL (Transport for London) representatives as soon as possible would be the most helpful thing to really understand their concerns to work out what they are, Ubers U.K. Head of Cities Fred Jones told BBC radio.
Its just not clear for us what their concerns might be.
Ubers chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, took the moment to engage in some self-reflection, according to Recodes Johana Bhuiyan:

Irrespective of whether we did everything that is being said about us in London today (and to be clear, I dont think we did), it really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another.
Regulator Wants More Self-Reporting From Finance

In the Obama administration, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was one of the toughest financial regulators around.
Under President Trump, its adopting a new strategy.
The Timess David Enrich obtained a preview of a forthcoming speech by the commissions director of enforcement, James McDonald:

We also recognize that no matter how much corporate leaders may want to foster compliance within the company, when they detect misconduct their decision whether to voluntarily report it often comes down to their perception of whether theyll be treated fairly.
The Context

Heres how The Times described the regulators former chief Gary Gensler in 2014:

But even as Mr. Genslers aggressive streak thrust the once-backwater agency into the front lines of reform, it also maddened colleagues and complicated his legacy.
And now that his tenure is ending on Friday, the agency has reached an inflection point, prompting Wall Street to hope for a friendlier regulator.
More Blowback for Facebook

Is it time for Facebook to step up and be regulated?
Antonio Garca Martnez, a former employee, writes in Wired: The company needs to put its big boy pants and assume its place on the world stage.
Meanwhile, The Washington Post reports that Mark Zuckerberg received a high-level warning about political interference last year:

Huddled in a private room on the sidelines of a meeting of world leaders in Lima, Peru, two months before Trumps inauguration, Obama made a personal appeal to Zuckerberg to take the threat of fake news and political disinformation seriously.
Unless Facebook and the government did more to address the threat, Obama warned, it would only get worse in the next presidential race.
Related Reading

 Maureen Dowd wonders about automation after Sheryl Sandberg apologized for ad-buying tools that enabled advertisers to direct pitches of people who expressed interest in topics like why jews ruin the world.
Facebook dropped a proposal to reclassify its stock, a move that would have solidified Mr. Zuckerbergs control over the social network, in a victory for shareholders in a class-action lawsuit.
The Men in Tech Who Think Gender Equality Has Gone Too Far

James Altizer, an engineer at the chip maker Nvidia who leads a group called Bay Area Fathers Rights, to The Timess Nellie Bowles:

Its a witch hunt, he said in a phone interview, contending men are being fired by dangerous human resources departments.
Im sitting in a soundproof booth right now because Im afraid someone will hear me.
When youre discussing gender issues, its almost religious, the response.
Its almost zealotry.
Ms. Bowless piece stirred up a lot of debate on Twitter:
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Moras project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
A Hybrid Solution

In the early 1980s, Dr. Phillips-Mora worked to identify the most naturally tolerant and productive cacao trees, then painstakingly hybridized the candidates to create novel varieties.
Breeding hybrid cacao clones is a lengthy process, and experts worldwide have largely failed in this endeavor.
But in 2006, Dr. Phillips-Mora released his first batch of hybrid cacao varieties.
Photo

Photo

In terms of disease resistance and yield, the differences were astonishing.
Dr. Phillips-Moras six hybrids produce on average about three times more cacao than standard varieties; under ideal conditions, the most prolific hybrids can produce six times more cacao.
After an 11-year trial, a hybrid called C.A.T.I.E.-R6 experienced a 5 percent frosty pod rot infection rate, compared to 75 percent infection for a control variety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our goal is not just to produce cacao, Dr. Phillips-Mora said.
Its also to give the basic living conditions to the farmers.
Most cacao farmers are very poor, because the system is based on material that doesnt have good yielding capacity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Trees that buck this trend could make the family business look more enticing to the next generation of cacao growers.
The C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids are now growing in all Central American countries, as well as in Mexico and Brazil.
Agricultural yield and disease resistance may benefit farmers, but a cacao crop is worthless if it produces bland or foul-tasting chocolate.
Chocolate is the epitome of gastronomic hedonism.
But unlike nearly every other modern effort to increase crop yields, Dr. Phillips-Moras breeding program incorporates fine flavor as a prerequisite.
Cacao varieties that dont impress expert palates are discarded, no matter how well they grow.
Photo

The result of this protocol is that unlike many other crops favored for agronomics  the Red Delicious apple, the Cavendish banana  C.A.T.I.E.s cacao actually tastes good.
Chocolate makers are beginning to roast and package Dr. Phillips-Moras varieties.
Dandelion Chocolate, based in San Francisco, recently released a bar made from a mix of all six C.A.T.I.E.
hybrids.
I think honestly its going to be one of our most popular bars, said Greg DAlesandre, who heads cacao sourcing at Dandelion.
It has this nice balance of chocolaty and caramel notes, but it keeps it very accessible.
Dr. Phillips-Moras hybrid cacao varieties do not offer a perfect solution to all the crops challenges.
They cannot all self-pollinate, and some of the beans are small; they havent been properly tested in Africa or Asia, and they are not yet resistant to all the pathogens that afflict cacao globally.
Field trials are nearing completion on a new batch of clones bred to address some of these issues.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, the current roster of C.A.T.I.E.
clones were bred in response to known cacao production threats; the future will present new demands.
Pathogens evolve.
Unstable political situations in the developing world can affect agriculture.
Climate change will alter landscapes in unpredictable ways.
The solution is not to replace all cacao with the six available C.A.T.I.E.
varieties, but to be able to continue to diversify the cacao materials growing worldwide.
Like the Svalbard Global Seed Vault, the International Cacao Collection is a contingency against future disasters of unknown character.
Whatever fungal mutation may arise, wherever drought may strike, however chocolate tastes may change  there will likely be cacao genes somewhere in the collection that can form the basis of new hybrids to meet future challenges.
Photo

Still, Dr. Phillips-Mora worries about the future.
Though he works with deep-pocketed companies like Mars, Nestl and Hershey, the funds he receives are generally earmarked for specific research projects rather than for the maintenance of the collection and program for the future.
He estimates that he receives less than 5 percent of the funds necessary for proper upkeep of the collection each year.
So although Dr. Phillips-Mora retired three years ago, he plans to keep working until the solvency of the collection is ensured.
I will be very happy when I leave this institution to know that the collection will be protected financially, he said.
Its a treasure for everybody, for all the cocoa lovers.
That sometimes means going to extreme lengths to draw Mr. Bezos eye.
Is Mr. Bezos impressed?
Were energized by the response, said Adam Sedo, an Amazon spokesman.
We invited cities to think big, and we are starting to see their creativity.
Photo

For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Photo

Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Ontario, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.
Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company did not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Photo

Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Whatever it takes, he said.
Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really had no other course than to try to win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its a hardy plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
Photo

LONDON  The Swiss engineering firm ABB Group said on Monday that it would buy General Electrics business that provides circuit breakers and other electrical equipment for industry for $2.6 billion, as the American giant looks for ways to shake up its operations.
The deal is the latest move by General Electric as it seeks to refocus on its roots.
The company had expanded into a sprawling conglomerate but its once-huge financial business threatened its survival after the 2008 economic crisis, and it has been selling off an array of units since.
has also come under pressure from the activist hedge fund Trian Fund Management, led by the billionaire investor Nelson Peltz, to reduce costs.
The companys new chief executive, John L. Flannery, has pledged to accelerate cost cutting.
Mr. Flannery replaced Jeffrey R. Immelt in the role last month.
Indeed, further sales could be in the offing  Mr. Flannery is conducting a review of each of G.E.s businesses, and is expected to present his plans in November.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

ABB, which is based in Zurich, can use the deal to broaden its electrification business globally, especially in North America.
The unit it is buying, GE Industrial Solutions, provides circuit breakers, transformers and power systems equipment for industrial operations like data centers and oil or gas installations.
Home mortgages represent a majority of Chinas new household loans by value, adding to a surge in real estate prices.
Car loans have been growing even faster in percentage terms.
And credit card debt is now rising in a country that is otherwise dependent on cash or online transactions.
There are signs that China is moving on the fringes to contain mortgage lending, in part to tame housing costs.
In the past week, banks in Beijing began raising mortgage interest rates.
In a lengthening list of Chinas largest cities, banks are under instructions to discourage the use of personal loans for real estate speculation.
Six large cities established new home sales restrictions in recent days to cool off prices.
Surging property prices have helped keep consumer spending high even as Chinas growth has slowed, giving its economy a lift.
But more debt may not spur more growth  and could pinch the household finances of some.
China will get less of a kick out of consumer debt in the coming 18 months than it did in the past 18 months, said Louis Kuijs, an economist with Oxford Economics, a British research firm.
Some economists also worry that consumer loans may be a backdoor way for bloated companies to maintain or even expand their capacity.
Chinas domestic automakers  many of which are state owned and suffer from too many underused factories  have unleashed a blizzard of zero-interest car loans in the past two years, often through their own financing subsidiaries.
In that time, the majority of Chinese consumers began to pay for cars with credit instead of cash, according to J. D. Power and Associates, a global consulting firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be clear, most economists consider Chinas consumer credit splurge to be a good thing.
Chinese families are nowhere near the borrowing levels of spendthrift Americans, whose household debt is equal to more than three-quarters of the annual economic output of the United States.
In China, that measure is still less than half.
More Loans Than Growth Household debt is still lower in China compared to the size of the economy than in many countries, but home mortgages, car loans and credit card debt are also growing a lot faster than the Chinese economy now.
Household debt as a share of G.D.P.
100 % Britain U.S. 75 Japan Germany 50 China 25 0 11 12 13 14 15 16

Chinese leaders envision a time when their country, like the United States, derives a major chunk of its economic growth from people buying homes, cars and appliances.
To do that, Chinese households need better access to mortgages, credit cards and other ways to enhance their purchasing power.
Traditionally, Chinas state-controlled banking system focused on lending money to big state-owned companies.
Economists view household lending as an appealing alternative to having banks shovel more money into unprofitable, debt-ridden state firms that cannot be closed because they provide jobs to millions of workers.
So far, consumer lending has helped Chinese consumers weather the gradual slowdown in the countrys economic growth in recent years.
That is particularly true in places like Qiqihar, a city of five million in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang.
The local economy took a hit last year when a large steel mill closed a big blast furnace and overstaffed communal- and state-owned enterprises pushed out more than 40,000 workers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But even here, 500 miles north of Chinas border with North Korea, the local economy seems to be rebounding from a slump two years ago, when the national economy was looking shaky.
Walk out the front door of the recently completed high-speed rail station in Qiqihar and no fewer than 45 cranes are visible, erecting apartment towers and office buildings.
The citys economy grew at an annual rate of 6.4 percent in the first half of this year, up from 5.6 percent in the same period last year and nearly matching the national growth rate of 6.9 percent thus far this year.
Borrowing has been a big help, residents say.
Whereas apartments once sold for cash only, many people now offer down payments of between 20 percent and 30 percent and take out mortgages for the rest.
Certainly more people tend to borrow when purchasing apartments, said Fu Shiqiang, a real estate agent.
They may want to get a bigger apartment or do business.
Zhao Ying, another property agent, said he used a credit card at supermarkets and shopping malls and bought a $21,000 Toyota Vios sedan last year with a zero-interest loan.
He said he had bought his current apartment with cash but would do things differently next time.
I will definitely get a mortgage, Mr. Zhao said.
It is very convenient, and I could use the leftover money to do some business or investment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Li, the car saleswoman, and her husband built their wealth the traditional way.
They bought an inexpensive, two-bedroom apartment in 2003 when they married.
Her husband was given a small apartment by his employer.
They bought a third apartment as an investment.
Real estate prices have surged since then, and Ms. Li and her husband have cashed in.
They sold all three units and bought a spacious, three-bedroom apartment for themselves and spent $30,000 to remodel it.
They also bought a Volkswagen Tiguan and a Honda Accord.
Their mortgage helps support that lifestyle.
Ms. Li, who said nearly a third of her customers buy with credit, knows that they are not alone.
When I got my first car in 2006, almost no one in my local community had one, Ms. Li said.
Now the roads are packed, and its really hard to find a place to park.
Photo

Heres what to expect in the week ahead:

ADVERTISING

Advertisers, in throes of change, meet for week of talks.
Marketers and advertising types will gather this week in New York  mostly in the Times Square area  for the annual industry event known as Advertising Week.
Panels and presentations like Can Brands Actually Tell a Story in 6 Seconds?
and Realizing The Full Potential of Audience Targeting will aim to provide insights to an industry grappling with significant changes in technology, culture and consumer habits.
Other hot topics of discussion: the recent criticism of the ad targeting practices of Google and Facebook, diversity within the advertising world and how well the industry knows Americans after a presidential election that caught most of its leaders by surprise.
Sapna Maheshwari

ECONOMY

Mario Draghi will discuss monetary policy.
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, will provide an update on monetary policy during an appearance at the European Parliament in Brussels on Monday.
But Mr. Draghi is unlikely to offer much new information on the question that is occupying financial markets: when the central bank will ease its stimulus to the eurozone economy.
Mr. Draghi appears periodically before the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and answers questions from representatives, but usually does not use the venue to signal major policy changes.
Jack Ewing

Janet Yellen to speak about inflation.
Inflation, Uncertainty and Monetary Policy is not just the title of a speech that Janet L. Yellen, the Feds chairwoman, will deliver in Cleveland on Tuesday.
It is also a pretty good title for the dilemma that is confronting the Federal Reserve.
The Fed has undershot its target of 2 percent annual inflation for the last five years, and is likely to do so again this year.
In recent months, inflation has weakened further, and Fed officials dont really understand why (Ms. Yellen described it as a mystery last week).
At stake is whether the Fed should raise its benchmark interest rate in December, or wait for inflation to show signs of a rebound.
After Ms. Yellens speech, she will visit a community college job training program and participate in a discussion with students.
Ms. Yellen has previously visited job training programs in Chicago, Boston and Philadelphia, making the trip something of an annual tradition.
Binyamin Appelbaum

TRADE POLICY

A trade case could reshape the airplane industry.
The Department of Commerce is expected to issue an initial ruling Tuesday on imposing duties on the Canadian airplane maker Bombardier, after Boeing claimed that its Canadian rival had received government subsidies that allowed it to sell its products at unfairly low prices.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, whose constituents help to manufacture the Bombardier jet, have urged President Trump to intervene to stop the case, but have so far been unsuccessful.
If the United States rules in Boeings favor, it may impose duties making the Canadian aircraft substantially more expensive.
Ana Swanson

TECHNOLOGY

Google faces deadline to comply with an antitrust order.
Google must be in compliance with an order from European Union regulators to modify its business practices by Thursday.
The order was part of a decision in June by the European Commission that included a record fine of 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion).
Google faced a 90-day deadline to respond to the regulators demands or face penalties of up to 5 percent of the average daily global revenue of Alphabet, its parent company.
In recent weeks, Google submitted proposals to the commission aimed at ensuring that rival shopping services are treated the same way as its Google Shopping service, but the company has not publicly disclosed them.
James Kanter

ECONOMY

Bank of England marks two decades of independence.
The Bank of England will hold a conference on Thursday to mark 20 years since it was granted independence over monetary policy, giving the bank the ability to decide on interest rates without the government.
The central banks powers have since expanded to include the regulation of financial firms.
Speakers at the conference will discuss the application of central bank independence and whether the model works.
Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England for 10 years until 2013, has written that, independence is not an answer to all problems.
Amie Tsang
A similar philosophy is leading to a wide rollback of federal regulations on businesses under President Trump.
Under the commissions new approach, companies that come clean about misconduct, cooperate fully with the agency as it investigates and fix their internal problems potentially stand to save millions of dollars.
Penalties imposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission range from a few hundred thousand dollars into the hundreds of millions of dollars, depending on the severity of the offense and the size of the offender.
Mr. McDonald said in the draft speech and in an interview that the agency expected to reduce penalties by roughly 75 percent for those that fully cooperate.
In rare instances, he said, cases would be dropped altogether.
Late Friday, Mr. McDonald told The Times that he and the commissions chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, had changed their minds and decided against setting a 75 percent target.
Instead, he said, they will reduce penalties by a substantial amount case by case.
The commission already rewards companies for self-reporting misconduct and for cooperating in investigations.
But industry executives and lawyers have complained for years that they feel they are being severely penalized even when they assist the government.
Aitan Goelman, who was the commissions enforcement director until February, said the agencys small budget meant it had no choice but to rely in part on the institutions it regulated to help flag misconduct and other problems.
The C.F.T.C.
is so chronically and acutely under-resourced that its even more necessary to encourage cooperation, said Mr. Goelman, now a partner at the law firm Zuckerman Spaeder in Washington.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McDonald joined the commission in April after serving as an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, where he prosecuted Bronx gangs and former State Assemblyman Sheldon Silver, among others.
He said in the interview that the new enforcement strategy was born out of his experience as a federal prosecutor.
Providing clear and strong incentives for self-reporting by wrongdoers  whether they are bank traders or gang members  is a powerful weapon in law enforcements arsenal, Mr. McDonald said.
Photo

We need to give the relatively low-level criminals an incentive to cooperate with us, he said.
He argued that the new focus on self-reporting wasnt a softening of the commissions law enforcement strategy.
I dont want anybody to think were going light on companies, he said.
The emphasis is shifting as the Trump administration rethinks how the government regulates the private sector.
Many of the changes are intended to ease the perceived burdens on corporations and other businesses  not a surprise considering that many of Mr. Trumps cabinet members and senior advisers hail from Wall Street or previously ran large companies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When it comes to oversight of the financial industry, early indications point to a softening approach.
Monetary penalties imposed by the three main entities that police Wall Street  the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  were down sharply in the first half of 2017 compared with similar stretches in previous years.
That trend partly reflects the winding down of cases stemming from the financial crisis, but corporate defense lawyers and banking industry officials say they detect a more business-friendly environment in general.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, created by Congress in 1974 to oversee the frenzied trading of futures contracts, was considered a regulatory afterthought for decades.
With 706 full-time employees, including 178 in its enforcement division, it is far smaller than other law enforcement agencies.
In the Bill Clinton administration, the Treasury Department blocked the commissions efforts to more closely regulate complex financial instruments known as derivatives, whose popularity was exploding.
A decade later, the ubiquity of derivatives intensified the financial crisis because so many financial institutions were exposed to one another through the instruments.
Out of the ashes of the financial crisis, though, the commission took on a newly prominent role.
The Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law placed sweeping new regulatory powers in the agencys hands.
And a push from the agencys chairman at the time, Gary Gensler, to go after bigger, splashier cases led the commission to a yearslong investigation into the manipulation of a widely used interest-rate benchmark known as Libor.
Some of the worlds largest banks spent years stiff-arming the agency before grudgingly agreeing to cooperate once it became clear that the regulator was making progress.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Libor investigation eventually turned up evidence of widespread misconduct.
More than a dozen international banks admitted wrongdoing and paid billions of dollars in penalties to the commission and other regulators in the United States and overseas.
Bank executives argued that the Libor case, and others that followed, were examples of regulatory overkill, and that the length of the investigations and the severity of the penalties were uncalled-for.
Wall Street came to view the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a major source of frustration.
Mr. Trump named Mr. Giancarlo, who previously spent years as an executive in the brokerage industry, as the commissions chairman.
Mr. Giancarlo, a free-market devotee who is respected on both sides of the political aisle, vowed to continue to make law enforcement cases a priority.
But he also noted that securing headline-grabbing cases should not be a goal unto itself.
Mr. McDonald echoed that sentiment.
We at the C.F.T.C.
are committed to working together with the companies and individuals we regulate  transparently and in partnership  to identify and prosecute wrongdoing that has occurred, and to stop future wrongdoing before it starts, he initially planned to say in Mondays speech.
But late Friday, Mr. McDonald said he had decided to delete references in his speech to that partnership with the industry, out of concern that such language would come across as overly conciliatory.
Mr. McDonald is also aiming to shorten the duration of investigations so that they will take months, not years.
The first settlements in the Libor investigation, which got underway in 2008, took place in 2012.
Representatives of the financial industry said the new tone was a welcome shift from an era when industry perceived the commission as being hellbent on extracting severe punishments.
Theyre not settling cases with Al Qaeda, said Stephen Obie, a former enforcement official with the agency who now represents financial institutions as a partner at the law firm Jones Day.
Under Mr. Giancarlo, he added, the commission has adopted a more deliberate approach.
In this case as well, the content started with the president.
As Seth Meyers, the host of NBCs Late Night, told Vox recently, The White House has the best writers room in comedy.
Where football is any given Sunday, late-night comedy is every single weeknight.
And with its harder charge into anti-Trump political humor, it has sailed into what the former New York Times writer Bill Carter called absolutely uncharted territory.
I checked in with Mr. Carter not only because we are old colleagues but also because he is the nations foremost student of late-night entertainment.
He literally wrote the book on it  that is, The Late Shift, the classic yarn about the war between David Letterman and Jay Leno to get Johnny Carsons job on the Tonight show.
(He followed it up with The War For Late Night, about the Conan OBrien debacle at NBC.)
Theres no example of any kind of sustained attack like this on a politician, Mr. Carter told me last week.
Theres a horde of writers writing jokes about Donald Trump every single night.
(And, he said, he wasnt even counting the weekly shows like Saturday Night Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.)
This has brought about an abundance of incisive political satire.
But it has also come with new complications that threaten to kill the fun, through blowback on the pro-Trump right and the rigid expectations of an anti-Trump audience that wants Resistance TV every night.
Mr. Colbert bumped up against the latter when he hosted the Emmys last week and decided to do a bit with the former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer.
His writing team from The Late Show knew it might not be well-received in some quarters and debated the idea ahead of time, people familiar with the deliberations told me (they spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to be seen as violating the sanctity of the writing room).
Photo

By normal comedic standards, the idea seemed pretty basic: Put Mr. Spicer behind a mock White House lectern and have him make a fake boast about the size of the Emmy audience  evoking the false claim he made about Mr. Trumps inaugural crowd.
The sketch fast became heckler bait.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Is it supposed to be comical that the former White House spokesman is now tacitly admitting that he lied to the American people?
a CNN White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins, wrote in a tweet.
Entertainment Weekly quoted Julia Louis-Dreyfus as saying, Theres nothing funny about Sean Spicer and what his actions have been and what his behavior has been about.
Period.
The gag was woefully off-kilter with Mr. Colberts brand of principled, political comedy.
Much of his criticism revolved around Mr. Spicers role in forwarding the presidents anti-press, alternative facts strategy.
Now, he was being attacked for having abetted Spicers image overhaul, as The Timess Frank Bruni put it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Spicer was a burning ember for every comedic set of hands  or lips  he touched.
James Corden, the Late Late Show host who follows Mr. Colbert, felt compelled to apologize after a picture circulated of him giving Mr. Spicer a peck on the cheek at an Emmy party.
Understandably, some people have been disappointed by this photo, Mr. Corden told his audience.
In truth, Im disappointed by it as well.
Yet while Mr. Colbert and Mr. Corden were fielding criticism last week, Jimmy Kimmel was riding a wave of Resistance support, because of the way he eviscerated the latest Republican health care bill on his show.
It became a big news story in its own right because it was such an unusual situation: Republicans pushing the plan, including the president, were facing their strongest opposition from a late-night talk show host on ABC.
Mr. Kimmel has a personal connection to the debate  his son has a congenital heart condition that, Mr. Kimmel has said, would potentially go untreated under the recently proposed new health care laws if the boy did not have a wealthy father.
The response from the right was intense.
But where that might have led to a course correction in the past, as it so often had, Mr. Kimmel pressed on for three nights in a row.
Were at the point now where Mr. Fallon has been widely criticized for being too apolitical  and was eviscerated for playfully mussing Mr. Trumps hair.
He adjusted his show accordingly, a shift for Tonight, which is, after all, the original late-night talk show.
Leno was the guy who was most likely to be down the middle with his commentary, Mr. Carter said, referring to Jay Leno, Mr. Fallons predecessor, who led the late-night ratings through most of his 22-year tenure.
He was more or less following the tradition of his own predecessor, Johnny Carson, who made plenty of fun of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
But, as Mr. Carter put it, Carson was judicious about his criticism.
Mr. Lenos direct competitor, David Letterman, was known in his later years for skewering former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, but for most of his tenure, he was not particularly political.
Dave would have said, Im just an idiot, I dont really know anything, said Mr. Carter, who now works as a media analyst for CNN.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And now, Mr. Carter said, Colbert and Seth Meyers, they are like the voice of the resistance.
One explanation, he said, is that late-night comedy has always played off the news, and these days, all of the news is about Mr. Trump.
Then there is the content of that news, and the reactions it so often causes.
In calling Mr. Trumps response to the white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., shameful during an opening monologue in August, Mr. Fallon said it was my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being.
For his part, Mr. Colbert is being true to the left-leaning political comedy he practiced, in character, on his old show, The Colbert Report, on Comedy Central, where he and Jon Stewart initially set the new tone were seeing today.
Yet through the first half of the election campaign, in his new place on CBS, he did not embrace his politics.
As his show struggled, critics and late-night insiders debated whether CBS was restraining him or he was restraining himself.
His increasing turn toward Trump jokes as the campaign wore on gave Mr. Colbert and CBS what they needed: ratings, which are, after all, network televisions answer to liquid courage.
Mr. Trump doesnt seem likely to rob Mr. Colbert and his cohorts of material any time soon.
Detailed plots involving prostitution, rape and masturbation are also forbidden.
So are displays of unhealthy marital values, which the guidelines catalog as affairs, one-night stands, partner swapping and, simply but vaguely, sexual liberation.
Despite the efforts of censors, the internet has long been the most freewheeling of Chinas mass media, a platform where authors and artists  as well as entertainment studios  could reach audiences largely free of the Propaganda Departments traditional controls on broadcasting, publishing, cinema and stage.
But the new restrictions  which expanded and updated a set of prohibitions issued five years ago  reflect an ambitious effort by President Xi Jinpings government to impose discipline and rein in the web.
They were issued by the China Netcasting Services Association, which includes as members more than 600 companies, including the official Xinhua News Agency, the social media giants Sina and Tencent, the dominant search engine Baidu and the news aggregator Jinri Toutiao.
Video

David Bandurski, an analyst and editor for the University of Hong Kongs China Media Project, said the associations rules created the illusion of industry consensus as the companys acquiesced to what party officials call self-discipline.
Many of these companies are private, so its important for the leadership to have a means of bringing them together and creating a means of applying pressure on the collective, he wrote in an email.
It is a tactic of co-option.
Writers, filmmakers, podcasters and others attributed the guidelines and other measures to a new prim and paternalistic ideology taking shape under Mr. Xi, who has called on party members to be paragons of morality in pursuit of what he calls the China Dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many also attributed the tightening of controls to official nervousness ahead of a major Communist Party congress scheduled for October.
The congress is expected to reshuffle the countrys leadership and consolidate President Xis already formidable power.
I feel like people say all the time that after the big congress, things will be O.K., said Fan Popo, a documentary filmmaker whose work has run afoul of online censorship because it explores the countrys conflicted views about homosexuality.
But then he noted how online censorship has also spiked ahead of important state holidays and following unexpected events like the death of the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo.
Its still going on, he said, and its getting worse.
In June, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announced a new rating system for online bookstores and publishers based on criteria that included upholding moral values.
The powerful Cyberspace Administration  the ultimate authority over what is online in China  also shut down dozens of blogs and social media accounts for covering celebrity news and gossip that month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Regulators also ordered two popular video streaming sites, AcFun and Bilibili, to stop showing hundreds of foreign television programs, while other state agencies issued a new rule this month prohibiting video sites from streaming even domestically produced shows without a license.
That essentially subjects online programs  often considered edgier  to the same restrictions governing what is broadcast on television, which critics say is dominated by trifles and propaganda.
The directive also ordered online producers to submit plans for creating new dramas between now and 2021 that praise the party, the nation and heroes so as to set a good example.
Photo

The new industry regulations provoked outrage  online, of course.
The countrys leading scholar of sexuality, Li Yinhe, wrote in a scathing commentary on Sina Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter, that the new regulations violated two basic freedoms.
The first is a citizens constitutionally protected right to freedom of creativity; the second is the constitutionally protected right to sexual freedom of sexual minorities.
When Ms. Li called on people to work toward abolishing screening and censorship rules, her posts were deleted, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the online discussion has focused on the new prohibitions of sexual content and the inclusion of homosexuality among a list of abnormal sexual relations that also included incest and sexual assault.
Critics said the regulation appeared to contradict the governments own position on homosexuality, which it decriminalized in 1997 and removed from an official list of mental disorders in 2001.
Chinas censorship agencies exercise overlapping jurisdiction over the internet and often employ policies that create confusion.
The result has been a layered system of control that begins with self-censorship by those who create online content, followed by policing by web platforms, which are often private enterprises, and finally, when necessary, intervention by government regulators or the police.
Some regulations are explicit  no depiction of killing endangered species or underage drinking, for example.
Others are imprecise.
One, for example, prohibits blurring the lines between truth and falsity, good and evil, beauty and ugliness.
Critics say the rules are meant to be so vague that the authorities can justify blocking anything, as circumstances dictate.
The tightening of content censorship is the general trend, but for content creators, they never know where exactly the lines lie, said Gao Ming, who until recently produced a satirical podcast on current affairs called Radio HiLight.
Like others, Mr. Gao acknowledged softening his commentaries to avoid trouble, trying to work around, or one step ahead of, the censors.
For profit or in pursuit of art, many performers and producers have learn to live with the partys limitations.
Ms. Song, the writer, works mostly in a literary genre known as danmei that has become hugely popular among young women.
Taking its inspiration from Japanese stories and manga, it typically involves homoerotic romances.
Songs work is often serialized, with readers paying for new chapters as they are posted on one of the biggest publishing sites, Jinjiang Literature City.
If I want to publish it, she said of her work, then I need to follow the rules.
Ms. Song, who lives in Wuhan, an enormous city in central China, said some of her chapters have been blocked because sensitive keywords appeared in high frequency.
Usually, she then edits enough of those words out to get her writing past the censors and to her readers.
Ms. Song said she was not particularly worried about the new regulations.
Authors cannot use their works to encourage or incite criminal acts, especially among younger readers, she said.
Literature, after all, has a guiding effect.
The Treasurys schedule of financing this week includes Mondays regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.03 percent.
The rate on the six-month issue was 1.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.97 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues, valued at $50 million or more, are scheduled for pricing this week:

MONDAY

Florida Board of Education Lottery, $290 million of revenue bonds.
Competitive.
Florida Department of Environmental Protection, $75 million of tax allocation bonds.
Competitive.
TUESDAY

Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, $514 million of revenue bonds.
Competitive.
Palm Beach County School Board, Fla., $149 million of certificates of participation.
Competitive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Washington, $435 million of general obligation unlimited tax bonds.
Competitive.
WEDNESDAY

Minnesota, $820 million of general obligation unlimited tax bonds.
Competitive.
But times change, and Mr. Palen is now taking a more antagonistic approach.
All Types Welcome is a condemnation of blood donation rules set by the Food and Drug Administration that prohibit most gay or bisexual men from giving; before donating, they have to forgo same-sex sexual encounters for at least a year, a contentious precaution resulting from concerns about H.I.V.
Its exclusion, and its ridiculous, and its discriminatory, Ms. Lepore said in an interview.
Mark Burg, the producer who has helped steer the Saw franchise, was even more blunt.
We want this policy changed, he said.
An F.D.A.
spokeswoman, Lyndsay Meyer, noted that the celibacy rule, enacted in 2015, replaced a more restrictive policy.
While acknowledging at the time that the change to a 12-month deferral was less than hoped for by some, the F.D.A.
considered this to be a first step, Ms. Meyer said, adding that studies are underway to help inform further changes to policy.
The Red Cross, the nations largest blood supplier, has also drawn fire for its approach to transgender donors.
Until recently, federal guidelines recommended that trans people be required to register at blood centers under the gender they were assigned at birth.
Photo

The Red Cross believes all potential blood donors should be treated with fairness, equality and respect, Jodi D. Sheedy, a Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an email.
She added, Accurate donor histories and medically supported donor deferral criteria are critical to blood supply safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palen is one of Hollywoods savviest marketers, and his latest campaign reflects several trends, including a focus on diversity.
In the past, Mr. Palen has cast young women (most often white) as nurse mascots for the Saw blood drives.
Now we have different races, genders, ages and sexual orientations, he said.
Joining Ms. Lepore and Mr. Ross as twisted nurses are people like Nyakim Gatwech, a Sudanese model; a YouTube and Instagram star named Mykie; and the sexagenarian event producer Susanne Bartsch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While inclusion remains far from Hollywoods strength, many consumer brands have started to loudly ring the representation bell.
Last year, for instance, CoverGirl named its first cover boy and made a beauty blogger, Nura Afia, its first hijab-wearing cosmetics ambassador.
It is also notable that Mr. Palen is tapping into rage culture.
Hollywood marketers are mostly allergic to controversy, but nothing lights a fire on social media like indignation, and a growing number of advertisers are trying to spark thought-provoking discussions.
The North Face, for instance, indirectly references President Trumps plans for a Mexico border wall with its new Walls Are Meant for Climbing brand campaign.
The topical approach can backfire.
Just ask Pepsi and Kendall Jenner.
Its easy to be provocative, Mr. Palen said.
Its less easy to be provocative in a way that inspires people to see your movie.
The Saw nurses were an early example of what Hollywood types now like to call world building.
There are no major nurse characters in the movies (some of which are also not particularly bloody).
Rather, Mr. Palens creations are meant to add a layer of immersion for fans.
The first Saw nurse was a Lionsgate executive; Mr. Palen took her photo in his backyard and posted the image online to promote the blood drive.
Maybe a few horror fan sites covered it, he said.
There was no such thing as going viral back then.
In a snapshot of how powerful the internet has come as a marketing tool, Lionsgate now has roughly 420 million followers on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
To gain additional reach for the All Types Welcome effort, Mr. Palen recruited the eight social media stars.
Everyones making content, everyones a creator, everyone has a microphone, he said.
So to have the nurse campaign play in that space and have personalities feel some ownership in the campaign felt like a great way to evolve.
And no more backyard shoots for Mr. Palen, who took over a cavernous stage for two days  complete with a D.J.
and an open bar  this time around.
As the Pharrell Williams song Marilyn Monroe played toward the end of the second day, Ms. Lepore teetered on a stack of metallic boxes in white spike heels.
Sexy, fetish nurse doll is how Mr. Palen had described her look.
Amazing, he murmured, standing on tiptoe to take her picture.
When Mr. Palen was done, the 16 people in the room clapped, and Ms. Lepore did a little curtsy.
Chris Aronson, Foxs president of domestic distribution, noted that The Secret Service had the benefit of Valentines Day falling on its opening Saturday, which undoubtedly boosted results.
It was also Presidents Day weekend, and so Im really happy that The Golden Circle  with no holiday boost  opened to a bigger number, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You also need to look at the global story, Mr. Aronson continued.
There is significant growth overseas.
Indeed, The Golden Circle vastly improved on the results for its franchise predecessor in countries like Britain, Australia and Russia.
In total, The Golden Circle collected $61 million at the foreign box office over the weekend.
At home, second place for the weekend went to It (Warner Bros.), which collected about $30 million, for an astounding three-week domestic total of $266.3 million.
This movie has turned into the definition of a zeitgeist hit, said Jeff Goldstein, Warners president of domestic distribution.
The worldwide total for It now stands at $478 million.
But Warner stumbled with The Lego Ninjago Movie, which arrived in third place with $21.2 million in ticket sales  sharply less than box office analysts had predicted going into the weekend.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It was a much younger audience than we were hoping for, Mr. Goldstein said, noting that 46 percent of the Ninjago audience was under 18.
The movie played in 4,047 domestic theaters and cost roughly $70 million to make, not including marketing.
The animated Ninjago, based on a ninja-themed line of toys, is part of a Lego-based cinematic universe that Warner has called a business pillar, with additional original installments and sequels exploring different genres planned for the next decade.
But the future of the Lego movie franchise is now a serious question.
The first Lego movie arrived to a whopping $69 million in ticket sales in 2014.
A Batman-themed follow-up had $53 million earlier this year.
And now comes Ninjago with $21.2 million.
The free-fall does not bode well for The Lego Movie 2, which is scheduled for release in 2019.
Many people in Hollywood say the reason for declining returns is obvious: Warner, in search of franchises, released too many Lego movies too quickly.
Ninjago may also have suffered from lackluster reviews, niche subject matter and a feeling among consumers that the property best lives on television; Cartoon Network has found success with the animated series Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu.
Also of note over the weekend:

Battle of the Sexes (Fox Searchlight), set in the 1970s and starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell as tennis rivals, arrived in 21 theaters in seven cities and took in about $525,000, a solid result.
Results were also strong for Victoria and Abdul, which was released by Focus Features in four theaters and collected $152,000.
The film stars Judi Dench as Queen Victoria and Ali Fazal as a young Indian associate.
Stronger (Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions), the well-reviewed story of Jeff Bauman, who lost both his legs above the knee in the terrorist bombings of the Boston Marathon in 2013, arrived on 574 screens and collected $1.75 million.
Jake Gyllenhaal plays Mr. Bauman.
The debate over any visit proved irrelevant, however, when Mr. Trump weighed in on the subject with a tweet on Saturday.
The response from players was swift.
Several players in both leagues condemned the announcement, in a throwback of sorts to the days when political statements by star athletes like Muhammad Ali, Bill Russell, Tommie Smith and John Carlos were more common.
Potentially the boldest response to Mr. Trump came from the Warriors chief rival, LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers:

Mr. Curry was also supported by Chris Paul, the Houston Rockets point guard, who also happens to be the president of the N.B.A.s players association.
While Mr. Curry has yet to respond, his teammate, the outspoken Draymond Green, unsurprisingly weighed in.
As an organization, the Warriors were far more politically reserved than Mr. Green, saying in a statement, In lieu of a visit to the White House, we have decided that well constructively use our trip to the nations capital in February to celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion  the values that we embrace as an organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No stranger to controversy involving Mr. Trump, Jemele Hill, the ESPN host, also supported Mr. Curry.
Ms. Hill was recently embroiled in a debate centered on her reference to the president as a white supremacist, and his offices call for her firing.
Mr. Trump has found just as swift a response from players and personalities connected to the N.F.L.
over his comments about players like Colin Kaepernick who have sat or knelt during the national anthem to protest the treatment of black people by the police.
At a rally in Alabama, Trump said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these N.F.L.
owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.
Hes fired!
Hes fired!
Among the players to respond to Trumps statements was Chris Conley, a wide receiver for the Kansas City Chiefs.
In a series of strongly-worded tweets, Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, said he was fine with being fired for what he believes in and rejected the labels put on players by the president.
Richard Sherman, the outspoken Seattle Seahawks cornerback, said:

The topic seemed to elicit opinions from all over, with Sean Combs, the businessman and music mogul, asking N.F.L.
players to make a statement before tomorrows games.
And none other than Ed Asner, the 87-year-old actor, tackled the subject.
Amid all the chaos online, Ayesha Curry, the wife of Stephen, took the high road in the matter, refocusing the discussion on bigger events going on around the world.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
The Fed chairman also plays a leading role in financial regulation and will have to navigate calls by Republican leaders, including Mr. Trump, to roll back some of the rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.
Ms. Yellen was a principal architect of those more stringent regulations and has said the financial system is much stronger as a result.
Mr. Trump has criticized many of the banking rules, saying they are excessive and impeding economic growth.
The candidates to replace Ms. Yellen all share those concerns to varying degrees.
Given the high stakes, Mr. Trumps decision has become a source of intrigue in political and economic circles this year.
There is also a growing sense of urgency: Both Ms. Yellen and her predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, were nominated in October, leaving ample time for the Senate to hold confirmation hearings.
Mr. Trump has said he does not plan to make a decision until later in the year, leaving little time for the Senate to act given the tight calendar.
Aides say he is not yet focused on the search.
Additional candidates could ultimately be considered.
The administration officials and the other person with knowledge of the search requested anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the job in question.
A White House spokeswoman had no immediate comment, and Mr. Cohn, Mr. Taylor and Mr. Warsh did not respond to requests for comment.
A Fed spokeswoman said Ms. Yellen and Mr. Powell declined to comment.
The next Fed chairman is likely to begin the four-year term in an atmosphere of relative tranquillity during one of the longest economic expansions in American history.
But the Fed is confronting a number of difficult issues.
One question is whether it can do more to increase economic growth.
Another is whether the Fed will be ready for the next economic downturn.
In addition to a Fed chairman, Mr. Trump also must fill four open seats on the seven-member board.
That means he can immediately appoint a majority of Fed governors, putting his stamp on the institution.
He has made just one choice so far, nominating Randal K. Quarles to be the Feds vice chairman for supervision.
That nomination is pending, though Mr. Quarles is expected to be confirmed.
Photo

Mr. Trump has deputized four officials to lead the selection process for the Feds next chairman, said one person familiar with the search: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; two of Mr. Cohns aides on the National Economic Council, Jeremy Katz and Andrew Olmem; and John DeStefano, the White House personnel director.
Mr. Cohn, who initially participated in conversations about the potential nominees for Fed governor seats, has removed himself from the discussions about the central banks next chairman, given that he is a potential candidate for the job, said several people with knowledge of his involvement.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Cohn left the No.
2 position at Goldman Sachs to join Mr. Trumps administration as head of the National Economic Council.
He quickly developed an easy rapport with the president, who is said to value Mr. Cohns knowledge of markets and finance.
Mr. Cohn has played a major role in the administrations push for a tax-cut bill; he also has been a moderating voice in internal debates on issues like restricting free trade.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In a July interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump described Mr. Cohn and Ms. Yellen as candidates for the Fed job.
The next month, Mr. Cohn publicly criticized the presidents response to a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, creating tension.
But the two men have reestablished a comfort level, and Mr. Cohn remains a candidate.
Mr. Cohn is a strong advocate for easing financial regulation, which he argues is unnecessarily impeding economic activity.
But he has rarely spoken publicly about monetary policy; the other four candidates whose names are known all have significant experience with monetary policy.
Mr. Warsh, who served on the Feds board between 2006 and 2011, was a member of Mr. Trumps business advisory council and has informally advised him on a range of economic issues.
That may be a significant advantage, given the presidents demonstrated preference for people he knows and trusts.
Mr. Warsh is married to Jane Lauder, the daughter of Ronald Lauder, a friend and occasional adviser to the president.
Mr. Warsh is a lawyer by training and a banker by trade before entering public service in 2002 as a member of President George W. Bushs National Economic Council.
After leaving the Fed, he joined the Hoover Institution, a public-policy think tank run by Stanford, as a visiting fellow.
He has been a vocal critic of the Feds economic stimulus campaign under both Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Yellen, arguing it has been ineffective and may have dangerous side effects.
At a Hoover conference in May, he said the Fed needs to be aggressive and powerful in responding to financial crises, but remain more traditional when the market is not in crisis.
Mr. Taylor, a colleague of Mr. Warshs at Hoover, has offered a similar critique of Fed policy.
Mr. Taylor served in the Treasury Department during the Bush administration but he is best known as an academic economist.
He wrote a formulaic approach to monetary policy, known as the Taylor Rule, which suggests that the Fed should be raising rates more quickly.
He also has closely advised House Republicans on legislation that would require the Fed to adopt such a policy rule.
Mr. Powell, the only Republican on the Feds board, is regarded as a centrist voice on both monetary policy and regulatory issues.
In internal discussions and public remarks, he has sometimes pushed back against the most ardent supporters of the Feds postcrisis stimulus campaign.
Similarly, he has sometimes raised questions about changes in financial regulation.
But on both fronts he has consistently voted with the majority.
A Treasury Department official under President George H.W.
Bush, Mr. Powell then built a fortune as a partner at the Carlyle Group, a private equity firm, before he was nominated to the Fed by President Obama in 2012.
His experience at the Fed, and his connections both in the financial world and in the Republican Party, could make him an attractive candidate.
But his track record suggests he may be less likely than some of the other candidates to press for dramatic changes in monetary and regulatory policies.
He added, The whole idea that diversity improves workplace output, its not scientifically decided that thats true.
Mr. Damore filed a labor complaint against Google in August and said more than 20 people had reached out about joining together for a class-action suit about systemic discrimination against men.
He is represented by Harmeet Dhillon, a local firebrand lawyer.
Its become fashionable in Silicon Valley for people like James, a white man, to be put into a category of less desirable for promotion and advancement, Ms. Dhillon said.
Some companies have hiring goals like Well give you a bonus if youre a hiring manager and you hire 70 percent women to this organization.
Thats illegal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Google declined to comment.
Two men who worked at Yahoo sued the company for gender discrimination last year.
Their lawyer, Jon Parsons, said the female leadership  Yahoos chief executive was Marissa Mayer, before Verizon bought the company  had gone too far in trying to hire and promote women.
He tied the suit into todays women-in-tech movement.
When youre on a mission from God to set the world straight, its easy to go too far, Mr. Parsons said.
There was no control over women hiring women.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He said that his clients, Greg Anderson and Scott Ard, had faced gender discrimination in Yahoos media teams and that other teams like cars were headed by women, which to Mr. Parsons was a sign of problems.
No eyebrows are going to rise if a woman heads up fashion, Mr. Parsons said.
But were talking about women staffing positions  things like autos  where it cannot be explained other than manipulation.
Those leading Silicon Valleys gender equality push said they were astonished that just as the movement was having an impact, it opened up an even more radical mens rights perspective.
Its exhausting, said Joelle Emerson, who runs Paradigm, a company that designs diversity strategies.
Its created divides that I didnt anticipate.
One radical fringe that is growing is Mgtow, which stands for Men Going Their Own Way and pronounced MIG-tow.
Mgtow aims for total male separatism, including forgoing children, avoiding marriage and limiting involvement with women.
Its message boards are brimming with activity from Silicon Valley, Mr. Altizer said.
Photo

Cassie Jaye, who lives in Marin County and made a documentary about the mens rights movement called The Red Pill, said that the tech world and the mens rights community had snowballed together and that the rise in the number of people in Mgtow is new.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On the Mgtow message boards, members discuss work (Ever work for a woman?
Roll up your sleeves and share your horror story), technology (The stuff girlfriends and wives cant stand  computers, games, consoles) and dating (mostly best practices to avoid commitment).
I think there are a lot of guys living this lifestyle without naming it, and then they find Mgtow, said Ms. Jaye, who calls herself a former feminist.
Mr. Altizer leads Bay Area Fathers Rights, a monthly support group for men to talk about the issues they uniquely face.
He became interested in the community after a divorce and said his eyes were opened to how few rights men have.
As for the numbers of women in tech, the effort for parity is absurd, he said.
Ive been on the hiring side for years, Mr. Altizer said, adding that he is not currently hiring people.
It would be nice to have women, but you cannot find applicants.
But this strategy means that Equifax is entrenched in consumers financial lives whether they like it or not  or even know it.
Equifaxs approach amplified the consequences of the breach, reported this month, that exposed the personal information for up to 143 million people.
Ordinary people are not Equifaxs customers.
They are the companys product.
The Big Three credit bureaus, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, collect 4.5 billion pieces of data each month to feed into their credit reports.
From birth to death, the record grows.
Decades worth of addresses and identifying information, including drivers licenses and Social Security numbers.
Utility accounts like telephone and cable subscriptions.
Criminal records, medical debt, as well as rental and eviction histories.
Equifaxs records on any given individual, scattered throughout dozens of databases, typically stretch across hundreds or thousands of pages.
Equifax now faces a consumer backlash over its response to the hacking attack.
The anger has been intensified by the actions of three senior executives who sold shares worth $1.8 million in the days after the breach was discovered.
The stock, which had tripled in the last five years, is down 30 percent since the attack.
Equifax said the executives were unaware of the breach when they sold their stock.
Customers have been less vocal, given their dependency on the bureaus.
Financial firms readily hand over their data because they rely on the credit reports  and the scores they are used to generate  to size up potential customers.
The data, over which Equifax and the other bureaus have a stranglehold, is one of the best predictors of risk.
We dont really have a choice to opt out of the credit report system, said Pete Mills, senior vice president of residential policy at the Mortgage Bankers Association, which represents some of Equifaxs biggest clients, home loan providers.
We spend a lot of money trying to protect our customers, and then we give that data to others, like the credit bureaus.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifax said it was supporting customers who may have been affected by the data breach.
We value our customers and have been in close communication with them, said Wyatt Jefferies, a company spokesman.
Under Mr. Smith, Equifax has been creative in developing new markets and services.
The company expanded globally, often by acquiring local competitors; it now operates in 24 countries.
New analytic products have been a priority.
Equifax has a team of mathematicians who mine its data to develop algorithms predicting how consumers will behave.
Those insights are sold to companies like lenders.
At a financial conference last year, Mr. Smith described a new system that searched four billion public tweets for keywords like car and automotive lease.
It paired the tweets with a persons Equifax credit file.
In real time, the credit bureau could identify potential buyers and provide its customer, a company selling car leases, with everything it wanted to know about those people.
The corporate culture shifted under Mr. Smith and became more focused on increasing profit, said David Galas, who left Equifax in 2011 after 13 years.
It was run a little more like a sports team, said Mr. Galas, who served most recently as a vice president.
You immediately had to get out there and perform, and if you didnt perform, you were cut.
Equifaxs roots as a behind-the-scenes data collector stretch back to 1899, when it began as the Retail Credit Company.
Grocers and other retailers kept notes on their customers to determine who could be trusted to run tabs and pay them.
Two brothers in Atlanta went door to door to collect that information.
They compiled it into a publication called The Merchants Guide and sold annual subscriptions for $25.
The company and its competitors swept through the country, employing thousands of investigators to investigate peoples lives.
Their reports were widely available for sale to anyone except the individuals themselves.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the 1960s, the credit bureaus secrecy and unchecked power prompted alarm within Congress.
The hearings that followed exposed the more unsavory practices, like including unverified gossip about peoples marital indiscretions in their reports.
The bureaus amassed personal dossiers so detailed that J. Edgar Hoover was covetous.
The F.B.I.
is constantly in our files, an executive at a credit bureau testified.
Congress responded by passing the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which created some safeguards.
For the first time, people were allowed to review their own files and report errors.
Photo

But the strongest agencies just kept growing, often by acquiring rivals.
By the late 1990s, three big national players were left.
With little competition, the bureaus saw an opening for a new sales market: capitalizing on consumers curiosity and concern about their credit files.
In 2001, Equifax teamed up with Fair Isaac to let people buy their three-digit FICO credit scores.
Today, Equifax charges people $40 to see all three of their reports.
(Consumers are entitled to one free credit report from each of the bureaus annually.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The companys consumer business generates $400 million in annual sales, much of it through resellers.
Using Equifax data, LifeLock sells identity theft protection, a booming business since the breach.
Such sales, while strong, are eclipsed by the money Equifax makes from human resources products.
It entered the market in 2007 with the purchase of Talx, which verified employment for companies.
Mr. Smith viewed Talx as a beachhead into a lucrative new data field: payroll information.
When Equifax bought the company, Talx held 142 million employment records.
The unit now has 300 million.
Its been a nearly 10-year investment, but now its paying off for Equifax, said Brett Horn, an investment analyst at Morningstar.
They have something their rivals dont.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A few expansion efforts fizzled, especially in tightly regulated markets.
In 1995, Equifax teamed with AT&T to develop health care products, including electronic patient records.
The effort quietly died a year later, right around the time that Congress passed a strict medical privacy bill.
As the industry expanded, safety became a sales pitch.
We have been blessed in our rich history to never have a major breach, Mr. Smith said at a financial conference shortly after joining the company in 2005.
In one document, Equifax called itself the trusted stewards of data.
If youre not ahead of security risk, the pitch read, youre behind it.
After previous smaller breaches, the bureaus have been reluctant to offer consumers the strongest form of protection, credit freezes, free of charge.
Freezing a file prevents new credit lines from being opened, which locks out identity thieves.
After Experians servers were attacked two years ago, exposing personal details on 15 million T-Mobile customers, consumer advocates urged both companies to provide free credit freezes at all three bureaus.
Doing that would set a terrible precedent and haunt all future breaches, Experians senior vice president of government affairs and public policy said in a response intended for executives at his company and T-Mobile.
The reply was accidentally emailed to one of the advocates.
Giving in to the demand will not satiate their hatred for Experian, he added.
Instead, he suggested responding with a letter explaining why fraud alerts were good enough.
We could turn our response into a good P.R.
approach if done right, he wrote.
Experian said in a statement that the opinions in the email did not reflect the companys position.
The company said it had provided affected individuals with free credit monitoring and credit freezes at Experian at no charge.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Equifaxs own response to its breach has been marred by blunders.
An Equifax website was supposed to allow customers to determine if they had been affected; it didnt work correctly.
The companys Twitter account accidentally steered people toward a fake site.
And when millions of consumers went to freeze their Equifax credit files, some had to pay for the service.
After people protested, the company waived the fees.
From a business perspective, it will be paramount for Equifax to keep its customers  financial firms and other big companies  happy.
Six of Americas largest financial services companies  American Express, Bank of America, Capital One, Citibank, Discover and JPMorgan Chase  declined to comment on whether the breach would alter their relationships with Equifax.
Walmart, the nations largest private employer, and Kroger, the second biggest, said they were comfortable continuing to send Equifax their payroll data.
Still, some  mainly smaller organizations  are beginning to rethink their relationship with the company.
Summit Credit Union in Madison, Wis., filed a lawsuit against Equifax.
The firm is seeking compensation for the economic harm that it said it was likely to suffer from the breach.
This situation has caused us all to pause, said Sandi Papenfuhs, senior vice president of consumer lending at another firm, First Tech Federal Credit Union in Beaverton, Ore.
Anytime someone is not securing member data to the same degree that we do and we expect, we will take action on that relationship accordingly.
But her credit union will continue to send Equifax data.
Withholding information would only hurt consumers, she explained, because it would create an incomplete picture of their credit history.
I am unaware of a way to just stop, from any individual lender perspective, Ms. Papenfuhs said, and not cause consumer harm.
As publishers grasp for new revenue streams, a try-anything approach has taken hold.
Time Inc. has a new streaming TV show, Paws & Claws, that features viral videos of animals.
Hearst started a magazine with the online rental service Airbnb.
Increasingly, the longtime core of the business  the print product  is an afterthought, overshadowed by investments in live events, podcasts, video, and partnerships with outside brands.
Photo

The changes represent one of the most fundamental shifts in decades for a business that long relied on a simple formula: glossy volumes thick with high-priced ads.
Sentimentality is probably the biggest enemy for the magazine business, David Carey, the president of Hearst Magazines, said in an interview.
You have to embrace the future.
At a time of belt-tightening, celebrity editors, with their big salaries and expensive tastes, are increasingly pass.
Budget-minded executives at publishers like Hearst and Cond Nast are looking more critically at requests for six-figure photo shoots and $5-a-word writers.
The timing doesnt really surprise me, said Tom Harty, president and chief operating officer at Meredith, which publishes Better Homes & Gardens and Family Circle.
Magazines, Mr. Harty said, often circulate upcoming budget numbers in September.
When you start thinking about the revenue stream for the following year, he said in an interview, it must lead to some cost discussion.
In some ways, the spate of departures was a coincidence.
Mr. Carter, 68, said he would have left earlier this year if not for the election of President Trump, whom he enjoys covering.
Mr. Wenner, 71, has been deferring to his son, Gus, 27, who this year was named president of Wenner Media.
Nancy Gibbs of Time had worked at the company for 32 years.
And Cindi Leive of Glamour and Robbie Myers of Elle both served for nearly two decades.
Photo

Quietly, optimists in the business say that it may be healthy for a younger generation of editors to take the reins.
Older editors are less accustomed to the rhythms and forms of web journalism; Jann Wenner, for instance, famously resisted posting Rolling Stone stories online.
Many of the industrys rising stars are finding ways to raise revenue and gain readers on the digital side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you want to do the same thing year in and year out, you shouldnt do these jobs, Mr. Carey said.
Kurt Andersen, a former editor of New York and, with Mr. Carter, a founder of Spy magazine, said that print magazines were still breathing, but that the recent upheaval was a sign that the denouement might not be far off.
The 1920s to the 2020s was kind of the century of the magazine, he said, noting that The New Yorker and Time were founded in the decade before the Great Depression.
Today, he added, the industry was in more of a dusk, a slow dusk, and were closer to sunset.
In his spacious aerie in Hearsts Midtown Manhattan tower, Mr. Carey displays trinkets of an earlier, more glamorous magazine age.
Behind his desk is a framed quote from Malcolm Forbes, the exuberant late chairman of Forbes magazine, and a yellowing memo about Tina Brown from Mr. Careys days as publisher of The New Yorker.
His 43rd floor office overlooks the Hudson River and Central Park.
Photo

But as the executive leading Hearsts magazine business into an uncertain future, Mr. Carey said that he was focused on identifying new ways to increase revenue and trim expenses.
We know that we have to constantly force ourselves to shake things up, said Mr. Carey, dressed meticulously in navy pinstripe.
All media companies are going through a period of change, and were not immune from that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hearst, like Cond Nast, is privately held, so the details of its financial performance are unclear.
But recent earnings reports from Hearsts publicly traded competitors provide a glimpse into the magazine industrys falling fortunes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Revenue at Time Inc. has declined every year since 2011; the company, which recently took itself off the market after speculation about a potential sale, is now aiming to cut $400 million in costs over the next 18 months.
Although the print business still accounts for roughly two-thirds of Time Inc.s $3 billion in annual revenue, the company is shifting resources to video and television.
Meredith, whose headquarters in Des Moines has test kitchens, craft studios and a wood shop, is doing comparatively better than its more glamorous rivals based in New York.
Its magazines, which focus largely on perennial topics like decorating and recipes, remain popular with the companys mostly female readers.
Still, Meredith reported a slight drop in revenue for its magazine business in its most recent fiscal year, which ended in June.
A flurry of recent sales also suggest that smaller publishers are having trouble surviving on their own.
Photo

Before Mr. Wenner put Rolling Stone up for sale, Wenner Media sold Us Weekly and Mens Journal to American Media Inc., the owner of The National Enquirer.
Johnson Publishing, which is based in Chicago, sold the magazines Ebony and Jet last summer to a private equity firm.
Rodale, whose titles include Bicycling, Runners World and Mens and Womens Health, recently said it, too, was for sale; a deal is expected to be announced in the coming weeks.
There have never been brand names like that that have been sold in such a concentrated period, said Reed Phillips, a managing partner at the investment bank Oaklins DeSilva & Phillips.
That alone indicates something is going on.
The financial outlook remains bleak.
Analysts and executives expect double-digit annual declines in print advertising to continue.
The ad buying firm Magna projects print magazine ad sales to fall 13 percent this year, with a similar rate of decline in 2018, according to a report released last week.
Mr. Phillips said it was only a matter of time until these trends were felt at the industrys highest levels.
In the past, magazines could support celebrity editors, but its becoming harder and harder with the revenue declines to do that, he said.
This is really not about making the numbers in 2017, but making the numbers in 2018.
One day after the fete for Mr. Carter at the Waverly Inn, Time Inc. rolled out a major initiative: PeopleTV.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A new iteration of a streaming video network that the company introduced last year, PeopleTV will feature pop culture programming in conjunction with Entertainment Weekly, another Time Inc. title.
Among the shows on offer: Paws & Claws, which, according to a news release, will feature all of the adorable, viral and buzzworthy animal stories of the week.
Photo

Pet videos are a favorite on social media, so it is easy to see why Time Inc. wants to jump on the fluffy bandwagon.
But that material is a far cry from the award-winning journalism that filled once-thick issues of Fortune, Sports Illustrated and Time, where Mr. Carter got his start in New York journalism.
These experiments are part of an industrywide race to find some way  any way  to make up for the hemorrhaging of revenue.
Hearst recently introduced The Pioneer Woman Magazine, a partnership with the Food Network host Ree Drummond that was initially sold only at Walmart.
Its new travel publication, Airbnbmag, is geared toward customers of the do-it-yourself online rental site, with distribution at newsstands, airports and supermarkets.
Meredith has started a magazine called The Magnolia Journal with the HGTV stars Chip and Joanna Gaines.
Even Cond Nast, the glitzy purveyor of luxury titles, has recognized the advantages of outside partnerships.
In recent weeks, the company debuted a quarterly print title for Goop, Gwyneth Paltrows lifestyle brand, with a cover featuring a topless Ms. Paltrow submerged in mud from France.
At Vanity Fair, Mr. Carter resisted efforts by Cond Nast executives to shift his design, photo, research and copy teams out of the magazines purview, a move required of nearly every other title as part of a companywide cost-cutting effort, according to two people who spoke anonymously to describe private discussions.
Mr. Carter was reluctant to make additional cuts that may be forced upon his magazine in the future, the people said.
Some veteran editors rue the trend toward corporate metrics in the industry.
Terry McDonell, a former top editor at Sports Illustrated and Rolling Stone, said that celebrity editors of the past embodied and defined the magazines they ran.
Now that is being replaced by people who believe that you can, in fact, engineer creativity and quality journalism, he said.
Mr. Andersen, who now writes books and hosts a public radio show, said that magazines might eventually gain a cult following akin to the interest around other obsolete media, like vinyl records.
Eventually, theyll become like sailboats, he said.
They dont need to exist anymore.
But people will still love them, and make them and buy them.
These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72 hours.
Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on Amazon for under $200.
Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard equipment.
Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids tin to harvest firewood.
Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for men, to soak up blood from wounds.
As long as the gear gets the job done, thats what matters, said Andrew Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.
Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M.
withdrawals to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europes currency union.
In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan administration, insist that an even bigger crisis will soon tank Wall Street and torpedo the dollar.
No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.
While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce).
My preferred form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides high-speed lead, wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.
Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket wrench in an economic Mad Max scenario.
Even so, some survivalists remain silver skeptics.
For $100, lets say you get five silver coins, said an urban preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco.
Why not buy 100 cans of soup?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

3.
Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a hiccup.
To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.
Liquor, too  particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles  would likely prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out, also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in herbal remedy tinctures.
Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com with his wife, Elise.
If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in 2001, or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic level clearly carried the most value when trading  cans of food, gas, batteries, cheap Bic lighters, he said.
A good rule of thumb: If youd find it useful in an emergency, youll be able to find someone who will trade for it in an emergency.
Beyond Duck and Cover

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations, many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival kit.
Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.
Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation.
Others turn to basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RAD badges, potassium iodide tablets or a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims will filter out 99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found after a nuclear event.
Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies, Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about as much good in the event of a direct strike.
The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms.
This may sound like a slogan from a fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to Creek Stewart, a survival instructor and television host.
When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper.
Oh, and theyre also great for the obvious use, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

6.
Armed to the Teeth, but With What?
Photo

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple  the gun  is highly restricted by law.
(The same goes for brass knuckles, nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that D.I.Y.
prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder balls.)
So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do?
Prepper bibles like 100 Deadly Skills, by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches, which is not illegal to possess, a New York City Police Department spokesman said, but would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone.
Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu.
But if its really on, hand-to-hand self-defense will only take you so far, said Jason Charles, a firefighter and organizer of the New York City Preppers Network.
To balance legality with lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, you have to go simpler  hammers, hatchets, certain heavy tools.
That roll of old silver quarters might come in handy, too.
Paddling to Safety

Photo

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in remote desert bunkers.
Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target, but an island.
In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider waterborne escape.
A lightweight, folding kayak like the Oru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase  perfect for those tiny Upper West Side closets.
Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing.
There are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance of commercial and ferry transit traffic, said Randall Henriksen of the New York Kayak Company.
But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New Yorkers may reach for a paddle.
Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes.
In fact, tragic images from the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for shinnying down) and small parachutes.
Photo

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man might find the landing a little rough.
You may twist an ankle, said Nicolas Havett, a company executive.
But in a situation serious enough to warrant a parachute, thats a deal that many would take.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

9. Who Are You Calling Rocket Man?
Photo

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie Thunderball, a space-age gag in Gilligans Island.
But a half-century later, jet packs actually exist.
A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a functioning turbojet version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10 minutes, traveling at speeds up to 100 miles per hour.
Current models are available only to the military, but David Mayman, the companys founder, said he plans to introduce a commercial version within 18 months.
Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened).
The bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie Escape From New York, but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or at least New Jersey).
From the time you push the button, you could be in the air in less than 30 seconds, Mr. Mayman said.
Sure, there is the cost  about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring down to the price of a luxury car.
For now, just think of it as the survivalists Maybach.
No Place Like Dome

Photo

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York.
In 1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire island  Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways  off the map.
In the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable, survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.
In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal environmental impact.
A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind Luke Skywalkers old pad on Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough to include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an instant hunting or fishing lodge.
But in the worst of times, this dome, built to sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes, makes great relief housing for disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for urbanites looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.
The dome houses are so rugged, according the companys founder, Don Kubley, you could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it.
One can only hope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Should disaster not strike?
They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.
Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have to eat.
Often.
That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as the new chicken by sustainable food types including Michael Pollan.
Raising meat rabbits is one of the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat, according to the site Survivalist 101.
By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too.
They can survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable fur for improvised winter clothing.
And boy do they breed.
A doe can produce up to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the Penn State Extension.
Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread, ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative Anachronism.
In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century Europe.
But should Armageddon arrive  say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange, global pandemic or cyber mega-attack  these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.
The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out.
In a scorched-earth scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harms way, preppers with deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate escape: launching their DNA into space.
Celestis, a company specializing in memorial spaceflights (sending cremated remains into space), recently introduced genetic spaceflight.
For $12,500, for example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair sample) into space on a true mission of exploration, aboard a spacecraft on a permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon.
Who knows  some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future, and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Lets just hope those humans dont choose to blow themselves up.
The shock was about to deepen.
The Ahsanis privately held company, Unaoil, a go-to agent for multinationals operating in the biggest oil patches on earth, would soon become the target of investigations on three continents.
The authorities in Britain, the United States and Australia are examining whether the family paid bribes in resource-rich countries, like Iraq and Libya, on behalf of a long list of companies.
Multinationals that vie for contracts in challenging markets have been quietly hiring middlemen for decades, seeking help to navigate countries where they dont know the folkways or politics.
It is one of the oil industrys most enduring but invisible roles.
Many of these middlemen stay on the right side of the law, offering advice and connections.
But others cross the line.
They grease the palms of officials and local managers, and they put a buffer between the payoff and the client, offering plausible deniability if the authorities catch on.
For Western corporations, such payments and other improprieties can run afoul of corruption laws and can lead to huge fines and, in some cases, prison terms.
In 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice collected more than $2 billion in fines from 26 companies that settled charges that they had violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Ahsanis have denied all charges, with vehemence and an armada of lawyers.
They say that they had an advisory division, but that work relied on cultivated relationships and hard-won knowledge, not graft.
They also oversaw a variety of joint ventures, they say, and at one point employed 1,400 laborers in countries like Iraq and Kazakhstan, working on a variety of engineering and construction projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the Ahsanis seek to clear their name, they face some thorny evidence  their own words.
The day after the raid in March 2016, a newspaper in Australia, The Age, published a multipart expos based largely on the contents of a Unaoil hard drive stuffed with emails, records and receipts.
The paper called Unaoil the company that bribed the world.
In these documents, the Ahsanis come across as cautious players in a treacherous game.
The family and employees communicate with code words and nicknames.
When an underling, strategizing about an Iraqi oil official, takes a blunt approach  The best medicine for a calm life is a dose of George Washington  he is rebuked.
The way you write your emails may give rise to questions, Saman Ahsani replied.
Photo

The hard drive itself, which was sent to The Age by an unidentified source, is shrouded in intrigue.
Lawyers for the Ahsanis say it was used in an extortion attempt in the months before the raid.
Send me $5 million, wrote a blackmailer who asked to be called Komrade, or all these documents will wind up on the internet.
But the provenance of the hard drive has not slowed the authorities.
Since its contents were published, the British authorities have begun a number of investigations into former Unaoil clients.
One of them is Petrofac, a British oil field services company, which suspended its chief operating officer in May after he and the chief executive were arrested, questioned and then released by the Serious Fraud Office.
Petrofac later released a statement that said it had taken a number of actions that signal the boards determination to cooperate fully with the S.F.O.
Experts say that in the short term, prosecutors hope that companies will sign settlements and that some executives will go to prison.
Longer term, said Andrew Spalding, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law and senior editor of a blog about foreign corrupt practices, their hope is that this case changes the cost-benefit analysis of any company that thinks it needs to engage in bribery to compete.
A Toxic Brand

A soft-spoken 43-year-old with courtly manners and an Oxford education, Saman Ahsani is the family diplomat.
When he, his brother and his father decided that they were tired of being portrayed in the media as high-end grifters, Mr. Ahsani was the emissary to The New York Times, in the first sit-down interview given by any of the principals since the raid.
His lawyers, quite sensibly, asked him to avoid legal issues.
But he was eager to describe the familys business history and the personal toll the case has taken.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our reputation has been shredded, he said, sitting on a Louis XVI-style sofa in his Monaco apartment with a striking view of the ocean.
Within 24 hours, we became pariahs.
A toxic brand, overnight.
The publication of Cyrus Ahsanis sometimes fratboyish musings, and the investigation, sent him into a deep depression that lasted for months, his brother said.
Their fathers trouble with heart palpitations has worsened, along with some memory loss.
Its been incredibly frustrating for him, Mr. Ahsani said.
Itd be tough for anyone, especially when you think this is all completely unjustified.
For much of a 90-minute interview, he described Unaoils work for an array of companies, including BP and Shell, handling jobs like on-site inspections and equipment maintenance.
To buttress his account, he handed over a color brochure with photographs and descriptions of projects, all of them in Iraq.
One project was installing new interface facilities in the West Qurna oil field on behalf of the Basrah Gas Company.
Photo

Were portrayed as this brass-plate money-laundering operation, Mr. Ahsani said.
With just a few phone calls, you can see this is a company that, year in, year out, is delivering projects for large companies.
A number of former clients declined to discuss Unaoil.
Neither BP nor Shell would comment, and emails to the Basrah Gas Company were not returned.
The batch of leaked documents, by contrast, is like an informant who wont shut up.
An excerpt of about 100 pages was provided to The Times by The Age.
Many transactions are detailed, including $400,000 given to an Iranian expatriate with connections to Azerbaijans oil minister, and 2.75 million euros given to a businessman tight with the Syrian regime.
Without context and a basic grasp of in-house terminology, some sentences read like nonsense.
When a Unaoil manager wants to boast to a potential American client about how much sway the company has with key players in Kazakhstan, he writes about the need to demonstrate that we own the Spaghetti House and have a lease on the Shashlik takeaway.
But the exchange is in the midst of discussion that is not about food.
Its about an Italian oil company (Spaghetti House) with strong links to Kazakh oil officials (Shashlik, a popular dish in Kazakhstan).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a recent email, Mr. Ahsani said he was unable to comment on the specifics of the internal documents because anything he says may hinder an eventual defense.
He added, There is a great deal we would like to say.
The Ahsanis have never said the cache of documents is not authentic.
What the documents show is that the Ahsanis operate in a realm that is both competitive and exasperating.
The politicians they deal with are high maintenance  cranky, greedy and unreliable.
The Ahsanis and colleagues describe doling out cash for flights, five-star hotels, clothing, even CDs and perfume.
An Iraqi heavy hitter gets two shopping sprees and English lessons for his son.
There are indignities, too.
When an oil executive with ties to Kazakhstans president was invited to the wedding of the Ahsanis other brother, Sassan, an assistant wrote to say a pop-star friend would attend instead.
His name is Yensepov, the assistant emailed in a document dated May 2006.
Can you book a single room for him in the same hotel, please?
Saman Ahsani forwarded the email to his brother and father, adding: Is he joking?
Changing Circumstances

The Ahsanis have resided for years in Monaco, a principality of 500 impeccably maintained acres of luxury shopping and manicured streets  like a Worlds Fair in which the theme is Money, or what youd expect if Rodeo Drive were a country.
Tourists cluster around the elegant Casino de Monte-Carlo and gawk at Lamborghinis and Bentleys in steady orbit on an adjacent street.
Roughly 40,000 people call this place home, lured by some combination of fine weather, price-on-request real estate and favorable tax treatment.
Photo

The social scene is tightly knit, and the Ahsanis were once prominent members of it.
Cyrus Ahsani was treasurer of the Monaco Ambassadors Club, an elite group of executives, diplomats and celebrities that claims Prince Albert II as honorary president.
The Ahsanis party-going days are behind them.
Bankers and accountants, once so eager to help, now shun the family.
Even small decisions must first be run by professionals.
Your life suddenly becomes: Are the lawyers going to approve this, are they going to approve that?
Saman Ahsani said.
Every day there are not one or two fires.
There are 15 fires.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The familys current circumstances  both its riches and its unwanted notoriety  are a world away from its origins.
Ata Ahsani grew up in a modest home in an ancient town in the south of Iran, the son of a carpet designer.
Scholarships sent him to universities in both England and the United States, but he returned to work for years at Western oil companies in Iran.
After the revolution in 1978, he moved to London and started all over in the chemical trade.
More than a decade later, he founded Unaoil in 1991.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Saman Ahsani said that over the years the company had spent millions building repair and service centers in Algeria, Azerbaijan and various countries in the Middle East, to fix or upgrade equipment like pumps and compressors.
The British authorities seem to believe that these enterprises were largely a cover.
The Serious Fraud Office stated in a court filing last year that it was unpersuaded that Unaoil conducts any lawful business.
That offends the Ahsanis.
To rebut the charge, they set up an interview with a former oil field manager, who agreed to talk on the phone if he was not named.
It was hard enough, this former senior vice president said, to find a new job.
His division had 230 people in Iraq, doing pump maintenance and site inspections, he said over the course of a half-hour discussion.
The story was detailed, and it ended with a grim description of laying off his entire crew soon after the raid of the Ahsanis homes.
But he acknowledged that he knew nothing about the advisory division of the company, where, the British authorities indicate, the bribery is alleged to have taken place.
Lindsey Mitchell, on the other hand, knew that division well.
He worked there in 2009.
A 30-year veteran of the oil industry, Mr. Mitchell was hired by Unaoil because, he said in a recent phone interview, the Ahsanis were impressed by his connections to the regime of Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya.
The Ahsanis are likable guys, said Mr. Mitchell, who moved with his wife to Monaco for the job.
Very welcoming.
Nine months after he started, Mr. Mitchell flew to Tripoli to secure a $45 million environmental cleanup contract.
When he later reported to the Ahsanis, via Skype, that a manager at Waha Oil Company, a subsidiary of Libyas state-owned oil business, had demanded a payoff, the family did not demur, Mr. Mitchell recalled.
Soon, he said, an Ahsani relative, who ran Unaoils office in Tripoli, handed him an envelope that contained at least $10,000.
Mr. Mitchell said he had delivered the envelope, then started to feel awful.
He had never bribed anyone in his life.
I took a hard look at what Id done, he said.
Ive got kids, and I thought if they knew what just happened, they would lose all respect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The day after the envelope drop, Mr. Mitchell said, he emailed a resignation letter to the Ahsanis.
When he read the article in The Age, he contacted the lead reporter and had a request: Tell the authorities in the United States and Britain how to get in touch.
Photo

I knew my name was all over those documents, Mr. Mitchell said.
So I figured I wouldnt wait for them to come find me.
He has since debriefed the British authorities at a meeting in Vienna and the Federal Bureau of Investigation at a hotel near the airport in Calgary, Alberta.
Without asking for immunity, he described everything he knew.
Whether he is currently in legal jeopardy is unclear.
Asked about Mr. Mitchell, a lawyer for the Ahsanis, Roger Burlingame, said, We cannot comment at this stage, but we look forward to addressing Mr. Mitchells claims at the appropriate time.
Soul of a Spy Novelist

The identity of the person who leaked documents about Unaoil to The Age has not been made public.
But this much is obvious: Whoever it was has the soul of a spy novelist.
Before sending anything, the source asked the paper to demonstrate its commitment by placing an ad in a French magazine, Le Figaro, that included the words Monte Christo.
A reporter, Nick McKenzie, followed those instructions, posting a for-sale notice for a nonexistent home in Sydney, Australia.
The source, soon nicknamed Le Figaro, ultimately provided hundreds of thousands of documents.
In the hopes of maximizing publicity about the case, The Age shared the tranche with its media partner The Huffington Post, which published its own articles the same day as The Age.
Le Figaro also wanted the documents shared with law enforcement in Australia.
Mr. McKenzie said a heads-up had been given to officials about the date when The Age and The Huffington Post would publish, which helps explains the one-two timing of the raid and the exposs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Ahsanis knew that a public-relations nightmare could be imminent.
In December 2015, the family says, the company had been contacted by someone identified as Komrade, whom we will assume is male, for the sake of a pronoun.
Documents provided to The Times by a publicist for the Ahsanis show that Komrade claimed to have spent $50,000 for a Unaoil hard drive sold by a hacker.
For $5 million in Bitcoin, Komrade offered to destroy the lot.
If he wasnt paid in three days, everything would be sent to newspapers and WikiLeaks.
Some people very stupid, emotion get in the way, Komrade wrote, using what was either Russian-accented prose or an English speakers attempt to sound Russian.
Ignore my request and your family business comes to an end.
A cybersecurity firm, Guidepost Solutions, advised the Ahsanis to pay a fraction of the demanded ransom to keep talks going and perhaps reel Komrade in.
A tense, four-month negotiation ensued.
Saman Ahsani again served as diplomat, according to the documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist.
We are in the process of sending the initial payment, he wrote to Komrade in late December, on the verge of sending $50,000.
This is done as a sign of good faith and keeps to our word.
Komrade was ultimately sent an additional $100,000, which was far short of expectations.
The documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist show him growing more irritated and profane.
His final words arrived on March 25: Is time now for you feel some pain.
Four days later, the police in Monaco came knocking.
Are Le Figaro and Komrade the same person, an extortionist masquerading as a whistle-blower, or perhaps a whistle-blower who dabbles in extortion?
Lawyers for the Ahsanis think the answer is yes, and they have tried to turn the extortion plot into a media ethics matter, suggesting that The Age was relying on information used to commit blackmail.
Editors at The Age, which is owned by Fairfax Media, counter that the Ahsanis never mentioned blackmail when contacted with prepublication questions.
They add that Le Figaro did not ask for money, nor did anyone else reached by reporters after they started digging into the story.
These additional sources include former employees of Unaoil, according to Mr. McKenzie.
We have no evidence that our sources were involved in extortion attempts, and any alleged extortion bid has nothing to do with Fairfax Media, Alex Lavelle, editor of The Age, said in an email.
We maintain our stories on Unaoil are true, in the public interest and unimpeachable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the Serious Fraud Office, the stakes in the Unaoil case are high.
It has struggled for respect in the realm of corporate prosecutions and has badly lagged behind the Department of Justice in foreign corruption actions.
A spokesman for the office noted an in email that the Bribery Act, the countrys answer to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, didnt go into effect until 2011.
We have secured successful outcomes in all cases brought under the law, said the spokesman, Adam Lilley.
For the Ahsanis, the stakes are far higher.
Monaco is a signatory to the European Convention on Extradition, which means the family is shadowed by the possibility that the local police may one day return, and this time hand the Ahsanis over to the British authorities, who could seek prison sentences.
The Ahsanis now have little choice but to wind down what is left of the company, confer with attorneys and wait.
Lawyers in the white-collar field say that if charges are ultimately filed against the family, a case will not be easy for the government to win.
Following the money in these investigations is time consuming and difficult, and internal emails alone are hardly proof of a crime.
Also, it would be hugely difficult to obtain witnesses in countries like Iraq.
But Saman Ahsani said some of his neighbors had already come up with a verdict of their own.
There are certain individuals, you can see written on their face, while you are talking, at best a presumption of guilt, he said.
At worst, a little bit of a smirk, like they are getting enjoyment out of the misery of others.
Youve got rising market power, said Marshall Steinbaum, an economist at the Roosevelt Institute, a liberal think tank.
In general, that makes it hard for new businesses to compete with incumbents.
Market power is the story that explains everything.
That argument comes at a potent political moment.
Populists on both the left and right have responded to growing public unease about the corporate giants that increasingly dominate their online and offline lives.
Polling data from Gallup and other organizations shows a long-running decline in confidence in banks and other big businesses  a concern not likely to abate after high-profile data breaches at Equifax and other companies.
The start-up slump has far-reaching implications.
Small businesses in general are often cited as an exemplar of economic dynamism.
But it is start-ups  and particularly the small subset of companies that grow quickly  that are key drivers of job creation and innovation, and have historically been a ladder into the middle class for less-educated workers and immigrants.
Perhaps most significant, start-ups play a critical role in making the economy as a whole more productive, as they invent new products and approaches, forcing existing businesses to compete or fall by the wayside.
Across the decades, young companies are really the heavy hitters and the consistent hitters in terms of job creation, said Arnobio Morelix, an economist at the Kauffman Foundation, a nonprofit in Kansas City, Mo., that studies and promotes entrepreneurship.
The start-up decline might defy expectations in the age of Uber and Shark Tank.
But however counterintuitive, the trend is backed by multiple data sources and numerous economic studies.
Photo

In 1980, according to the Census Bureau data, roughly one in eight companies had been founded in the past year; by 2015, that ratio had fallen to fewer than one in 12.
The downward trend cuts across regions and industries and, at least since 2000, includes even the beating heart of American entrepreneurship, high tech.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although the overall slump dates back more than 30 years, economists are most concerned about a more recent trend.
In the 1980s and 1990s, the entrepreneurial slowdown was concentrated in sectors such as retail, where corner stores and regional brands were being subsumed by national chains.
That trend, though often painful for local communities, wasnt necessarily a drag on productivity more generally.
Since about 2000, however, the slowdown has spread to parts of the economy more often associated with high-growth entrepreneurship, including the technology sector.
That decline has coincided with a period of weak productivity growth in the United States as a whole, a trend that has in turn been implicated in the patterns of fitful wage gains and sluggish economic growth since the recession.
Recent research has suggested that the decline in entrepreneurship, and in other measures of business dynamism, is one cause of the prolonged stagnation in productivity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Weve got lots of pieces now that say dynamism has gone down a lot since 2000, said John Haltiwanger, a University of Maryland economist who has done much of the pioneering work in the field.
Start-ups have gone down a lot since 2000, especially in the high-tech sectors, and there are increasingly strong links to productivity.
What is behind the decline in entrepreneurship is less clear.
Economists and other experts have pointed to a range of possible explanations: The aging of the baby-boom generation has left fewer Americans in their prime business-starting years.
The decline of community banks and the collapse of the market for home-equity loans may have made it harder for would-be entrepreneurs to get access to capital.
Increased regulation, at both the state and federal levels, may be particularly burdensome for new businesses that lack well-staffed compliance departments.
Those and other factors could well play a role, but none can fully explain the decline.
More recently, economists  especially but not exclusively on the left  have begun pointing the finger at big business, and in particular at the handful of companies that increasingly dominate many industries.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (<100 employees) 1980 1990 2000 2010 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
% 40 35 30 Large (5,000+) Medium (100-4,999) Small (less than 100 employees) 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 The share of employees working at large, medium and small companies in the United States.
The evidence is largely circumstantial: The slump in entrepreneurship has coincided with a period of increasing concentration in nearly every major industry.
Research from Mr. Haltiwanger and several co-authors has found that the most productive companies are growing more slowly than in the past, a hint that competitive pressures arent forcing companies to react as quickly to new innovations.
A recent working paper from economists at Princeton and University College London found that American companies are increasingly able to demand prices well above their costs  which according to standard economic theory would lead new companies to enter the market.
Yet that isnt happening.
If were in an era of excessive profits, in competitive markets we would see record firm entry, but we see the opposite, said Ian Hathaway, an economist who has studied the issue.
That, Mr. Hathaway said, suggests that the market is not truly competitive  that existing companies have found ways to block competitors.
Experts also point to anecdotal examples that suggest that the rise of big businesses could be squelching competition.
YouTube, Instagram and hundreds of lower-profile start-ups chose to sell out to industry heavyweights like Google and Facebook rather than try to take them on directly.
The tech giants have likewise been accused of using the power of their platforms to favor their own offerings over those of competitors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most recently, Amazon openly called for a bidding war among cities for its second headquarters  hardly the kind of demand a new start-up could make.
Mr. Morelix said the Amazon example was particularly striking.
Were saying that its O.K.
that they shape how a city charges taxes?
Mr. Morelix said.
And what kind of regulations they have?
That should be terrifying to anyone that wants a free market.
In Washington, where for years politicians have praised small businesses while catering to big ones, issues of competition and entrepreneurship are increasingly drawing bipartisan attention.
Several Republican presidential candidates referred to the start-up slump during last years primary campaign.
Progressive Democrats such as Senators Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have pushed for stricter enforcement of antitrust rules.
In a speech in March, Ms. Klobuchar explicitly tied the struggles of entrepreneurs to rising corporate concentration.
In July, entrepreneurs achieved a mark of political relevance: their own advocacy group.
The newly formed Center for American Entrepreneurship will conduct research on the importance of new businesses to the economy and push for policies aimed at improving the start-up rate.
Its founding president, John Dearie, comes from big business  he was most recently the acting head of the Financial Services Forum, which represents big financial institutions.
Everybody loves entrepreneurship, but theyre not aware its in trouble, Mr. Dearie said.
If new businesses are the engine of net new job creation, and if new businesses are the engine of innovation, and new business creation is at 30-year lows, thats a national emergency.
We dont really see this trend ending anytime soon, said Marci Freede, who opened the Paint Place on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in 2014 and added a second location, in Astoria, Queens, last year.
Photo

Photo

Whether run by franchisees or sole proprietors, the classes have a similar structure: An artist offers step-by-step instructions on how to paint a predetermined image.
While they paint, customers enjoy an alcoholic beverage of their choice (or, if they prefer, coffee or water).
And when they finish, they get to keep their creations.
Classes can cost $35 to $65 a person, depending on location and format.
Cathy Deano, a founder of Painting With a Twist, which is based in Mandeville, La., said that most participants had not done much painting, if any, before taking a class, and that having a few sips of wine helped tame what she called the white canvas anxiety that novice artists can feel when starting a painting.
It just relaxes them, she said.
I tell my husband, Its like going fishing, said Susan Jean, the proprietor of Painting With a Twists Bentonville location.
You drink a little, talk a lot and bring something home.
Ms. Jean, 59, said she had always wanted to run her own business and had decided on a paint-and-sip shop after taking a class with her sister.
She is not an artist herself: I cant paint a wall, she said with a shrug.
She hires local artists to teach the classes, while she and her daughter, Katie Collins, run the business.
Some classes are open to anyone; others are geared toward couples or girls night out groups.
Companies also schedule classes as team-building exercises or fund-raising events.
The paint-and-sip trend has been driven in part by a generally heightened interest in wine, said Ben Litalien, an instructor in the franchise-management certificate program at Georgetown Universitys School of Continuing Studies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But, Mr. Litalien said, consumers were also increasingly being drawn to experiences that engage them and allow them to express themselves, rather than simply buying something.
Other examples of experience-based businesses that he cited included Top Golf, where customers play golf-related games, and escape rooms, where participants solve puzzles together.
The growth of such businesses may reflect the findings of recent psychological research showing that people are happier when they have an experience rather than making a purchase.
In a 2014 article in Psychological Science (title: Waiting for Merlot), researchers at Cornell University and the University of California, San Francisco, found that just the anticipation of experiences could be more pleasurable than the anticipation of buying merchandise.
Starting a Painting With a Twist location requires an initial franchise fee of $25,000; total upfront costs, including that fee, can run from $89,000 to $188,000, depending on location.
The companys franchise agreement calls for a seven-year commitment.
Annual gross revenue for individual outlets averages about $388,000, according to Painting With a Twist.
Mr. Litalien said that demand for so-called experiential classes was high and that there appeared to be little risk of cannibalization as the industry grew.
A potential long-term challenge was getting customers to return, especially, he said, as the novelty subsides.
In other words, how many paintings of sunsets and butterflies do people want, even if they painted them themselves?
Some outlets are trying different approaches to keep the experience fresh.
Bottle & Bottega, which is based in Chicago, offers classes to personalize a wine glass or holiday ornament.
It also offers bachelorette parties, where participants paint a nude male model.
Bottle & Bottegas website describes the sessions as fun, classy and upscale.
Photo

Photo

Ms. Freede of the Paint Place said her outlets tried to spice things up as well, offering erotic painting nights for couples.
Nothing vulgar, she said, just paintings that might be a bit more risqu than those offered on a typical night.
Many locations tap into Americans obsession with dogs and cats by offering Paint Your Pet classes.
Participants provide photographs of their pets in advance, which an artist sketches in pencil.
Classes are then devoted to finishing the images with paint.
Those always sell out, said Ms. Collins of the Painting With a Twist location here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Studios also try to connect painting classes to the wider world.
The Bentonville group, for instance, painted a purple-hued eclipse, in honor of the solar eclipse in August.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Shelby Nichols, the instructor for the two-hour session in Bentonville on that August Friday, stepped onto a raised platform.
Wearing a headset with a microphone, she ran through a checklist of supplies: chalk, paint and brushes.
Were going to put the first layer on a bit thin, she said, demonstrating on her own canvas.
Dont glop it on!
Ms. Nichols, 31, a professional illustrator, said she enjoyed moonlighting as a teacher for inexperienced artists.
Im a ham, she said, so I like being on stage.
As she delivered instructions, a playlist featuring the singer Bruno Mars and 80s bands like Simple Minds provided a soundtrack.
Ms. Collins surveyed the room and offered encouragement.
As the session proceeded, the mood grew increasingly relaxed, an end-of-week feeling combined with the effect of the alcohol.
The sessions are as much about socializing as they are about art.
Resist the urge to paint the middle right now, Ms. Nichols admonished, as the participants painted a yellow oval.
Resist!
Photo

The class was a mix of couples, friends, newcomers and regulars.
Gayle Jackson, 70, sipped a glass of white wine as she painted.
She said she considered the drink incidental to the camaraderie.
Im a widow, she said, and this gets me out.
She added that it also gave her ideas for painting at home with her grandchildren.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the next table, Lexy Paryzek, 25, a human resources manager at a hospital, and her date, Jonathan Hendrix, 29, a real estate appraiser, shared a bottle of wine.
Mr. Hendrix said it was their second visit; it had been his idea to bring Ms. Paryzek the first time.
Its quality time together, he said, adding that it was nice to have a date night that did not involve a bar.
This time, they had brought along their mothers, who sat across the table.
Its just relaxing, said Mr. Hendrixs mother, Karen Hendrix, who had been before.
Im a teachers aide, so I need some stress-free time.
Local regulations governing such businesses vary.
Some paint-and-sip locations allow people to bring their own alcohol, but others do not and require patrons to buy drinks on site.
Classes typically last just two hours, so it is rare for someone to get too tipsy, Ms. Collins said.
The exception is on weekends, when it is sometimes obvious that a patron has been pre-gaming, drinking before class.
In those instances, she said, she makes sure to ask if the person has a ride home.
So far, she said, weve never had to shut somebody off.
Patrons have mostly been able to follow an instructors directions, but occasionally someone will need extra help.
Once, Ms. Collins said, a male patron planned to paint Will you marry me?
on a canvas and present it to his girlfriend as a proposal, but he got too nervous.
The instructor finished it for him.
