Washington (CNN) The IRS is now sharing information with special counsel Robert Mueller about key Trump campaign officials, after the two entities clashed this summer over both the scope of the investigation into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election and a raid on former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's home, people briefed on the matter tell CNN.
Part of the concern centered on the far-reaching and broad requests from Mueller's team.
In the case of Manafort, Mueller's investigators are reaching back 11 years as they investigate possible tax and financial crimes, according to search warrant documents.
Mueller is bound by a written order issued by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in May which allows the special counsel to investigate "any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation."
After several months of being at odds, one source said, the IRS Criminal Investigation division is now sharing information about campaign associates, including Manafort and former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn.
The sharing happened after the two camps reached an agreement following consultation with officials at the Treasury Department.
CNN has learned the IRS Criminal Investigation agents had been working with the FBI to investigate Manafort since before the election in a similar probe that centered on possible money laundering and tax fraud issues, according to the sources.
It's unclear if Flynn is now or was previously under investigation by the IRS.
CNN has reported that Mueller's team is examining Flynn's payments from Turkey and Russia

A former high-level Justice Department official says the information shared would include anything tax return-related such as real estate and banking records.
The former official added the IRS is very restricted in what information it can share under Title 26 US Code and would normally need a specific grand jury subpoena in order to share tax returns with another agency.
Read More
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights Roy Moore has the support of Steve Bannon and Sarah Palin

Sen. Luther Strange has backing from President Donald Trump

Montgomery, Alabama (CNN) Votes are being counted Tuesday night in Alabama's hard-fought Republican Senate contest between Sen. Luther Strange and former state Supreme Court judge Roy Moore.
The race to replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions has tested whether President Donald Trump's endorsement and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's allies' money can carry Strange into a December matchup against Democratic nominee Doug Jones.
Anti-establishment Republicans have viewed Moore -- ousted twice as state Supreme Court chief justice but revered among social conservatives for his anti-LGBT views and his advocacy for Christianity in public life -- as the true heir to Trump's campaign.
"Judge Roy Moore was deplorable before it was cool to be deplorable," 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin said in Alabama last week.
Steve Bannon, the former Trump White House chief strategist-turned-Moore advocate, will be on hand for his election night party in Montgomery.
Read More
Story highlights Roy Moore is running as the anti-establishment Republican

This race could determine how future races will play out for Republicans

Sen. Luther Strange has the backing of Trump and McConnell

Washington (CNN) Sen. Luther Strange and Roy Moore have one final day of campaigning before Republican voters in Alabama will take to the polls in a GOP primary to decide who they want to run against Democrat Doug Jones in the special election to fill a US Senate seat.
Strange, who was appointed by then-Gov.
Robert Bentley to finish out the term after Jeff Sessions became attorney general, is running against Moore, the former chief justice of the Alabama Supreme Court in the GOP primary.
Strange is seen as an establishment Republican who has strong support from President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to keep the seat, which Sessions had held for two decades.
He has been propped up by more than $9 million in spending from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with McConnell.
Trump boosted Strange on Twitter Tuesday morning: "Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job - vote today for 'Big Luther.'"
Meanwhile Moore, a hardline conservative Christian, has cast the campaign as an opportunity to reject McConnell -- a much less popular figure among Alabama Republicans than Trump.
He has the support of Steve Bannon, the recently ousted former White House chief strategist, and former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin.
But, what Bannon, who until last month was a senior strategist to President Donald Trump, said about the Senate majority leader -- and House Speaker Paul Ryan -- on Monday night in Alabama was over-the-top even for Bannon.
Here's a sampling:

The backdrop for Bannon's comments was a rally for Roy Moore, the former Alabama state Supreme Court justice who is running in Tuesday's special election runoff for the unexpired term of US Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Moore's opponent is appointed Sen. Luther Strange, who has the endorsement of Trump, McConnell and virtually every member of the GOP's political establishment.
Bannon is known for his bluster and for grandiose verbiage describing the stakes of, well, everything.
He's also known to loathe the Republican political establishment -- a view that led him to ally with Trump long before anyone knew the real estate mogul was serious about running for president in 2016.
What's clear from Bannon's comments on Monday night, however, is that he doesn't believe the war against his own party ended with Trump's election.
He thinks it's only just begun.
Bannon said as much.
"I told (Trump) I was going to go after the establishment, go after the establishment first and the Democrats later," he told the crowd.
(A question: Did Trump bless that approach?)
Think about this: The former top political strategist for the Republican President of the United States called the two top Republicans in Congress "the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country."
He added that they are "going after President Trump every day."
And, most ominously, Bannon promised McConnell and former Bush White House political Svengali Rove that "your day of reckoning is coming."
Imagine for a second if David Axelrod, who held a similar role in Barack Obama's White House, not only campaigned against the president's chosen candidate in a primary but also savaged Harry Reid and Nancy Pelosi -- and told them their day of reckoning was coming.
It would be a MASSIVE story -- and rightly so.
Because we have been so inoculated to the oddities of every day in the Trump administration, there's a tendency to just skip over Bannon's comments.
We shouldn't.
A prominent member of Trump's inner circle is blasting the top leaders of his party and promising retribution.
That's a big deal with real implications for Trump's already-fraught relationship with his party in Congress.
Newark, New Jersey (CNN) As federal prosecutors in Sen. Bob Menendez's federal corruption trial have moved from opulence in Paris and the Dominican Republic to politics in Washington, a theme from the defense team has started to emerge: intent matters.
Testimony from three witnesses at trial this week have touched on one of the essential "official acts" of the prosecution's case: The Democratic senator interceded in a contract dispute his friend, Dr. Salomon Melgen, had with the government of the Dominican Republic for cargo screening at the island's ports.
Mark Wells, a State Department official, described for the jury how Menendez met with Ambassador William R. Brownfield, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics & Law Enforcement Affairs, about the port screening contract in 2012 -- leading the ambassador to schedule a separate meeting with the President of the Dominican Republic and convey the "intense congressional interest over the favorable resolution of this contract dispute."
Contemporaneous emails at the time also show State Department officials saying Menendez "threatened to hold a hearing on the matter."
The contract dispute fits into a key narrative for the prosecution, as it seeks to convince the jury that the senator used the power of his office to pressure other federal officials to help resolve business disputes in Melgen's favor -- a difficult task made even more burdensome after the Supreme Court narrowed the definition of "official acts" sufficient under federal bribery law in 2016.
Read More
(CNN) The acting administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chuck Rosenberg, plans to step down this week, a law enforcement official familiar with his plans told CNN.
Rosenberg no longer wants to work in the Trump administration, the source said.
In July, after President Donald Trump told law enforcement officers in New York to be more "rough" with suspects, Rosenberg sent his employees an email that rebuked the President's suggestion.
"The President, in remarks delivered yesterday in New York, condoned police misconduct regarding the treatment of individuals placed under arrest by law enforcement," Rosenberg wrote in a message sent to DEA's "Global Distribution" list.
In the July email to employees, Rosenberg went on to say, "In writing to you, I seek to advance no political, partisan, or personal agenda.
Nor do I believe that a special agent or task force officer of the DEA would mistreat a defendant.
I know that you would not."
Read More
Story highlights The USS Kearsarge Amphibious Ready Group has already been conducting rescue operations in the region

The US Air Force is also sending additional aircraft to Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands

Washington (CNN) The US military is planning to deploy the USNS Comfort hospital ship to assist with FEMA's response efforts in Puerto Rico a week after Hurricane Maria smashed the island as a Category 4 storm, several defense officials told CNN.
The Comfort is a seagoing medical treatment facility "capable of providing resuscitation and stabilization care; initial wound and basic surgery; and postoperative treatment," according to the US Navy.
Puerto Rican officials asked for additional medical assistance from the ship after initially indicating that they wanted to focus on getting power restored to damaged hospitals on shore, US officials told CNN.
CARIBBEAN SEA (April 10, 2015) Military Sealift Command (MSC) hospital ship USNS Comfort (T-AH 20) sits anchored off the coast of Belize for it's first mission stop during Continuing Promise 2015.
While the Comfort is on the way, according to FEMA administrator Brock Long, it may not deploy for another week -- within five to nine days as additional forces are activated to help man the ship along with its current crew of about 18 civilian mariners.
The crew is expected to grow to as many 60 and the medical crew could increase from the approximately 65 now with the ship to as many as 1,200, according to officials.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt is known for mandating note-free meetings, he's the only administrator to have requested his 24/7 own security detail and now he's about to have his own sound-proof booth.
The EPA is spending close to $25,000 to construct a secure space for Pruitt within the agency, according to government contracting records first obtained and reported by the Washington Post

The booth, also known as a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF), will be a customized model for Pruitt to conduct meetings, calls and other lines of communication undisturbed, according to the Post.
The $24,570 contract was granted to Acoustical Solutions in August.
The Richmond, Virginia-based company offers soundproof supplies ranging from acoustic panels and fabrics to sound diffusers.
"They had a lot of modifications," said Steve Snider, an acoustic sales consultant with the company, told the Post.
"Their main goal was they wanted essentially a secure phone booth that couldn't be breached from a data point of view or from someone standing outside eavesdropping."
The EPA did not respond to multiple requests for comment from CNN.
Pruitt has taken several unusual steps regarding security and meetings at EPA.
It's been reported that the administrator, who prefers to interact with just the political appointees inside the agency, has banned note-taking during meetings and also recently requested funds for round-the-clock bodyguards.
While no previous EPA administrators had such a setup, the booth will not be the first SCIF constructed within the agency.
According to former EPA employees, the agency has long maintained a private room.
"This seems like the height of paranoia to me.
As someone who spent a lot of time in the administrator's office, I can tell you that there was nothing like this," Liz Purchia, former head of communications at EPA, told CNN.
"EPA already has a secure room for sharing information classified as secret," she added.
"I can't imagine why this taxpayer expense would be necessary and why an extra secure room is needed in his office other than to avoid staff and the Office of Homeland Security from documenting use of the room and the information that warrants protection."
Former EPA general counsel Avi Garbow also said he was unaware that any modifications or additions needed to be made to the EPA's SCIF.
"EPA has long maintained a SCIF -- which I utilized myself under appropriate circumstances -- and it appeared to be fully serviceable in its limited use," he told CNN.
Walter Shaub, former director at the US Office of Government Ethics, tweeted a tongue-in-cheek response Tuesday evening, "Vote now: "EPA Administrator Maxwell Smart Installs Cone of Silence in Office" or "EPA Chief Channels Howard Hughes."
Shaub, a CNN contributor, followed with another tweet saying, "The news accounts coming out of EPA have been highlighting the lack of transparency, but this takes it to a new extreme."
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
Washington (CNN) When Hurricane Maria barreled across Puerto Rico, devastating buildings with wind and flooding and wiping out the power infrastructure, the safety and livelihood of more than 3.4 million Americans hung in the balance.
But has Puerto Rico's lack of statehood caused the federal government and broader American public to overlook its fellow citizens?
President Donald Trump pledged to visit the island next Tuesday , saying the island was "literally destroyed" and making more disaster assistance dollars available.
He congratulated the federal government on its response, saying "I think we've done a really good job" and citing praise from local government officials.
Thank you to Carmen Yulin Cruz, the Mayor of San Juan, for your kind words on FEMA etc.We are working hard.
Much food and water there/on way

But the main airport on the island is barely functioning and shipments of aid are struggling to keep up with the millions there who need food and shelter.
House Speaker Paul Ryan called the devastation on the island a "humanitarian crisis," promising that the victims will get the same help that people in Texas and Florida received.
In many ways, like population and gross domestic product, Puerto Rico appears like just any other middle-of-the-road state that may blend in with many you'd see on the American mainland.
But its economic problems left it extremely vulnerable to a storm like this.
Here's a look at how Puerto Rico ranks up against the 50 states.
A state without statehood?
Less than a three-hour flight from Miami, the island of just more than 5,000 square miles is smaller than every American state except for Delaware and Rhode Island.
Still, in many ways, Puerto Rico is very similar to a US state.
It's home to more than 3.4 million people, according to the US Census Bureau -- a population larger than 21 states, including Iowa, Arkansas and Nevada.
That number has declined in recent years as more residents move to the US mainland amid economic woes on the island.
The Puerto Rico population has steadily declined over the last decade from 3.8 million people.
Just in the last year, according to the US Census Bureau, the population declined by a broad 1.8 percentage points.
(Only six states had declining populations from 2015 to 2016, but none of the US states' populations were declining as quickly as Puerto Rico's; West Virginia being the worst at just 0.5 points.)
Puerto Rico's gross domestic product -- at $103 billion, according to the World Bank -- would rank 37th if Puerto Rico were a state, ahead of places like New Mexico, South Dakota and New Hampshire, according to data from the US Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Puerto Rico came under US control more than a century ago, and Puerto Ricans have voted a half-dozen times on statehood -- most recently a low-turnout nonbinding vote in June where residents overwhelmingly voted to become to 51st state.
Ultimately, however, Congress must pass a law admitting them to the union.
For the time being, residents of the island are natural-born citizens just like anyone born in a US state, but they don't have a voting member in Congress or votes in the Electoral College, which elects the president.
Like the 50 states, Puerto Rico has hits own constitution, governor and legislature.
The economic vulnerability of Puerto Rico

Puerto Rico has stark economic woes that separate it from most of the 50 states -- and make the island particularly vulnerable to a large storm that wipes out infrastructure and devastates personal property.
A broad 44% of its residents live in poverty, according to the US Census Bureau.
That's more than double the 21% of residents in Mississippi and Louisiana who live in poverty -- the highest in the United States.
The island also has been plagued by debt and a declining credit rating amid an economic recession there.
Trump had tweeted earlier that Puerto Rico was in "deep trouble" after the storm, in part because its electrical grid was "in terrible shape" and they have "billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks."
Indeed, the median household income on the island is just $19,350, according to the US Census Bureau -- less than half the median household income of those in Mississippi and Louisiana, again at the bottom of the list.
The median income for the entire United States is more than triple the island's number, and the median income in the most wealthy states in the country hit nearly four times as much money.
Unemployment in Puerto Rico also remains high at 10.1% -- worse than any state and more than double the national unemployment rate in the United States of 4.4%.
Still, it's been a slightly improvement over the last several years after it reached a peak of 17.0% in 2010, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Hurricane Maria slammed into Puerto Rico last week as a Category 4 storm, the largest storm to hit the US territory in nearly a century.
(CNN) President Donald Trump suggested to House Republicans at a bipartisan meeting on tax reform that if they fail to act on health care, he would work with Democrats instead, issuing a loaded warning on a topic that's seen little to no cooperation between the two parties.
Trump made his threat as members of the House Ways and Means Committee met Tuesday with the President at the White House to discuss an entirely different topic: tax reform.
According to members who attended the sit-down, Trump stressed that he wanted a bipartisan effort on tax reform and expressed frustration with his own party for failing to pass a health care bill.
Just hours later, Senate Republicans announced they would not hold a vote on the latest iteration of their health care bill, marking yet another failed attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
Trump told the group at the White House he was "disappointed" in Republican senators who came out against the recent Graham-Cassidy bill and doomed its prospects, according to Democratic Rep. Linda Sanchez, who was at the White House meeting.
Sanchez said Trump "chided" the Republican members in attendance, saying he could end up working with Democrats on health care legislation.
"We'll see if that happens," Sanchez said, adding that it wasn't a long discussion.
Rep. Richard Neal, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, described the President's tone as "less than strident" but said "he made that clear that if he didn't get what he wanted, he was going to work with Democrats on a plan."
New York Republican Rep. Tom Reed who attended the White House meeting Tuesday told CNN he didn't classify the comment from the President as a "threat," but said the President "wants to govern for the American people and if there are folks on our side who just cannot get to that point than obviously you have no alternative but then to work with folks on the other side who will be good faith negotiators."
"There was definitely a clear signal that he's willing to work with legislators who want to govern and I support that wholeheartedly," said Reed, the co-chairman of the group known as the "problem solvers caucus."
Goals for tax reform revealed

The bipartisan meeting came one day before Republicans are set to unveil a framework of their tax reform plan.
Trump reiterated that the plan would be "middle class tax cut" and said there would be no tax cuts on the wealthy, according to Republican Rep. Jim Renacci of Ohio.
Trump was "pretty adamant" about wanting to get tax reform done, Renacci said, adding that the President was also passionate about a child care tax credit proposal being pushed by his daughter, Ivanka Trump.
"He wants to make sure that the credits are to a point where single working mothers and fathers can be able to afford childcare while they're working," Renacci said.
Neal, who took notes during the meeting, showed reporters his notepad with a quote that he wrote down, saying it was from Trump: "The rich will not benefit."
It's a promise that Democrats are planning to keep in the spotlight as the tax reform debate continues.
While Trump has repeatedly said his tax plan wouldn't benefit the wealthy, Neal said that Trump was prepared to move forward with repealing the estate tax -- which affects estates worth more than $5.49 million -- and indicated that lowering the top individual income tax rate was negotiable.
Two Republicans familiar with the plan expect the top income rate will drop to 35% from 39.6%, and the top corporate rate will drop to 20% from 35%.
But Republicans working on the plan stress that the rates are still fluid and could change before the release of the framework Wednesday.
Democrats argue that a drop in the individual top rate would be a tax cut for the wealthy.
"We want the top rate to stay at 39.6%," Neal said.
"It sends the signal that they're entirely true to the statement that was made on the campaign trail, that they intend not to offer any tax relief to the people at the top."
But even if the rate does decrease, it's not clear yet whether the richest Americans would pay less in federal income taxes overall because other changes could be made in the tax code that could offset the benefits they receive from a lower rate.
Trump is expected to address the plan Wednesday in an Indiana speech, while House Republicans will gather for a retreat to discuss some of the details.
(CNN) Special counsel investigators could start interviewing current and former White House staff as soon as later this week regarding the Russian probe, two sources familiar with the matter tell CNN.
One source cautioned it is still being worked out with Robert Mueller's office and said it might be delayed until next week.
As CNN previously reported, among the people Mueller has expressed interest in speaking with are former and current White House staffers whom investigators consider witnesses, including former chief of staff Reince Priebus, former press secretary Sean Spicer, communications director Hope Hicks, White House counsel Don McGahn, communications adviser Josh Raffel and associate counsel James Burnham.
Mueller's team also approached the White House about interviewing staffers who were aboard Air Force One for the creation of the initial response to news of Donald Trump Jr.'s Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer, sources previously told CNN

Mueller's investigators are looking for documents and emails relating to the dismissals of national security adviser Michael Flynn and FBI Director James Comey, according to the sources.
In addition, one source confirms that Mueller's team wants information connected to the Oval Office meeting Trump had with Russian officials in which he bragged about firing Comey, saying it eased pressure on his White House.
Read More
Story highlights Majority Leader McConnell decided not to hold a vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill

They currently lack the 50 votes needed to pass the legislation

"It's obvious -- we don't have the votes right now" said Sen. Tim Scott

It's another blow to President Trump's legislative agenda

Washington (CNN) The Senate will not vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal Obamacare, Republican leaders announced Tuesday, dealing a devastating blow to President Donald Trump and GOP lawmakers who tried to make a last-ditch attempt to deliver on the party's years-long campaign promise.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced the decision at a lunch with fellow Republicans on Capitol Hill, conceding what had become clear Monday night: They didn't have the votes.
"We haven't given up on changing the American health care system.
We are not going to be able to do that this week," McConnell told reporters Tuesday.
"But it still lies ahead of us, and we haven't given up on that."
JUST WATCHED Graham: Coming back to health bill after taxes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Graham: Coming back to health bill after taxes 01:18

Even as McConnell and his colleagues vowed that their goal of overhauling the country's health care system was far from over, Tuesday marked a clear end to the latest campaign to try to jam through a partisan bill to gut the Affordable Care Act.
The budget vehicle Republicans were using to move the bill forward without any Democratic support was set to expire at the end of this week.
The sponsors of Graham-Cassidy said they were disappointed but would try again -- next time through a more transparent process.
The new plan, they said, is to take another crack at health care through the 2019 budget reconciliation process (which would again only require 50 votes for passage) and hold committee hearings, markups and reach out to Democrats.
(CNN) President Donald Trump on Tuesday intensified his personal involvement in the growing crisis in Puerto Rico amid criticism that his response to the devastation there was lackluster.
There was an increased sense of urgency at the White House in confronting the situation, including Trump's announcement -- a surprise to some aides -- that he would travel there in a week to survey damage left over from the storm.
"Puerto Rico is very important to me, and Puerto Rico -- the people are fantastic people," Trump said before meeting with lawmakers in the Roosevelt Room on Tuesday.
"I grew up in New York, so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto Ricans.
And these are great people, and we have to help them.
The island is devastated."
After critics, Republican and Democratic alike, accused Trump of ignoring the situation in public -- choosing instead to focus his attention on stirring controversy over NFL players' National Anthem protests -- the West Wing on Tuesday was the site of a flurry of activity designed to show Trump taking charge of the matter.
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
"The crisis for these Americans needs more attention -- and more urgency from the executive branch.
The potable water problems are substantial," Sen. Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican, tweeted Monday night.
The crisis for these Americans needs more attention--and more urgency from the executive branch.
The potable water problems are substantial.
https://t.co/gNb3XY6HJw  Ben Sasse (@BenSasse) September 26, 2017

He was echoing a sentiment voiced by Sen. Marco Rubio, a fellow Republican, who wrote that more crews are needed to restore power on the island.
"Returning from #PuertoRico now.
Tremendous damage.
Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP," Rubio tweeted on Monday.
Joined by his homeland security adviser and acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Trump on Tuesday spoke by video conference with Puerto Rico's governor.
Photos released by the White House showed Trump, his arms crossed, listening alongside grim-faced aides as Puerto Rico's governor provided them with an update.
Briefed @POTUS @realDonaldTrump in #SituationRoom and thanked him for his leadership, quick response & commitment to our people  pic.twitter.com/hIFKYSMCDY  Ricardo Rossello (@ricardorossello) September 26, 2017

In the afternoon, the White House made a late addition to the President's schedule, publicizing his plans to meet with his top advisers in the Situation Room to discuss hurricane relief efforts.
Earlier in the day, Trump approved a change in the island's disaster declaration that increases federal funding for debris removal.
Chafing at criticism

JUST WATCHED Trump: I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL 00:58

White House officials say Trump has chafed at criticism that his administration has been slow in responding to the crisis in Puerto Rico, particularly compared to his quick trips to Texas and Florida after storms devastated those states.
After his top homeland security adviser Tom Bossert returned from the island, Trump demanded that aides work to schedule a trip there, despite the logistical challenges that persist.
One source said the President was told upon Bossert's return that Tuesday was the earliest he could visit the island.
The President's decision to visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday came suddenly for some at the White House, who as of Monday afternoon were not planning for Trump to travel there that quickly, a White House official said.
The White House on Monday night even announced plans for Trump to welcome the Thai prime minister to the White House next Tuesday -- a meeting now likely to be rescheduled.
Staffers on Monday had instead been planning for the President to head to the US Virgin Islands, with a Puerto Rico trip to come later.
Instead, Trump will visit both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands during his trip next week.
White House officials who advance the President's trips were notified only Tuesday morning of the change of plans.
The decision to speed up plans for a presidential visit to Puerto Rico came as the media spotlight turned to the unraveling situation on the US territory, where reports of hundreds of thousands of people without sufficient water or access to basic services have emerged.
It also came as critics accused the President of focusing more of his attention -- at least on social media -- on the controversy he created by launching a days-long tirade against NFL players who have taken a knee during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality.
Trump has been insistent about visiting Puerto Rico as quickly as possible, two sources said.
And Trump picked next Tuesday after his advisers said it was the earliest date a visit could be possible, one source said.
Speaking outside the White House on Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long said that all access to the island should be limited to life-saving activity.
"If you're going to Puerto Rico right now, it should only be for a life-sustaining, life-supporting mission.
Everybody who is trying to get in that is not supporting that is getting in the way," he said.
It wasn't clear whether the President's sense of urgency in making a visit was prompted by the criticism he has faced or the intensifying glare of media scrutiny over the federal response.
There has been a growing sense in the West Wing of the need to scale up the White House's efforts, even as the administration insists the federal response to the situation has been above par.
Trump touts 'great job'

JUST WATCHED Trump says administration preparing for Irma Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump says administration preparing for Irma 02:33

Trump on Tuesday sharply rebuffed concerns about the federal response to the disaster, bragging that Puerto Rico's elected officials were grateful for the actions his administration has taken to respond so far.
"The governor of Puerto Rico was so thankful for the great job that we're doing," Trump said in the Rose Garden during a news conference with the prime minister of Spain.
"It's the most difficult job because it's on an island in the middle of the ocean.
It's out in the ocean.
You can't just drive your trucks there from other states."
The situation in Puerto Rico is the third major disaster in the last month Trump and his administration have had to confront, following major hurricanes that led to massive flooding, damage and power outages primarily in Texas and Florida.
The US Virgin Islands, which Trump will also visit on Tuesday, were hit by both Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
The federal government has deployed thousands of relief workers to Puerto Rico since the storm, according to federal authorities.
On Tuesday, the government announced the US military would deploy the Navy hospital ship Comfort to the island, though it won't arrive there for days.
The vessel is minimally manned in Norfolk, Virginia, by a crew of about 18 civilian mariners, though additional forces will now be activated to man the ship.
It could provide as many as 1,200 hospital beds.
On CNN Tuesday, the acting-Homeland Security secretary Elaine Duke said her agency was sufficiently funded to contend with the dire needs on Puerto Rico.
"We are absolutely prepared financially," Duke said.
"We are working hand-in-hand with Congress and the White House to ensure that we have the funds to perform these essential missions for all three of the hurricanes."
As of Monday morning, FEMA had around $5 billion in disaster relief reserves that was allocated after Hurricane Harvey barreled through Texas last month.
An additional $6.7 billion will be available on October 1, when funding for the next fiscal year kicks in.
Congressional and White House sources said they expected the administration to request additional emergency funding in early- to mid-October.
Story highlights "The accomplished men and women of the RSC.
And women.
If it wasn't sexist, I would say the RSC eye candy"

Walker made the remark early on during his "3 Promises, 3 Months" speech

Washington (CNN) Rep. Mark Walker, the chair of the conservative Republican Study Committee, described female members of the group as the committee's "eye candy" during a press conference Tuesday morning.
"The accomplished men and women of the RSC.
And women.
If it wasn't sexist, I would say the RSC eye candy, but we'll leave that out of the record," Walker said during his remarks.
Speaking outside the Capitol, Walker made the remark early on during his "3 Promises, 3 Months" speech with his fellow committee members behind him.
The comment came during remarks about the group's goals over the never several months in Congress and how they would achieve them.
"During a press event today, I made a flippant remark meant to be light-hearted but fell short.
I'm proud of the women who serve in our RSC leadership," Walker told CNN in a statement.
Walker, a pastor from North Carolina, is a second-term congressman who is serving his first term as chairman of the committee, which has nearly 160 conservative members -- only 16 of whom are women.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Saudi Arabia is easing restrictions on women driving, finally allowing almost half its population to get behind the wheel.
A royal decree has been issued that will allow women in the country to drive, the Saudi Foreign ministry said Tuesday on its official Twitter account.
A committee has been formed to implement the ruling and it will present recommendations within 30 days.
Then the government will have until June 24, 2018, to implement the new decree.
"This is a historic big day in our kingdom," Prince Khaled bin Salman, Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the US, said Tuesday in a briefing with reporters.
State Department spokesman Heather Nauert said the US "would certainly welcome that" news.
The move to ease restrictions on women has huge implications for the Saudi economy and women's ability to work.
It is just the latest in a series of changes that have been rippling through Saudi Arabia since the rise of 32-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
The crown prince, known casually as "MBS," is spearheading an ambitious plan to reform and transform the Saudi economy by 2030 and, in line with that goal, increase the number of women in the workforce.
"A huge step"

Ambassador bin Salman described the step as "part of Vision 2030, which is a huge step toward a brighter future."
That plan for the country's economic reinvention rests on a number of pillars, including youth empowerment, social organization and women's empowerment, "which is an extremely important element of the changes happening in Saudi Arabia," the ambassador said.
"We are trying to increase women's participation in the workforce," bin Salman said.
"In order to change women's participation in the workforce we need them to be able to drive to work," said bin Salman, who is a son of the current king and a brother of the crown prince.
"We need them to move forward, we need them to improve our economy."
The crown prince, who was appointed by his father to the position in June, is seen as a major power in the country and is expected by many to be named king before too long.
Asked by CNN why the announcement was made now, ambassador bin Salman said, "there is no wrong time to do the right thing."
He added that "it's not religious nor a cultural issue" and said women "used to use transportation means during my grandfather's era."
He said that women will not have to get permission from their male guardians to take driving lessons.
"Legally there's nothing that can prevent it," the ambassador said, but he acknowledged that "there might be social issues."
He said that the choice will be up to women.
"It's not 'women must drive,' it's 'women can drive.'
"

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia follows a strict form of Wahhabi Islam that bans the mixing of sexes at public events and places numerous curbs on women.
These restrictions are enforced by religious police whose powers the crown prince has successfully lobbied to curtail since coming to power.
His success on that front is evident in the way Saudi Arabia, which is celebrating the 87th anniversary of its creation this month, has recently been easing some restrictions on women.
Women were allowed to enter a sports stadium for the first time on September 23, for a special pageant.
In May, King Salman decreed that government agencies should list services women can seek without permission from their husbands, fathers or other male guardian.
He also ordered organizations to provide transportation for female employees -- a step that eased one hurdle to women's employment given that public transportation is virtually non-existent.
Before May, women weren't able to access government services without getting permission from a male guardian or having him present.
There have also been some easing of restrictions on women's ability to work in the fields of law and education.
In 2015, women were elected to municipal councils for the first time.
Members of the Saudi royal family have been signaling an easing on women's ability to drive for months now.
In May, Prince Faisal Bin Abdullah, a former education minister, told a privately owned TV channel that he had "no doubt" women would one day be able to drive in his country.
"Let me tell you about our leadership's view on women," he said.
"Never mind driving a car, which is coming, no doubt ...
I want her to drive society."
Another prominent prince, Alwaleed bin Talal, wrote a December blog post that pushed for authorities to allow women to drive , saying that the ban curtailed their rights and hurt the economy because it made it harder for women to work.
In 2013, a campaign to defy the government ban on women driving saw dozens get behind the wheel and post photos of themselves driving on social media.
They were quickly cut short by authorities and several spoke to CNN about their fear of retaliation in the aftermath.
Ambassador bin Salman said the decree is part of a historical arc.
"We have a young and dynamic society that is young and more open."
He added that the decision is "part of a process that's happening since 1932" when the country was founded.
Washington (CNN) House Speaker Paul Ryan called the desperate conditions in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria "a humanitarian crisis" shortly before President Donald Trump announced plans to visit the island on Tuesday.
As images of complete devastation and millions struggling to recover with major power outages days after the storm hit Ryan made a point to say that those in Puerto Rico "need to know they are in our thoughts and our prayers."
"This is our own country and these are our fellow citizens.
They need our help and they are going to get our help," Ryan pledged.
Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer of New York pushed for a vote this week on disaster aid for the US territory.
"The administration should prepare an immediate and interim emergency aid request and the majority leader should put that package on the floor of the Senate before we leave this week.
Anything less would be an abject failure of our duty to come to the aid of our fellow US citizens," Schumer said Tuesday.
Read More
(CNN) At least a half-dozen top Trump administration officials used private email accounts to communicate about White House business, according to the New York Times .
That group includes family members / senior advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner as well as departed top aides including Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon.
Now, try to remember all the way back to, well, last year when then candidate Trump framed his entire campaign around the idea that Hillary Clinton's use of a private email and private server as secretary of state amounted to criminal conduct.
"She would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I would say," Trump told a Michigan audience just more than a week before the 2016 election.
"So we'd have a criminal trial of a sitting president."
The "Lock Her Up" chant -- which an audience in Alabama chanted on Friday night, more than 300 days after the 2016 election -- became the defining rallying cry for Trump voters.
Trump might be uncouth.
He might be make offensive comments about women.
But, Clinton was a criminal, Trump supporters claimed!
(Neither Clinton nor anyone on her staff were ever charged with a crime.)
Before we go any further, it's important to note that what Clinton did is not the exact same thing that Jared, Ivanka and others are reportedly doing.
Clinton exclusively used her private email address for government business.
She had a private email server at her home in Chappaqua, New York.
She shared classified materials via that email address although, she has long contended, the materials were not classified at the time.
According to the Times, all of the Trump administration officials used their private addresses only occasionally and all had official accounts set up and operating.
Still.
Think of it this way: You are running a race against someone else through the woods.
That person falls in a hole.
You win.
The next time you run through those same woods, you would think you would make sure to be on the lookout for the hole, right?
Like, you would be HYPER sensitive to that pitfall -- and any other ones like it, right?
(Yes, I watched the second "Hunger Games" movie last night.)
What these Trump officials have done is sprint into the same damn hole that swallowed Clinton's campaign whole.
And, in so doing, they've raised all of the same questions that Clinton's email use did.
Do they think the rules don't apply to them?
Do they think they can just do whatever they want because of their position and power?
What are they trying to hide in these private accounts?
And, it also raises a question that Clinton never had to contend with: Did the Trump campaign actually believe all that stuff they said about the dangers posed by Clinton's email conduct?
If so, why did they go anywhere near doing the same thing?
The official White House line was surprisingly scoldy about the new email revelations.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work," said White House press secretary Sarah Sanders.
"They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts."
This story won't be going away any time soon.
Not only does it look like rank hypocrisy, it also potentially ties into special counsel Bob Mueller's investigation into Russia influence in the 2016 election.
What do these emails on private accounts say?
Will they be released publicly?
If not, why not?
"The new e-mail release is a disaster for Hillary Clinton," Trump proclaimed in January 2016.
"At a minimum, how can someone with such bad judgment be our next president?"
Don't be surprised if this latest story prompts some of those same questions to be asked of the men and women in Trump's inner circle.
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump issued a familiar warning to North Korea on Tuesday, saying the US is prepared to use "devastating" military action if necessary -- as two US defense officials tell CNN that the rogue nation has moved a small number of fighter jets, external fuel tanks and air-to-air missiles to a base on its eastern coast to boost military readiness.
The officials would not go beyond saying a small number of assets had been moved by the regime to a known airfield in the eastern part of the country.
The move was seen in US satellite imagery and is viewed by the US as a North Korean effort to boost its military readiness in the eastern sector.
It would give the aircraft an ability to fly eastward further than its estimated 900-mile range.
Imagery so far has observed Mig-29 aircraft at the site.
Some missiles and fuel tanks are on the planes, but for now, no single jet is carrying both the external fuel tanks and the missiles.
On Monday, the North Korean regime has threatened to shoot down US aircraft flying off its coastline even if they are in international airspace.
Read More
(CNN) The collapse Tuesday of Senate Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act caps a brutal stretch for Mitch McConnell.
The Senate majority leader is facing withering criticism from President Donald Trump -- who described him as "unpopular" -- and many conservative Republicans who blame him for failing to accomplish the party's top legislative goal despite years of promises and months of negotiations.
"We haven't given up on changing the American health care system, we are not going to be able to do that this week," a disappointed McConnell told reporters, as time ticked toward a deadline at the end of the month when the GOP will lose the ability to pass an Obamacare repeal bill on a party-line vote.
The difficult decision to pull a second major repeal bill came the same day the veteran Kentucky Republican faced two other thorny political challenges.
First, the McConnell-backed candidate in the runoff for an Alabama senate seat, Sen. Luther Strange, faced a possible defeat to a far-right conservative, Judge Roy Moore, who is highly critical of McConnell and his establishment bona fides.
"I'm now enemy No.
1," Moore warned McConnell in a recent fundraising message, a reflection of how difficult Moore could make things if he wins a seat in the McConnell-led chamber.
Conservative voices off Capitol Hill also gunned for McConnell.
At a rally for Moore this week, the politically powerful former Trump adviser Steve Bannon blasted McConnell and made clear he wants him out

"Mitch McConnell and this permanent political class is the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country," Bannon declared.
Asked if a loss for Strange would negatively impact McConnell's reputation on Capitol Hill, conservative Alabama GOP Rep. Bradley Byrne said: "The Senate is such a clubby place I can't begin to tell you how it will affect him in the Senate."
But, he added, "House Republicans are already unhappy with the Senate.
That's not a secret and I don't think this will make this any worse but it is indicative of broader unhappiness among the Republican electorate."
Corker announcement

The second political challenge for McConnell came when Sen. Bob Corker, the two-term Republican from Tennessee and chairman of the foreign relations committee, who has been a McConnell ally and steady presence in the GOP conference, announced he would retire rather than run again

McConnell had urged Corker to stay on, Senate sources told CNN, and his decision to leave opens the seat to possible Democratic takeover, albeit in a reliably Republican state.
Before the repeal bill was officially ditched, the leader of a group of conservative GOP House members cautioned McConnell "all options" would be "on the table" to challenge McConnell if he didn't deliver on the Republican agenda.
"We would hope that the majority leader would listen to his constituents as much as we listen to ours throughout the states we represent," said Rep. Mark Walker, R-North Carolina, who chairs the influential and conservative Republican Study Committee.
"We hope he can deliver on those promises but if not then we put all options on the table."
While Walker has no vote in Senate leadership elections, he can whip up political opposition and raise doubts about McConnell staying in power.
McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, are accustomed to rabble rousers on their right flanks.
Both had promised drama-free governing that would try to pass spending bills on time and operate the mechanisms of government smoothly.
But they also promised again and again to repeal Obamacare -- something anti-big government conservatives chaffed for -- perhaps without fully recognizing how difficult that might be.
Several Senate Republicans downplayed the notion McConnell's leadership post was endangered.
It would fall to them to vote him out and there was little evidence they were prepared to take that step now.
"This isn't Mitch's fault.
The fault that we got here is that we have too many people running around like a bunch of free-range chicken," said Sen. John Kennedy, R-Louisiana, about the convoluted health care negotiations that divided the moderate and conservative members of the Senate GOP conference.
"We have failed as a caucus.
It's not just leadership, it's membership," said Sen. David Purdue, R-Georgia, when asked if McConnell should stay on as GOP leader.
Almost all Republican senators said it was time to turn to tax reform, the next big policy goal for Trump and congressional Republicans that they hope will unify the GOP across the spectrum and provide a major legislative accomplishment for voters before the midterm elections.
"There was no talk of changing leadership or anything else," said Sen. John Hoeven, R-North Dakota.
"As far as our leadership structure, I don't hear anybody saying that's changing.
The focus is all on getting taxes really done by the end of the year and continuing to work on health care."
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, who co-authored and championed the bill defended McConnell.
"The leadership team has done everything we've asked them," Graham said.
One GOP senator who has clashed with McConnell in the past was asked if, considering the health care debacle, McConnell is still an effective leader.
"He certainly led us to the confirmation of (Supreme Court Justice Neil) Gorsuch," replied Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wisconsin, in a sarcastic reference to what McConnell critics see as the only major accomplishment for Republicans since they've had unified control of Congress and the White House.
"Listen, these are very difficult issues.
It's not easy herding cats.
I honestly don't envy leadership their tasks," Johnson added.
(CNN) Multiple current and former White House officials have used private email for official administration correspondence, CNN has learned.
At least four top current and former White House officials occasionally used private email in their official capacity as White House officials, sources told CNN.
The New York Times reported Monday night that that "at least six" officials used private email to conduct White House business after Politico first reported that Jared Kushner , the President's son-in-law and senior adviser, periodically used a private email account.
The use of private email was a defining issue of the 2016 presidential election, when then-candidate Trump frequently slammed his opponent Hillary Clinton's use of a private server during her time as secretary of state.
Several of the emails Clinton sent or received were later determined to be classified by various government agencies , though Clinton had said that none of the emails were marked classified at the time she sent them.
There was no indication that the White House officials who used personal email maintained their accounts on a private server or that they shared classified information.
Former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, former chief strategist Steve Bannon and others occasionally used personal email during their time at the White House, two sources with knowledge of the emails told CNN.
Kushner's lawyer Abbe Lowell also confirmed to CNN on Sunday that Kushner occasionally used a private email account for correspondence with fellow administration officials.
"Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," Lowell said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
Lowell said that the emails on Kushner's private account were "usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
White House officials are advised to use their official White House email addresses for official business and though it is not illegal to use personal email, federal law requires all White House records -- including emails -- be preserved.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.
"They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts."
While the White House has not issued any new warnings or guidance, one source said lawyers in the Office of the White House Counsel periodically remind White House staff to forward any personal emails to their official account to ensure they are recorded in accordance with the Presidential Records Act.
Kushner did just that, Lowell said, noting that "all non-personal emails were forwarded to his official address, and all have been preserved, in any event."
Ivanka Trump, an assistant to the President, also used her private email to correspond with administration officials about working on policy issues before she was officially named to a White House position in March.
According to The New York Times, Stephen Miller, a top adviser and presidential speechwriter, and National Economic Council director Gary Cohn also used private email accounts.
CNN has not independently verified this reporting.
Documents obtained by watchdog group American Oversight via a Freedom of Information Act request found two emails sent by Ivanka Trump's private email address to Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon on the topic of women's entrepreneurship.
The emails were sent February 28, nearly a month before Trump formally stepped into her White House role as assistant to the President.
However, she referred to White House staffer Julie Radford as "my chief of staff" in one of the emails.
Washington (CNN) White House chief of staff John Kelly was not pleased with the fight that erupted over the weekend between President Donald Trump and National Football League players who protest by kneeling during the national anthem, two administration officials told CNN.
Trump has been on a three-day crusade since he first commented on the protests at a rally in Alabama Friday , when he said that coaches should get the "son of a bitch" off the field if the player continued to kneel.
His chief of staff, a lifelong Marine who was brought in to introduce order into the West Wing, is attuned to race issues and voiced his concern about the matter, one official said.
In a brief interview Monday evening, Kelly told CNN he is "appalled" by what he sees as a lack of respect for the flag and national anthem.
"I believe every American, when the national anthem is played, should cover their hearts and think about all the men and women who have been maimed and killed," Kelly said.
"Every American should stand up and think for three lousy minutes."
His son, Robert Michael Kelly, was killed in combat in Afghanistan in 2010.
Kelly declined to talk about the President's decision to wade into the issue.
White House officials say they believe this will blow over, but did not know how long the President would keep it alive.
Two distinct issues are driving the national debate: Believing players should stand during National Anthem and the question of whether it's wise for a president to make issue of it.
After the story appeared on CNN, the President criticized the network, calling it "fake news."
"@CNN is #FakeNews.
Just reported COS (John Kelly) was opposed to my stance on NFL players disrespecting FLAG, ANTHEM, COUNTRY.
Total lie!"
the President wrote

"General John Kelly totally agrees w/ my stance on NFL players and the fact that they should not be disrespecting our FLAG or GREAT COUNTRY!"
he said in a second tweet

Kelly attended the Alabama rally and Trump brought him on stage for praise just minutes before he made his NFL comments.
Kelly was unaware Trump was going to wade into a culture war just moments later, an official said.
The comments were not included in his prepared remarks.
Though they drew immediate criticism, Trump has not relented.
The next day he called for NFL fans to boycott games unless the league fired or suspended players who refuse to stand for the national anthem, and has tweeted more than a dozen times about the matter.
Two sources close to Trump -- one inside the White House and one outside -- said they have never heard the President complain this vociferously about the NFL protests before.
But Trump has previously singled out former San Francisco 49er quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who drew national attention last year for protesting police brutality, especially aimed at African-Americans, by refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
"It was reported that NFL owners don't want to pick him up because they don't want to get a nasty tweet from Donald Trump," he said during a campaign-like rally in Louisville, Kentucky.
"Do you believe that?
I just saw that.
I just saw that."
Yet Trump has typically only spoken in glowing terms of his relationships with people in the league, such as New England Patriots Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft and quarterback Tom Brady.
Both Kraft and Brady have distanced themselves from Trump's remarks.
"I certainly disagree with what he said," Brady said during an interview on sports radio Monday.
"I thought it was just divisive."
"I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday," Kraft said.
"I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities."
Though Kelly has sought to instill discipline in a chaotic White House, it's becoming clear there are two things he can't control: what the President says off-the-cuff and what he tweets.
The question now is whether Kelly can now persuade Trump to move on from his battle with the NFL, but one official said he shouldn't count on it.
JUST WATCHED White House holds briefing amid NFL backlash (full) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White House holds briefing amid NFL backlash (full) 27:46

Kelly was also frustrated with the President after he said there was "blame on both sides" of the deadly clashes in Charlottesville.
He was part of a group of senior advisers who had convinced the President days earlier to more forcefully declare that neo-Nazis and KKK members were "repugnant" after he had condemned them in muted terms at first.
Trump, who often veers off-script when he is surrounded by supporters at his rallies, later said the words "were perfect."
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended the President's comments from the briefing room podium Monday, saying that they were not intended to be divisive.
"This isn't about the President being against anyone," Sanders said.
"This is about the President and millions of American being for something" -- like "honoring our flag."
"We certainly respect the rights that people have," Sanders said.
"This is about the President being for respect in our country, through symbols like the American flag, like the national anthem."
But his remarks struck many as stoking racial resentments because the players he criticized were black and their protests were meant to highlight racial injustice.
Trump, however, told reporters Sunday his objections had nothing to do with race.
Story highlights "This is about the President and millions of American being for something," Sanders said

"We certainly respect the rights that people have," she said

Washington (CNN) White House press secretary Sarah Sanders suggested Monday that NFL players protesting police brutality should focus their protests on police officers on the sidelines of NFL games rather than kneeling during the national anthem.
"I think if this -- the debate is really for them about police brutality they should probably protest the officers on the field who are protecting them instead of the American flag," Sanders said.
She later clarified that she wasn't suggesting people protest police, but was pointing out that it is inappropriate to protest the flag over their concerns.
"No, no that's not what I'm saying.
I was kind of pointing out the hypocrisy of the fact that if the goal is and the message is one of police brutality, then that doesn't seem very appropriate to protest the American flag.
I'm not sure how those two things would be combined," Sanders said.
She also defended President Donald Trump's remarks criticizing NFL players who kneel for the national anthem.
Read More
Story highlights Donors are attending the dinner at the ritzy French restaurant Le Cirque

They will spend at least $35,000 per couple

New York (CNN) President Donald Trump on Tuesday evening is expected to raise about $5 million at a high-dollar fundraiser here with some of his wealthiest supporters.
A week ago, the Republican National Committee revealed it is paying in part for the President's personal legal bills stemming from the federal investigation into the Trump campaign's potential role in the Russian meddling into the 2016 election.
Trump will sit down Tuesday evening with about 150 donors who are ponying up to support his 2020 reelection campaign, the GOP's political efforts and, in some cases, the RNC legal fund bearing the cost of some of his attorney fees.
Republican donors attending the dinner at the ritzy French restaurant Le Cirque will be spending at least $35,000 per couple.
A $100,000 donation will get a couple of donors "VIP access," while anything over $250,000 will get donors a seat at a table with the President ahead of his remarks, an RNC official said.
The fundraiser is the first Trump has attended since the RNC confirmed last week that it paid two of Trump's personal attorneys representing him in the Russia-related investigations more than $230,000, via their law firms, in August.
The RNC has also spent nearly $200,000 to support the legal fees of Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump, Jr., who became a focus of the investigation after he admitted to meeting with a Russian attorney last summer he believed would provide him with incriminating information about Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton from the Russian government.
Read More
Story highlights President Trump will travel to Puerto Rico next Tuesday

The island was devastated by Hurricane Maria

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump said he will travel to storm-ravaged Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
Speaking in the Roosevelt Room, Trump said it was the earliest date he could reach the devastated island due to first responders' ongoing relief and recovery efforts.
Trump said the US territory was "literally destroyed."
"I know many Puerto Ricans, and they're great people and we have to help them.
It really was devastated.
Some people say, I read it this morning, it's literally destroyed," he said, adding, "The infrastructure was in bad shape as you know in Puerto Rico before the storm, and now in many cases, it has no infrastructure, so it's, you're really starting from almost scratch."
He said he may also stop in the US Virgin Islands during the Tuesday trip.
Read More
Story highlights Trump is currently embroiled in a five-day controversy with the NFL

"Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands," Trump said

(CNN) President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he has "not at all" been "preoccupied" by the NFL and the controversy surrounding the National Anthem.
"I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL," Trump told reporters in the Rose Garden.
"I was ashamed of what was taking place."
Trump is currently embroiled in a five-day controversy with the NFL since he first commented on players protesting the National Anthem at a rally in Alabama on Friday.
Between Friday and midday Tuesday, Trump tweeted 24 times about the NFL, but only four times about Puerto Rico , which has been plunged into a humanitarian crisis in the wake of Hurricane Maria.
"Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands," Trump said defending his time spent on the subject.
"All I do is work."
Trump specifically defended himself against claims he was distracted from responding to the devastation in Puerto Rico, calling himself "totally focused".
Read More
"Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!," he said in one .
"The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard," he wrote in another .
"Great anger."
Those tweets followed on Trump's comments at a meeting with conservative leaders at the White House on Monday in which he expressed satisfaction with the last five days of tweets, protests and debate over what the National Anthem actually means -- and who it's for.
"It's really caught on.
It's really caught on," Trump reportedly told the assembled conservatives.
"I said what millions of Americans were thinking."
Ratings.
Booing.
Great anger.
Really caught on.
Trump's decision to start this feud with NFL players -- and professional athletes more broadly -- is a telling window into how he views (and uses) the power of the presidency: To divide, not to unite.
To forever focus on scoring political points, to please and placate the political base that helped elect him to the White House.
To always, always, always look for where we disagree -- and where those disagreements can be exploited for his own gain.
That is, at root, a fundamental departure from the way that previous presidents have operated.
Every man to hold the White House prior to Trump seemed to have an innate grasp of the power of the presidency and how to use it.
Think of the presidency like a lighthouse.
Anywhere a president chooses to shine that light will be illuminated.
It will drive attention to it and media coverage of it.
The bully pulpit may not be as bully-ish as it once was, but when the president prioritizes an issue, it becomes an issue that people and the press can't ignore.
For most presidents, that means shining a light on our common humanity -- whether it's helping bind the country together after a terrorist attack or a natural disaster or the more mundane daily work of reminding people that much more unites us than divides us.
Trump has inverted that.
He seems bent on reminding us on what divides us rather than what unites us.
In the midst of what the governor of Puerto Rico has said is a crisis of epic proportions caused by Hurricane Maria, Trump has stayed largely silent on the matter -- breaking that silence only to tweet about the country's "broken infrastructure & massive debt."
Instead of rallying the country behind the 3.4 million American citizens who live in Puerto Rico, Trump has instead sent more than a dozen tweets about the NFL and the alleged lack of patriotism demonstrated by players who kneel or sit during the National Anthem.
(Worth noting here: The origin of the anthem protests was the violence against black men by police officers.
It had -- and has -- absolutely nothing to do with dishonoring our military or the flag.)
Because Trump has a finely-tuned ear for what will resonate with his political base.
And casting himself as the voice of the people against rich, entitled and primarily black athletes -- yes, of course, race is tied up in this -- is a strong place to be for some not-small element of his base.
Whether he wants to admit it to himself or not, Trump is purposely playing on lingering racial resentment and animus in the country to remind people of what divides us.
And he is doing so because he knows it will work.
It's the same reason he suggested he saw Muslims celebrating on New Jersey rooftops on September 11, 2001.
And the same reason he failed to condemn white supremacist David Duke for days during the campaign.
And why he sought to cast the white supremacist protests in Charlottesville as the result of violent people "on many sides."
Trump ran as a divider, not a uniter.
He won that way -- offering safe harbor for people who had long resented politicians who told them they had to accept those who didn't look like them, sound like them or think like them.
Divisiveness works in politics -- especially in a fractured media environment in which you can spend your life never being confronted with a reasonable argument that clashes with your worldview and in a self-sorted America in which we live, work and play around only people who agree with us on, well, everything.
Casting people who disagree with you as "other" -- and ensuring "other" = bad -- made for a winning political strategy for Trump.
But, winning isn't an end in and of itself.
Or any sort of legacy.
The key -- for Trump and for any other winners out there -- is what you do once you grab the brass ring.
Past presidents understood that the campaign was one thing and governing was another.
That being president bestowed on you the responsibility of always trying to take the high road, always doing the right thing for the country rather than the best thing for your party or yourself.
Trump has flipped that approach on its head.
He does what's good for him first, then what he believes to be good for the GOP and, finally, what's good for the country.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Fairhope, Alabama (CNN) The anti-establishment right is on a mission in Tuesday's Republican Senate primary here to save President Donald Trump from himself.
Yes, Trump endorsed Sen. Luther Strange over Roy Moore to fill the seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
But two of Trump's key 2016 campaign allies say to forget that, saying that Strange is tainted by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and $10 million in advertising muscle from a McConnell-aligned super PAC.
"They think you're a pack of morons.
They think you're nothing but rubes," said Steve Bannon, Trump's campaign chief executive and, until his recent ouster, White House chief strategist.
Inside a sweaty barn south of Mobile, Bannon told voters that ignoring Trump's endorsement and voting for Moore is the way to support Trump's agenda.
"We did not come here to defy Donald Trump.
We came here to praise and honor him," Bannon said.
A Moore win would "rejuvenate" the movement Trump started, said Nigel Farage, the British "Brexit" champion.
"This point about getting Judge Roy Moore is to help the President, isn't it?"
he said, as the crowd packed into a Southern Alabama barn shouted, "Yes!"
"Sometimes you've got to show tough love to your own guys," said Tim James, the son of former Republican Gov.
Bob James.
Trump, James said, is "gonna think twice before he jumps in a family feud again."
The bitter intra-party battle for the seat Sessions vacated in February comes to an end Tuesday.
But a win by Moore -- which national and state Republicans acknowledge is a strong possibility -- would inject fuel into anti-establishment candidates' bids to unseat several other sitting Senate Republicans.
Already, Bannon is backing Danny Tarkanian over Sen. Dean Heller in Nevada and Kelli Ward over Sen. Jeff Flake in Arizona.
Republican primaries in the 10 Democratic-held Senate seats in states Trump won that are on the ballot in 2018 could see similar brawls.
It's part of why the McConnell-aligned Senate Leadership Fund has spent $10 million in the primary to boost Strange and tear down Moore.
The other part of the McConnell camp's calculus: Moore, who was twice ousted as state Supreme Court chief justice -- once for refusing to remove a Ten Commandments monument, then for ignoring the US Supreme Court's same-sex marriage ruling -- campaigns on installing Christianity at the center of American public life and rejecting LGBT rights.
His long history of controversial remarks would be a fundraising boon for Democrats, and would lead to uncomfortable questions for Republican senators about whether they agree or disagree with their new colleague.
For his part, Moore seemed to be animated on the campaign trail by the spending against his relatively shoestring campaign.
"Will we send them a message?
Very clear -- Alabama can't be bought," he said Monday night.
"Mitch McConnell needs to be replaced!"
The irony of the pro-Moore crowd's insistence that he, not Strange, would be a more reliable ally, is that Moore has broken with Trump on health care -- saying he'd vote against the latest GOP Obamacare repeal bill because it doesn't fully eliminate the law.
For Trump, the fate of Strange -- a reliable vote in the Senate and someone who brags about his "close, personal friendship" with the President -- will demonstrate just how strongly his word can influence the outcome of GOP battles.
A Strange win could ease the concerns of some other Republican lawmakers who fear primary battles.
Trump has spent heavily from his own political capital in the Alabama race.
The President visited Huntsville for a raucous Friday night rally, and Vice President Mike Pence was on hand Monday night in Birmingham to close out Strange's campaign.
Sensing the danger of McConnell's support for Strange, Trump also called into Alabama's "The Rick and Bubba Show" Monday morning to insist that the two senators hardly know each other.
"As you know, Mitch is not, polling-wise, the most popular guy in this country," Trump said.
"They like to label (Strange) because he happened to be there for a number of months in the Senate, so they like to label him as Mitch's best friend but he's not.
He hardly even knows him.
He'll be fighting Mitch."
Trump pledged Friday night in Huntsville to campaign for Moore if he won.
But in Monday's radio interview, he warned that Moore would face a stiff fight against Democratic nominee Doug Jones in the December general election.
"Roy Moore is going to have a very hard time getting elected against the Democrat," Trump said.
"And Luther, they won't even be fighting."
FILE - Drug Enforcement Administration acting head Chuck Rosenberg at the Department of Justice, April 18, 2017, in Washington.
The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chuck Rosenberg, told staff at DEA headquarters Tuesday that he'll be stepping down next week.
As NBC News reports, Rosenberg thanked his staff and DEA agents in an email.
"The neighborhoods in which we live are better for your commitment to the rule of law, dedication to the cause of justice, and perseverance in the face of adversity," it read.
A close friend of former FBI Director James Comey, Rosenberg was considered unlikely to remain in the Trump administration after Comey's firing.
The New York Times reported that Rosenberg said he had become convinced that President Trump had little respect for the law.
Protesters Removed From Senate Health Care Bill Hearing
A U.S. Coast Guard boat escorts the Royal Caribbean's Majesty of the Seas cruise ship transporting families evacuated from Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma, in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Sept. 14, 2017.
As Puerto Rico struggles amid mass power outages and food and water shortages, some politicians and experts say that one 97-year-old maritime law will make recovering from the disaster much more difficult.
The Jones Act, passed after World War I to protect the U.S. ship-building industry, requires that domestic shipping must be conducted by U.S.-owned, U.S.-made ships staffed by American crews.
This has meant that Puerto Rico, an island that relies on imports from the U.S., pays more than twice as much as neighboring islands for American goods, according to a report by former International Monetary Fund economists.
Nydia Velzquez, a Puerto Rican-born congresswoman who represents parts of New York City, is leading the call for a one-year suspension of the act while the island rebuilds from hurricane damage.
"The island is now facing an unprecedented uphill battle to rebuild its homes, businesses and communities," said Velzquez in a letter written to the Department of Homeland Security on Monday and signed by seven other members of Congress.
"Temporarily loosening these requirements  for the express purpose of disaster recovery  will allow Puerto Rico to have more access to the oil needed for its power plants, food, medicines, clothing, and building supplies."
Protesters Removed From Senate Health Care Bill Hearing

Protesters chanting "No cuts for Medicaid, save our liberty!"
were forcibly removed from the Senate Finance Committee room Monday as lawmakers attempted to convene a hearing into the Republican Graham Cassidy health care bill.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

The Department of Homeland Security suspended the Jones Act on Sept. 8 because of disruptions of the oil supply system after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, but the waiver expired on Sept. 22.
Hurricane Maria hit on Sept. 20, knocking out all power to the island and nearly all cell phone towers.
"My expectation is to rebuild stronger than ever," Gov.
Ricardo Rossello told NBC News.
"But clearly if this is not taken seriously ... Puerto Rico is going to collapse into a humanitarian crisis."
The Trump administration said this week it would not extend the waiver for Puerto Rico.
A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security said Tuesday that officials think that waiving the Jones Act would be unnecessary.
An assessment by Customs and Border Protection, an office of Homeland Security, showed there was "sufficient capacity" of U.S.-flagged vessels to move commodities to Puerto Rico, said spokesman Gregory Moore, in a statement to Reuters.
"The limitation is going to be port capacity to offload and transit, not vessel availability," Moore said.
Democratic Rep. Luis V. Gutirrez from Illinois on Tuesday criticized leaving the Jones Act in place, amid Puerto Rico's financial crisis.
The territory has been in a severe recession since 2006 and declared a form of bankruptcy earlier this year.
Gutirrez, who was among those who signed Velzquezs letter to the Department of Homeland Security, said the U.S. government should suspend the Jones Act at least for a decade if not repeal it permanently.
"Since it was imposed on Puerto Rico, the Jones Act has cost Puerto Rican consumers more than all the money owed to Wall Street, yet the president reminds us of the debt in his tweets," he said on the floor of Congress.
"Let the ships flow as quickly and as cheaply from wherever they may come from because this is an emergency."
Other politicians have spoken out in the past against the Jones Act for needlessly hurting Puerto Ricos economy.
Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona first introduced legislation to repeal the law in 2010 and tried again in July.
"I have long advocated the repeal of the Jones Act, an archaic and burdensome law that hinders free trade, stifles the economy, and ultimately harms consumers," he said.
On Tuesday, McCain said he was urging the Department of Homeland Security to waive the act for Puerto Rico to aid its recovery efforts.
In a letter to Acting Secretary Elaine Duke, he also asked that it assess how a long-term waiver or full repeal would effect hurricane-damaged communities, including those in Florida and Texas.
Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'

Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James spoke Monday about the NFL protest saying President Trump is trying to divide the nation.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

Economists at the University of Puerto Rico found that the Jones Act cost the islands economy $17 billion between 1990 and 2010, according to a 2012 report.
Republican Rep. Gary Palmer of Alabama cited this study in 2016 when he, too, called for Puerto Rico to be exempt from the Jones Act.
Three American territories are exempt from the Jones Act: the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam and American Samoa.
Other studies have said the Jones Act costs Puerto Rico, Hawaii and Alaska about $2.8 billion to $9.8 billion per year.
A report by the Government Accountability Office in 2013 said that although the Jones Act may make imports to the island more expensive, the dedicated routes also ensure reliability and keep more than 1,400 American jobs.
In April, the Trump administration had appeared to be moving forward with an Obama-era proposal to reverse the Jones Act, but it was withdrawn in May.
The Jones Act was last temporarily waived in December of 2012 so that petroleum products could be delivered for relief assistance after superstorm Sandy.
North Korean Minister: Trump Tweet Declared War

North Korea's top diplomat says President Donald Trump's tweet that leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer" amounted to a declaration of war against his country.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters Monday that what he called Trump's "declaration of war" gives North Korea "every right" under the U.N. Charter to take countermeasures, "including the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers even they're not yet inside the airspace border of our country."
Ri Yong also said that "all options will be on the operations table" for the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Ri referred to Trump's tweet Saturday that said: "Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

Op-eds in major national newspapers have endorsed calls to get rid of the act, including one published Monday in The New York Times by Nelson A. Denis, a former New York state assemblyman who has written extensively on Puerto Rico's economic crisis.
"A humanitarian crisis is about to explode in Puerto Rico," Denis wrote.
"But the consequences of Jones Act relief would be immediate and powerful.
This is not the time to price-gouge the entire population.
It is time for Congress to act ethically and responsibly and suspend the Jones Act in Puerto Rico."
The consequences of leaving the Jones Act in place could be dire for the 3.5 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico, some experts warn.
"It means extending the suffering," said Dennis Nixon, a professor of marine law at the University of Rhode Island.
"Its hot there today, theres a risk of thunder showers.
Theyve got no electricity, no drinking water."
Nixon said that it could lead to an even more painful financial crisis for Puerto Ricans, who might start leaving the island in a forced mass migration to the U.S.
He advocates suspending the act.
The Aurora Borealis as Seen From Space

The European Space Agency has released these images of the Aurora Borealis shot from the International Space Station.
The phenomenon occurs when electrically charged electrons and protons in the Earth's magenetic field collide with neutral atoms in the upper atmosphere.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

"It would hugely accelerate the ability to move goods into Puerto Rico, because youd basically be getting a 20 percent discount on everything," he said.
STATEMENT FROM SCA / Navy League / American Maritime Partnership

Jonathan Gutoff, a maritime law professor at the Roger Williams University School of Law in Bristol, Rhode Island, said that even though the Jones Act may not be hindering aid from reaching the island, it does increase prices for consumers and makes it harder for businesses to market their exports.
"Given that Puerto Rico is suffering from a fiscal crisis and the aftermath of Maria, anything to help Puerto Ricans should be done and the Jones Act should be suspended," he said.
Whether or not to repeal the act is a tougher question, Gutoff said.
Because of the role of the Jones Act in maintaining the American boat building industry for offshore work, more study should be done before a repeal, he said.
The American Maritime Partnership said it is actively working with the Trump administration, FEMA, The United States Maritime Administration (MARAD), and other relief organizations to deliver food, fuel, first aid supplies and building materials to Puerto Rico.
Approximately 9,500 containers of goods have already arrived on the island to help in recovery efforts, according to the partnership.
NFL Players Protest During National Anthem

AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

"A steady stream of additional supplies keeps arriving in Puerto Rico on American vessels and on international ships from around the world, said the charmain of the partnership, Thomas Allegretti.
The problem now is distributing supplies from Puerto Ricos ports inland by surface transportation."
The Shipbuilders Council of America did not immediately respond for comment on the Jones Act, but according to its website the council strongly supports the act, calling it "vital to Americas economic, national and homeland security."
Trump Defends Tweets, Says NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During National Anthem

The President defended his tweets regarding NFL players kneeling during the national anthem over the weekend, saying criticism that the issue distracted him from the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico was unfair.
Jared Kushner denies that he had any ties to Russia during President Trump's election campaign.
(Published Monday, July 24, 2017)

White House aides regularly used personal devices for official business, while at least six close advisers to President Donald Trump occasionally used private email addresses, both Politico and the New York Times reported on Monday, citing anonymous sources.
Former chief of staff Reince Priebus tried to stop the "rampant" use of personal devices for official business, CNBC reported.
He asked aides in a July meeting to store personal phones in secure lockers or leave them at home, Politico reported, citing meeting attendees.
Priebus' request was largely ignored, the Politico report said, citing six current and former administration officials, advisors and people who correspond with the White House.
The New York Times also reported, citing current and former officials, that at least six of Trump's closest advisers used private email addresses for White House business.
Two Chicago police officers face disciplinary action after taking a knee and putting their fists in the air in a photo shared on social media, authorities confirmed Monday.
Patrick Fazio reports.
Two Chicago police officers face disciplinary action after taking a knee and putting their fists in the air in a photo shared on social media, authorities confirmed Monday.
The image was posted to the Instagram account @englewoodbarbiewhich has nearly 30,000 followers.
The account features other photos of people taking a knee.
The Chicago Sun-Times reports the Instagram handle belongs to Englewood community activist Aleta Clark.
In the Instagram post, two uniformed Chicago police officers kneel with a woman.
One of the officers rests his hand on her shoulder.
The photo is paired with a caption that reads: That Moment when you walk into the police station and ask the Men of Color are they Against Police Brutality and Racism & they say Yes... then you ask them if they support Colin Kapernick... and they also say yes... then you ask them to Kneel.!
That Moment when you walk into the police station and ask the Men of Color are they Against Police Brutality and Racism & they say Yes... then you ask them if they support Colin Kapernick... and they also say yes... then you ask them to Kneel.!
#ColinKaepernick #WeSupportYou A post shared by Aleta (@englewoodbarbie) on Sep 24, 2017 at 11:34am PDT

CPDs code of conduct does not allow officers to participate "in any partisan political campaign or activity."
We are aware of the photo, and we will address it in the same way we have handled previous incidents in which officers have made political statements while in uniform, with a reprimand and a reminder of department policies, the department said in a statement.
The provocative post comes after President Donald Trumps sharp rebuke Friday of NFL players who protest during the national anthem at football games.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired, he's fired," Trump said at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat, then kneeled, for the playing of the anthem beginning in Aug. 2016.
He said he did it to call attention to the oppression of minorities across the United States.
Kaepernick's actions sparked a national conversation that several other NFL players joined, protesting on multiple occasions and continuing even after Kaepernick became a free agent at the end of the season.
The president has since found himself at the center of a feud with the NFL.
Many have vocalized that the display is an offense to military veterans; while others say it is a peaceful protest against racism and police brutality.
Martin Preib, a spokesman for the Fraternal Order of Police, said it was not appropriate to comment at this time, on the photo.
A follow up post on Clarks page says the cops pictured kneeling and raising their fists with her, reportedly in a South Side precinct, the officers are doing a noble thing.
Don't be Afraid to be Controversial..
I will stand behind them!
Go Bother the killers of Sandra Bland, Michael Brown, Tamar Rice, Trayvon Martin,Philando Castile and the list goes on and on.. these men did a Noble thing!
They let me know that even in uniform they're against Police Brutality & Racism!
They took a Kneel for Us when nobody else would that looked like them!
A post shared by Aleta (@englewoodbarbie) on Sep 25, 2017 at 2:53pm PDT

"The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race, Trump tweeted Monday morning.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!"
NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart responded Monday during a conference call defending players' rights to bring attention to social issues through peaceful protest.
"Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is," Lockhart said, in an apparent reference to the "Access Hollywood" tapes in which Trump bragged about sexually assaulting women.
Officers have faced reprimands in the past for actions such as leaving a red Make America Great Again hat on the dashboard of a police cruiser and playing Lynyrd Skynyrds Sweet Home Alabama at an anti-police violence demonstration.
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

Twitter said Monday that President Donald Trump's weekend tweet warning that North Korea "won't be around much longer!"
didn't violate its terms of service, which it said it would clarify publicly at a later date, NBC News reported.
Trump tweeted Sunday that if North Korea's foreign minister "echoed thoughts of Little Rocket Man [Trump's nickname for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un] they won't be around much longer!"
In a thread on its Public Policy page, the company said it had been asked why it didn't take down Trump's tweet in light of its rule reading: "You may not make threats of violence or promote violence, including threatening or promoting terrorism."
"We hold all accounts to the same rules, and consider a number of factors when assessing whether Tweets violate our Rules," the company said.
"Among the considerations is 'newsworthiness' and whether a Tweet is of public interest."
Trump: NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During Anthem
Protesters chanting "No cuts for Medicaid, save our liberty!"
were forcibly removed from the Senate Finance Committee room Monday as lawmakers attempted to convene a hearing into the Republican Graham Cassidy health care bill.
In this photo shared on Twitter on Sept. 24, 2017, World War II Veteran John Middlemas, 97, takes a knee in support of protesting NFL players.
A photo of a 97-year-old WWII veteran kneeling to show solidarity with protesting NFL players is being shared widely on social media after the vet's grandson posted it to Twitter Sunday.
Brennan Gilmore posted the photo of his grandfather, John Middlemas, around 7:30 a.m. Sunday, before National Football League players knelt during the national anthem, NBC News reported.
My grandpa is a 97-year-old WWII vet & Missouri farmer who wanted to join (with) those who #TakeaKnee: those kids have every right to protest, Gilmore wrote as a caption on the tweet.
As of Monday, the photo had been shared more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 377,000 users.
After President Donald Trump demanded that the NFL fire athletes who do not stand during the national anthem, more than 200 players knelt, sat or otherwise expressed protest during Sunday games across the country in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick and in opposition to the president's stance.
Here are past examples when U.S. athletes protested during competition.
Republicans may introduce another plan to repeal and replace Obamacare as early as Wednesday.
Senators Bill Cassidy, R-La., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., wrote the bill, which relies on block grants to the states.
"Take the money and power out of Washington, the same amount of money we would have spent on Obamacare, and let states design the systems," Senator Graham said.
Critics say the proposal would give states a chance for a waiver that could eliminate the requirement to cover pre-existing conditions.
It will be a close vote.
Several Republican senators spoke out against the plan, including Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who said safeguards for americans need to be stronger.
To entice senators on the fence or voting no, a revised Graham-Cassidy plan will be unveiled Monday giving more money to hold-out states.
As he prepared to board Air Force One to return to Washington from New Jersey on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, President Donald Trump said that NFL players protesting the national anthem are "very disrespectful to our country," calling again on team owners to stop what he considers unpatriotic displays in America's most popular sport.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

After his racially charged confrontation with athletes and sports teams about kneeling during the national anthem, President Donald Trump is getting a much-needed morale boost from his supporters who see the refusal to stand for the anthem as a show of disrespect, NBC News reported.
Trump made a fiery declaration on Friday that National Football League owners should "fire or suspend" players who kneel, which was met with criticism and protests on the field Sunday.
Republican strategists say Trump found an issue that reminds his supporters where he stands on cultural issues at a time when his allies are lining up against him, his effort to dismantle "Obamacare" is hanging by a thread and the president is teaming up with Democratic leaders.
"He is giving lots of red meat to his base to fire them up before a crucial election," GOP strategist John Feehery said of the Alabama Republican Senate runoff, which pits Trump-backed Sen. Luther Strange against anti-establishment favorite Roy Moore.
"I am fascinated by how the Democrats are falling into Trump's trap and fully backing the protesters."
Marc Short, White House director for legislative affairs, listens to a question during an off-camera press briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, July 10, 2017.
Despite a rushed timetable and the daunting task of pulling together enough votes, the White House is planning on a Senate vote on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill this week, White House Director of Legislative Affairs Marc Short said on Sundays Meet The Press, NBC News reported.
He claims they are aiming for Wednesday.
There are millions of Americans who will benefit from this bill, Short said.
In fact, we think every state will benefit.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who decides when the Senate could address the bill, has said they intend to vote this week on the legislation thats aimed at restructuring the U.S. health care system and repealing some of the signature elements of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
A wall along the Mexico border isnt President Donald Trumps only proposal to curtail immigration into the United States.
Trump also wants to limit legal immigration into the U.S. by, among other revisions, making it more difficult for immigrants to qualify for a visa.
The proposed changes to current immigration law are outlined in a bill called the Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act, which was first introduced by Republican Sens.
Tom Cotton and David Perdue in February.
Under the proposed bill, qualifying for a visa would move to whats called a points-based system.
An applicant would earn points for achievements in six separate areas, including age, English-speaking proficiency and whether or not he or she has a lucrative job offer in the United States.
English proficiency is measured by a score an applicant receives on a pre-approved language test.
The higher the test score, the more points earned toward the visa.
Similarly, the more lucrative a job offer an applicant has, the more points he or she will receive.
The job-offer points are measured in relation to the median household income of the state where the job is being offered.
Applicants who have a job that is three times the state's median income, for example, will earn the most points toward the visa application.
Take this quiz to see if you'd be able to apply for a visa if the RAISE Act was signed into law.
A total of 30 points are needed to apply.
Republican leaders won't hold a vote this week on their Obamacare replacement plan, the Graham-Cassidy bill, after three members of the Senate said they wouldn't approve the measure.
The Graham-Cassidy bill was the Republicans' latest bid to honor a years-long promise to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, the signature legislation of the Obama administration, and their latest defeat on the issue.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., one of the sponsors of the legislation, vowed to return to health care after tax reform and said it was not a matter of "if" but "when" health reform is achieved.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said that the Senate would turn to tax reform.
In a statement, the bills four authors -- Graham, Bill Cassidy, R-La., Dean Heller R-Nev., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis. -- said the bills failure came down to circumstances under our control and not under our control, the process and timing of this vote did not line up this time.
We will push on, they wrote.
The most frequent frustration we heard from our colleagues ranging from Sen. McCain to Sen. Murkowski was that time and process were the biggest obstacles to their support.
There is no doubt about their commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and no doubt about their support of local control, they continued.
It is just a matter of time until we fulfill our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare with something far better.
For the American people, when it comes to Obamacare, the worst is yet to come.
That is why we believe Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson is needed and will eventually pass.
Under current budget reconciliation rules, Senate Republicans could not reach a simple majority of 51 votes to pass Graham-Cassidy before Sept. 30.
Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., the chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced in a statement that he won't be running for re-election next year.
"After much thought, consideration and family discussion over the past year, Elizabeth and I have decided that I will leave the United States Senate when my term expires at the end of 2018," he said in a statement Tuesday, referring to his wife.
"When I ran for the Senate in 2006, I told people that I couldnt imagine serving for more than two terms," he continued.
"Understandably, as we have gained influence, that decision has become more difficult.
But I have always been drawn to the citizen legislator model, and while I realize it is not for everyone, I believe with the kind of service I provide, it is the right one for me."
An early ally of Donald Trump's and at one time considered a potential Trump running mate, Corker has been a willing critic of the president in recent months.
In the aftermath of the violent white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, Corker said Trump "has not yet been able to demonstrate the stability nor some of the competence that he needs to be successful."
Corker said in his statement that he wishes to continue his involvement in public service and that representing Tennessee in the Senate "has been the greatest privilege of my life."
He added that he and his staff "will continue to have an impact for the remainder of our term."
Corker is in his second term in the Senate, after first being elected in 2006.
He previously served as the mayor of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
President Donald Trump indicated again Tuesday a willingness to take military action with regard to North Korea, a day after that country's foreign minister accused the American president of declaring war.
"We are totally prepared for [a military option]," said Trump at a White House press conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.
"Not a preferred option, but if we take that option, it will be devastating."
On Monday, North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York that after Trump's remarks at the United Nations last week -- in which he threatened to "destroy" the country -- "Our country has every right to make countermeasures."
The foreign minister added that such "countermeasures" included "shoot[ing] down United States strategic bombers, even when not inside the airspace border of our country."
The back and forth between Trump and the North Korean government this week continues a months-long war of words between the two countries that has seen North Korea threaten the U.S. territory of Guam and the nation's leader, Kim Jong Un, call Trump a "dotard" who exhibits "mentally deranged behavior."
"[Kim] is acting very badly," said Trump at the White House Tuesday.
"He is saying things that should never, ever be said, and we're replying to those things, but it's a reply.
It's not an original statement.
It's a reply."
Trump also criticized previous administrations, saying that the "situation" with North Korea "should have been handled 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago and five years ago."
"You had various administrations  which left me a mess," said the president.
"But I'll fix the mess."
President Donald Trump's longtime confidant Roger Stone denied allegations of collusion with Russia during the presidential campaign, following a closed-door interview with the House Intelligence Committee on Tuesday.
"I expressed my view that I am aware of no evidence whatsoever of collusion of the Russian state with anyone in the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with Donald Trump," Stone told reporters after the three-hour-plus interview.
Stone said he answered all the panel's questions, except for one: the name of the intermediary he used to communicate with WikiLeaks and Julian Assange.
Now, top members of the committee are discussing whether to subpoena Stone for that information, which they see as crucial to their investigation into Russia efforts to influence the presidential race.
"The intermediary is a journalist and the conversation was off the record.
I am not going to burn someone who I spoke to off the record," Stone said after the interview.
He added that he would ask permission to share his contact's identity with the committee.
Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the panel's top Democrat, told reporters the committee could subpoena Stone if he doesn't "cooperate in the future," but declined to say which questions Stone failed to answer.
Calling a subpoena "premature," Rep. Mike Conaway, R-Texas, the Republican leading the investigation, told ABC News he wants to give Stone a chance to cooperate.
"If he can get that done in a relatively quick time-frame, turnaround, then we wont need it," he said.
"But if he cant get that done Ill discuss with Mr. Schiff what our next steps will be."
Stone said he had no prior knowledge about the hacking of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's email or the release of those emails by WikiLeaks, despite tweeting about Podesta's "time in the barrel" before the messages appeared online.
In a more than 40-page statement released before the interview, he also criticized members of the committee  including Adam Schiff of California, the panel's top Democrat, and Jackie Speier, another California Democrat  for making "provably false statements" about him.
"I will not let myself be a punching bag for people with ill intentions or political motives," he said.
Stone briefly held a formal role on Trump's presidential campaign.
He has known Trump for 40 years and urged him to run for president for decades.
Arriving on Capitol Hill with his attorneys Tuesday morning, Stone told reporters he felt "excellent."
He said he planned to tell the committee "the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth."
Stone is among several former campaign operatives the House Intelligence Committee has sought to question.
The panel has met with Podesta and Michael Caputo, a Trump adviser close to Stone.
The panel will also interview Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump campaign adviser, on Thursday.
Shortly after announcing plans to visit the Puerto Rico this week, President Donald Trump said Tuesday he is "very proud" of the response to the devastation left by Hurricane Maria on the island, claiming that relief efforts have been described as "amazing."
At a joint White House press conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, Trump described the challenges faced by the U.S. territory in the aftermath of the storm but touted the work being done to bring "water, food and supplies" to the island.
"Everybody has said, it's amazing the job we have done in Puerto Rico," said Trump.
"We're very proud of it."
On Monday, Trump faced criticism for tweeting that Puerto Rico is in "deep trouble," highlighting the U.S. territory's financial woes and "broken infrastructure" instead of offering support or reassurance to the victims of Maria.
"Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with," Trump tweeted.
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble..  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities - and doing well.
#FEMA  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump also drew ire for focusing more on his feud with the NFL than the dire situation in Puerto Rico.
The president announced earlier in the day Tuesday his plans to visit the island next week.
He explained that next Tuesday is the earliest he can visit the island because he does not want to "disrupt the relief efforts."
"Puerto Rico is very important to me and Puerto Rico -- the people are fantastic people," Trump said from the Oval Office.
"I grew up in New York so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto Ricans.
These are good people and we have to help them.
The island is devastated."
Recovery has been slow to restore food, water and power to the island.
Trump argued that part of the difficulty in getting supplies to Puerto Rico is that it's "an island sitting in the middle of an ocean, and its a big ocean."
Trump also said that the U.S. is sending "a massive shipment of food and water and supplies to Puerto Rico" and will continue to do so on an "hourly basis."
Hurricane Maria is the third natural disaster Trump has had to respond to during his presidency.
After record flooding from Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of Texas and Louisiana, Trump made two visits, first to Corpus Christi and Austin on Aug. 29 and later to Houston and then Lake Charles, Louisiana, on Sept. 2.
Trump also traveled this month to Florida in the wake of Hurricane Irma.
'We've got A-pluses in Texas and Florida and we will also on Puerto Rico," Trump said.
Trump was criticized after his first trip to Texas for not meeting face-to-face with Harvey survivors, instead spending his time with government officials.
Ricardo Rossello, the governor of Puerto Rico, told ABC News that Hurricane Maria has caused the "biggest catastrophe in Puerto Rico's history."
So far, there have been 16 reported deaths on the island in the aftermath.
If we don't get unprecedented collaboration from the federal government here, this could collapse into a humanitarian crisis," Rossello told ABC News.
U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions today defended the presidents recent criticism of NFL protests, telling an audience at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., that the "president has free speech rights, too.
He called the protests by NFL team owners and players a big mistake, adding that it will weaken the commitment we have to this nation.
Sessions' speech, which focused on First Amendment rights, came amid President Donald Trump's rants against NFL players who take a knee during the national anthem, suggesting in a tweet this morning that the NFL should establish rules barring players from kneeling.
Several students, dressed in "Black Lives Matter" T-shirts, sat silently with tape over their mouths as Sessions addressed the audience.
The attorney general, who was hosted by the Georgetown Center for the Constitution at Georgetown University Law Center, faced backlash even before the event began.
Before Sessions took the stage, Georgetown Law faculty and others knelt outside in protest of his speech.
A group of more than 30 Georgetown Law Center faculty members also condemned the "hypocrisy" of his speech.
"We acknowledge our colleague's right to invite Attorney General Sessions to speak on campus.
However, we, the undersigned, condemn the hypocrisy, about Attorney General Jeff Sessions speaking about free speech," according to a statement from the group.
"Attorney General Sessions is a key cabinet member in an administration headed by a president who spent last weekend denouncing athletes engaged in free expression and calling for them to be fired.
President Trump calls African-American professional football players kneeling in quiet protest 'sons of bitches' and angry, armed white supremacists 'very fine people,'" the statement continued.
Jesus Rodriguez/The Hoya

During his remarks, he announced that the Department of Justice is filing a statement of interest in a campus free speech case this week and we will be filing more in the weeks and months to come.
"We will enforce federal law, defend free speech, and protect students free expression from whatever end of the political spectrum it may come," he said in prepared remarks.
Sessions spoke specifically about a public college in Battle Creek, Michigan, where he said a state official had students jailed for handing out copies of the United States Constitution last year.
"Freedom of thought and speech on the American campus are under attack.
The American university was once the center of academic freedom, a place of robust debate, a forum for the competition of ideas.
But it is transforming into an echo chamber of political correctness and homogeneous thought, a shelter for fragile egos," Sessions said.
He derided student codes of conduct related to speech that he said "substantially infringe on constitutionally protected speech."
Sessions gave examples of Boise State University in Idaho, where, he said, the Student Code of Conduct prohibits "[c]onduct that a reasonable person would find offensive."
At Clemson University in South Carolina, the Student Code of Conduct bans any verbal or physical act that creates an "offensive educational, work or living environment," said Sessions.
"Who decides what is offensive and what is acceptable?
The university is about the search for truth, not the imposition of truth by a government censor," he said.
Sessions also railed against "free-speech zones" on campus, saying that they are "eerily similar to what the Supreme Court warned against" in its 1969 Tinker v. Des Moines decision.
During his remarks, Sessions blamed school administrators for favoring "hecklers disruptive tactics" over a speakers First Amendment rights.
Sessions said the "university is "where the next generation of Americans are equipped to contribute to and live in a diverse and free society filled with many, often contrary, voices."
"And let me be clear that protecting free speech does not mean condoning violence like we saw recently in Charlottesville.
Indeed, I call upon universities to stand up against those who would silence free expression by violence or other means on their campuses," he said.
President Donald Trump continued his rant against NFL players who take a knee during the national anthem during his joint press conference with the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, calling it an "important situation."
"I wasnt preoccupied with the NFL.
I was ashamed of what was taking place," Trump said when asked if he shouldve been focused on offering assistance to Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
He added, "Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
To be honest with you, thats an important function of working.
Its called respect for our country."
Earlier today, he suggested in a tweet that the NFL should bar players from kneeling and slammed the NFL's ratings, saying they were "way down," except for when audiences tune in to see whether there are protests during the national anthem.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can't kneel during our National Anthem!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Today is the fourth consecutive day that he has openly criticized the league and its players.
Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

He also commented on Monday night's Dallas CowboysArizona Cardinals game.
During last night's game, Cowboys players and owner Jerry Jones linked arms and knelt before "The Star-Spangled Banner."
While it played, they stood but continued to link arms.
At first, Trump pointed out that there was booing and "great anger" when they knelt.
He wrote of the team's standing for the anthem, "Big progress being made."
The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard.
Great anger  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem.
Big progress being made-we all love our country!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump ignited a firestorm Friday evening when he criticized professional athletes who protest by kneeling during the national anthem.
"Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now'?"
he said at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Since then, Trump has doubled down on his stance in a series of tweets and comments to reporters.
Over the weekend, NFL teams, players and owners from across the league protested peacefully by kneeling, locking arms or skipping the national anthem in response to his criticism of players he says are disrespecting the U.S. with their protests.
Today, Alabama Republicans will vote in a primary runoff for the Senate seat previously occupied by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
A first round of voting failed to yield a majority for a single candidate.
Now, the top two candidates are competing for the GOP nomination in a race that has gained national prominence and become what some are calling a proxy war between the populist and establishment wings of the Republican Party.
Here's a look at what to know about the Alabama primary runoff:

Why the Senate seat is open

The seat was previously held by Alabama native Jeff Sessions, who served as senator for 20 years before his nomination by President Trump to serve as attorney general.
Following Sessions' confirmation in February, then-Alabama Gov.
Robert Bentley appointed the state's attorney general, Luther Strange, to temporarily fill Sessions Senate seat until the general election.
Bentley later resigned after allegations that he used state resources as governor to hide an affair with one of his top aides.
Lt. Gov.
Kay Ivey replaced Bentley as governor following the resignation, and called for a special election in April.
A history of support for Republicans

Sessions was first elected in 1997, and since then, the state has been represented by two Republican senators.
In his last election, in 2014, Sessions was unchallenged and won the general election with more than 97 percent of the vote.
The senior senator from Alabama, Richard Shelby, was elected for the first time in 1987 and is not up for reelection until 2022.
In the 2016 presidential election, Trump won Alabama with 62 percent of the vote.
Who is running

Among the nine Republicans who originally ran for the vacant seat, two emerged at front-runners and were sent to the runoff: now-incumbent Sen. Luther Strange and former judge Roy Moore.
Luther Strange

Al Drago/The New York Times via Redux

Strange officially stated his candidacy for Sessions seat on Dec. 6, just 18 days after Trump announced he would be picking Sessions for attorney general.
He was appointed in February to temporarily fill the seat left by Sessions.
Previously, Strange served as the attorney general for Alabama.
He ran for lieutenant governor in 2006 and won the Republican primary, but lost the general election.
In August, Strange was endorsed by Trump, who tweeted that Strange "has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama.
He has my complete and total endorsement!"
Senator Luther Strange has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama.
He has my complete and total endorsement!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2017

Since then, Trump has periodically tweeted his support and encouragement for Strange.
He appeared with him Friday at a campaign rally in Huntsville.
Strange has come under fire from his rival for the substantial advertising support he has received from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that has been known to support Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Politico reported that Steven Law, the PAC's president, said, While he doesn't direct what we do, McConnell has made it very clear that Luther's race is his number one political priority right now.
According to Politico, the fund had spent $3.5 million on the race as of late July, including an ad tying then-rival Rep. Mo Brooks to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

During the GOP debate, held last Thursday without a moderator, Strange was also attacked for how he became a United States senator.
When he was tapped by Bentley for the Senate seat, Strange was the very man leading the investigation into the Alabama governor's misconduct, which raised questions about the appropriateness of the appointment.
Roy Moore

Roy Moore previously served as the chief justice for the Alabama Supreme Court, but was suspended in November 2003 for refusing federal court orders to take down a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building.
Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Newscom

He was reelected to the position in 2013 but was again removed in May 2016 for ordering other judges not to issue same-sex marriage licenses, although the states ban on the matter had been overturned.
He announced his Senate bid in late April.
Moore was endorsed by actor Chuck Norris, who said, "Judge Roy Moore is the real deal.
The Washington establishment knows they wont be able to count on him, but Alabama voters can...Thats why the Washington establishment is spending millions trying to defeat Judge Moore."
Moore's other notable endorsements include several Trump supporters such as former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin, former White House strategist Steve Bannon and Duck Dynasty's Phil Robertson.
Moore has released advertisements highly critical of Republicans in Washington including McConnell, Sens.
Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, R-Wis.

"Send them all a message," one ad says, calling out the majority leader's "D.C. slime machine."
Recently, Moore has come under fire for appearing to refer to Native Americans and Asians as "reds" and "yellows" in a campaign speech.
Last night at a campaign rally, Moore pulled a gun out of his pocket as he said that, counter to his competitors' claims, he is a supporter of the Second Amendment.
Why this race matters

At a time when the presidents support within his own party wavers, the Alabama special election could reflect how much influence Trump has had in the first year of his presidency.
Political science experts say the outcome could be symbolic of voters' current view on Trump.
Cynthia Bowling, chair of the political science department at Auburn University, told ABC News this summer that "if there is ever going to be an election that would signify a movement away from Trump, it would be an election where Trump's ratings are really low," and in a solid Republican state, like Alabama.
According to Richard Fording, a professor of political science at the University of Alabama, this election "will continue to be influenced by Trump" and that "it will flat out be a referendum on his performance as president."
The race has further significance for Republicans; a loss could potentially shift Republicans' tenuous authority in the Senate.
The GOP currently holds 52 seats in the Senate, while Democrats hold 48 and two independents caucus with the Democrats.
An upset win in the December 12 general election for Democrat and former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones, who won his party's primary in August, would be a significant gain for Democrats and make it even more difficult for Republicans to pass tightly contested legislation, such as on health care reform.
ABC News' John Verhovek contributed to this report.
Cutting corporate taxes looks like a hard sell for Donald Trump and Republican Party leaders -- a new ABC News/Washington Post poll shows that 65 percent of Americans feel large corporations pay too little in taxes.
Given what the public knows about it, they opposes Trumps tax plan by 44-28 percent, with a substantial 28 percent undecided.
Half of those polled expect the administrations plan to reduce taxes on the wealthy, while just 10 percent think itll reduce taxes on the middle class.
A quarter expect equal treatment.
See PDF with full results here.
A tax break for the wealthy would be out of step with public opinion.
Overall, a broad 78 percent favor trimming income taxes on middle-and lower-income Americans, while just 33 percent support reducing taxes on higher-income individuals.
The public splits when it comes to cutting taxes paid by businesses in general -- 45-48 percent, support-oppose.
Seventy-three percent in this poll, produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates, also say the current tax system favors the wealthy, up 5 points since 2012; 55 percent feel that way strongly.
Just 5 percent say the tax system favors the middle class, down 4 points.
Seventeen percent say it treats both groups about equally.
Trump is expected to make an opening pitch for his tax plan in a speech Wednesday.
Groups

Views on Trumps plan divide along party lines.
Just 7 percent of Democrats and 5 percent of liberals support the plan, versus 60 percent of Republicans and 52 percent of conservatives.
Independents and moderates come in between the two parties and ideologies, with 29 and 25 percent support, respectively.
Household income also factors into support.
A mere one in five of those with household incomes less than $50,000 support the plan, vs. 36 percent of those with incomes of $50,000 or more.
In addition to Democrats and liberals, opposition peaks among blacks (70 percent), Hispanics (55 percent), urbanites (51 percent) and adults age 39 and younger (50 percent).
Most of these groups are also more likely than their counterparts to think Trumps plan will mainly reduce taxes for the wealthy.
The exceptions are Hispanics, who are about as likely as whites to say so, and urbanites, who differ from rural residents, but not suburbanites.
Theres a similar gender gap.
Men are 13 points more likely than women to support Trumps plan, and 12 points more likely to think it will treat both the wealthy and the middle class about equally.
Women are 12 points more likely to think the plan will help the wealthy.
Trump has expressed support for a 15 percent corporate tax rate; its currently 35 percent, and Republican congressional proposals so far suggest a rate of 20 percent.
As noted, though, two-thirds of those polled think corporations pay too little in taxes.
Among those, half oppose Trumps plan (including 39 percent strongly opposed) while just 21 percent support it.
Even half of conservatives and almost half (47 percent) of Republicans say corporations pay too little.
Theyre also the most likely to say corporations pay too much, but only 17 percent in both groups hold this view, as do 15 percent of those with $100,000-plus incomes.
Similarly, Republicans and conservatives are more likely to support tax reductions for businesses than from other parties and ideological groups.
There is, however, bipartisan support for reducing taxes on middle- and lower-income individuals.
Current system

When it comes to perceptions of the current U.S. tax system, views are steady across income groups.
Between 68 to 78 percent express this opinion across other groups as well (gender, race, region, age, education and urban status).
The biggest gap is between men and women -- with women 10 points more likely to say the system favors the wealthy.
Democrats and liberals also are more likely to say the tax system favors the wealthy than their Republican and conservative counterparts -- theres a 34-point gap between partisan groups (89 vs. 55 percent) and a 29-point gap between ideological groups (88 vs. 59 percent) in this view.
This is strongly related to perceptions on corporate tax rates.
Those who say corporations pay too little are twice as apt as others to feel strongly that the tax system favors the wealthy.
Methodology

This ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cellular telephone Sept. 18-21, 2017, in English and Spanish, among a random national sample of 1,002 adults.
Results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points, including the design effect.
Partisan divisions are 31-23-36 percent, Democrats-Republicans-independents.
The survey was produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates of New York, N.Y., with sampling, data collection and tabulation by Abt Associates of Cambridge, Massachusetts.
See details on the surveys methodology here.
Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, announced this evening that she will vote "no" on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill, becoming the third Republican to do so and likely dooming the GOP's latest effort to repeal and replace Obamacare.
"Today, we find out that there is now a fourth version of the Graham-Cassidy proposal, which is as deeply flawed as the previous iterations," Collins said in a statement.
"The fact that a new version of this bill was released the very week we are supposed to vote compounds the problem."
Collins joined Sens.
John McCain, R-Ariz., and Rand Paul, R-Ky.

"Obviously this was an issue to which I've given a great deal of thought because there are many problems in the Affordable Care Act that do need to be fixed.
However it was clear to me that the Graham-Cassidy bill was not the answer," Collins told ABC News.
Collins said she had three major concerns with the proposed legislation from Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., Bill Cassidy, R-La., Dean Heller, R-Nev., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis.
Among them were what she called the "sweeping changes and cuts" in the Medicaid program.
The CBOs analysis on the earlier version of the bill, incomplete though it is due to time constraints, confirms that this bill will have a substantially negative impact on the number of people covered by insurance, Collins quipped.
Off the floor, Collins told reporters President Donald Trump called her in an attempt to sway her vote.
She said she told him she's a likely "no" but would take another look at the revised bill.
Vice President Mike Pence also called the senator at her home in Maine over the weekend, she said.
"I had a very cordial discussion with the president today.
I'm not going to go into the details of the conversation but it was completely cordial, as was my conversation with Vice President Pence and with [Health and Human Services] Secretary [Tom] Price and with many other members of the administration.
I appreciated their input, it's just at the end, I can't support this bill," she told ABC News.
Just minutes before Collins announced her vote, the Congressional Budget Office released a preliminary analysis of the latest version of the Graham-Cassidy estimating that millions would lose health care.
The number of people with comprehensive health insurance that covers high-cost medical events would be reduced by millions compared with the baseline projections for each year during the decade, CBO and JCT estimate, the analysis released Monday states.
That number could vary widely depending on how states implemented the legislation, although the direction of the effect is clear.
Collins "no" vote may well be the final nail in the coffin for the Graham-Cassidy bill.
The bill needs 52 votes to pass before the Sept. 30 deadline, and with three Republican senators standing in opposition, the bill is essentially dead on arrival.
ABC News' Trish Turner contributed to this report.
Protesters in wheelchairs were removed from a hearing on the Republican health care bill Monday afternoon after disrupting the session with chants of "No cuts to Medicaid!
Save our liberty!"
The disruption prompted Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, to adjourn the session until the protesters could be cleared out.
"If you want a hearing -- if you want a hearing, you better shut up," Hatch said.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

Capitol Police officers struggled to remove people, with some sliding out of their wheelchairs and onto the floor.
Eva Malecki, a spokesperson for Capitol Police, said in a statement 181 protesters were arrested Monday afternoon.
"Fifteen demonstrators were arrested and charged with disruption of Congress," Malecki said, adding, "143 individuals were arrested after refusing to cease and desist with their unlawful demonstration activities in the hallway.
Twenty-three individuals were charged with crowding, obstructing, or incommoding and resisting arrest."
People from all over the country and all of walks of life lined up as early as 5 a.m.
ET, to urge lawmakers to oppose the latest Republican health care bill, known as the Graham-Cassidy bill.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images

The chambers of Finance Committee is set to consider health care legislation proposed by Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., Bill Cassidy, R-La., Dean Heller, R-Nev., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis.
This is the one and only open hearing scheduled on the Graham-Cassidy bill, an unusual process that opponents of the bill, like Sen. John McCain, have objected to.
Susan Walsh/AP

An army veteran who came all the way from Atlanta called the hearing a fake" and a "facade," accusing lawmakers of not listening to real Americans.
Through tears, Pam Willis of Wyoming told ABC News Mary Bruce that this is a matter of life and death.
J. Scott Applewhite/AP

My daughters coming in a wheelchair and it means her life, the insurance.
And my daughter in law has cancer, her fourth cancer and it means her life too, Willis said.
It means a lot.
Graham and Cassidy will speak in favor of their bill and are expected to discuss the latest revised version of their health care legislation.
The newest draft rearranges how changes in federal funding provided to the states for health care would be phased in over time.
Republicans are hoping to push the Graham-Cassidy bill quickly through the Senate as the Sept. 30 deadline that allows them pass health care on a party-line simple majority vote is rapidly nearing.
Susan Walsh/AP Photo

ABC NEWS' Mariam Khan contributed to this report.
Transcript for Senate special election GOP primary runoff in Alabama

We turn next to a political battle playing out right now in Alabama tonight.
Two larger than life characters competing to be the Republican candidate for senate.
Judge Roy Moore, picking out a gun at last night's rally.
He's been endorsed by Steve Bannon, but not the president.
The other candidate, 6'9" senator Luther strange, is the president's pick.
But did the president signal he is now having second thoughts about his choice?
ABC's chief national correspondent Tom llamas is there for us.
I believe in the second amendment.
Reporter: Flashing his gun on stage, and riding his horse to the polls, former Alabama chief justice Roy Moore is also a hero to the religious right.
Crime, corruption, immorality, abortion, sodomy, sexual perversion, sweep our land.
Reporter: Moore's top supporter in this senate primary, president trump's former chief strategist, Steve Bannon.
He's a courageous man, and most importantly, he's a righteous man.
Reporter: But the president is supporting Moore's opponent, senator Luther strange.
What would you tell trump supporters who are confused?
Who should they vote for?
I'm just an individual.
I would highly recommend that the folks support judge Moore.
Reporter: But the president says he's loyal to strange for helping him on health care, even calling him big Luther.
Met him once, I said, that is the tallest human being I've ever seen.
I'm tall.
Should be on the New York Knicks.
They could use him.
So, Luther, that's what I call him, big Luther.
Reporter: Strange making it clear he will be in lock step with the president.
He knows I've got his back.
Reporter: But the president acknowledges he may be backing the loser.
And I might have made a mistake.
And I'll be honest, I might have made a mistake.
So, Tom llamas with us from Alabama tonight.
President trump saying he might have made a mistake.
And he's made it clear that he'll campaign for whoever wins tonight?
Reporter: He has, David.
Many are predicting this is going to be a very tight race and the president knows that.
And he said if judge Moore does win, he will be back down here, quote, campaigning like hell for him.
David?
Tom llamas with us tonight.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate Republicans admit defeat on new health care bill

We turn next here to the newest effort to kill Obamacare.
It is dead on arrival.
There will be no vote.
Tonight, two rrm senators, Susan Collins and Lisa murkowski, on why they were not convinced.
And even after John McCain said he would vote no, support for him from the senator who helped write the bill.
Mare rip Bruce, back on the hill tonight.
Reporter: Tonight, Republicans are conceding defeat.
We've made the decision since we do.
't have the votes, we will postpone that vote.
Am I disappointed?
Absolutely.
Reporter: But for mom Samantha Mcgovern, who worried what this bill would mean for her daughter, Josephine, relief.
I'm much happier today than I was the last time I saw you.
Reporter: The fatal blow dealt by senator Susan Collins of Maine.
It was clear to me that the graham/cassidy bill was not the answer.
Reporter: Her objections to the bill?
The deep cuts to medicaid, and the concern millions would lose coverage.
Lisa more cow ski of Alaska who opposed the last attempt -- I said in January, we should not repeal without a replacement.
Reporter: Didn't like the process this go-round, saying the U.S. Senate cannot get the text of a bill on a Sunday night, then proceed to a vote just days later, with only one hearing.
John McCain, who took down the last GOP attempt with this defiant thumb's down, agreed, he wants a bipartisan process.
His best friend in the senate, Lindsey graham, who drafted the bill, had this to say.
John McCain can do whatever damn well he wants to.
He has that right.
Reporter: But tonight, he says they have to keep up the fight.
We'll get killed if we don't.
Reporter: You'll get killed if you don't?
We'll get killed.
Can you imagine, if we just don't fulfill this promise?
Mary Bruce with us live tonight from the capitol.
And now that this newest Republican bill is dead for now, Mary, Republicans will now need 60 votes instead of a simple majority.
That would mean both sides would have to come together on this.
Reporter: Exactly, David.
And word tonight, bipartisan ship is back.
Senators from both sides of the aisle are headed back to the negotiating table to trying to hammer out immediate steps to stabilize the markets and give Americans facing high premiums some relief.
David?
Bay partisan ship is back.
We heart you said it, Mary.
We'll keep tracking that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump defends his response to humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico

And we begin with what authorities are calling a humanitarian disaster in Puerto Rico.
More than 3 million American citizens live there.
And tonight, the president is asked, was he preoccupied with the NFL and his tweets?
The president tweeting 24 times about the NFL, but he did not tweet about Puerto Rico over the weekend.
Tonight, he's defending himself, and the white house releasing this photo of a meeting in the situation room, to signal they are doing all they can.
Tonight, the president plans to now visit Puerto Rico.
And ABC's senior white house correspondent Cecilia Vega leading us off.
Reporter: President trump in the rose garden today with a message for Puerto Rico.
We will get through this and we will get through it together.
Reporter: And the ground, total devastation.
Nearly the entire island still without power.
More than half of it without water.
But many say, until now, his the president's public response has been subdued.
Overnight, in a series of tweets, president trump emphasized Puerto Rico's massive debt, saying it ols "Billions of dollars to Wall Street and the banks, which sadly, must be dealt with."
Among those who called him out, the mayor of San Juan, who said, "You don't put debt above people, you put people above debt."
New York congresswoman Nydia Velazquez going even further.
This is going to turn to be Mr. Trump's Katrina.
Reporter: And today, we put the question to the president.
Is Puerto Rico getting all the help it needs from you, Mr. President?
Puerto Rico is very important to me, and Puerto Rico, the people are fantastic people.
I grew up in New York, so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto ricans.
Reporter: The president highlighting the praise he's received.
It's the most difficult job, because it's on an island in the middle of the ocean.
It's out in the ocean.
You can't just drive your trucks there from other states.
And the governor said, we are doing a great job.
Reporter: While brushing off questions about whether he's been preoccupied by his battle with the NFL.
Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
Reporter: And today, the white house released these photos to show it.
The president in the situation room, being briefed on Puerto Rico.
So, let's get to Cecilia Vega, live at the white house tonight.
And Cecilia, the president announcing he will now travel to Puerto Rico?
Reporter: He says had will go there on Tuesday, but also headed to Puerto Rico, the U.S. Navy ship comfort.
It's a medical ship with as many as 1,200 active duty and reeveryone is on it.
It will take about a week before it arrives.
A week.
Cecilia Vega, thank you.
Our correspondent in Puerto Rico tonight, asking the mayor

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Can politics and sports be separated?
Hi everyone I'm on the host uncomfortable this is a very.
Special at the sound of uncomfortable it's been really outside of our regular programming schedule.
Because of the big conversation we're having as a country right now about politics and sports about race.
And free speech and we needed to address that break here which is why we're having this conversation today.
And I'm really pleased to say that joining us from Los Angeles for this conversation.
Is my friend and colleague LT grander than healthy thanks so much for being here.
Of course bucolic from running well content stating that I'm playing it back to you next time I leave you a message echoed retired.
And the and you are inherently.
Eagle.
Uniquely qualified to talk about a lot of this stuff because these are thinking that reported on for a very long time and an inner section that not a lot of journalists have.
And let's just started off by setting the scene right.
The president whenever he speaks or tweets can fat off.
And national debate and on Friday night in Alabama he weighed in on the tour to be occasional protests that have been going on on the sidelines of an account names.
Sparked of course by calling cabernet can meals during pregame the national an them.
And president trump says wouldn't you love to see one of those and FL players when somebody gets respects our flag.
To say get that SOB off the field right.
At the when you heard that when you learned about those statements.
What did you think did you think that it would spark a reaction.
I did.
Because child has proven to be quite the lightning rod particularly when you look at the timing of when he has he's sort of moments right.
Like Thursday night.
We're talking about whether or not to repeal pretty affordable care corrective action ports are our.
Friday alters rally in Alabama says these inflammatory remarks and now we're not part of our health care anymore.
Or at least not nearly the same sort of be replaced that we were part of comments.
He's done this time and time of day and broke his campaign and as well as president so I wasn't surprised necessary to see these are war.
I was a little bit surprised to see owners respond as quickly.
As they did to it but I guess when the president United States suggest you start watching and a spell that hurts the pocketbook and that's what businessman.
Billionaires get involved and in fact the states are being reduced the president's remarks but in general works in our what's next privacy to public it.
Up in arms about woody sweeter when he says because of good par for the course particularly when we're close to a really big important policy scars.
She think just to be do you think this of the distraction.
To get away from some of the policy discussion keeping that's why he started talking about it.
You know it's hard to determine never interviewed.
Trump corporate or anything like that but from Arafat would keep in and have talked to people.
Who have been quotes the president.
It's scenes is when Everett there is real tents are controversial policies being discussed.
He does does he does one of these tweets that throws it hard national conversation.
Off that particular topic.
And I don't know if he's doing his current dispute not I just know the byproduct of these tweets and to be the discussion moved away from policy that you were superficial things.
I will say you know regardless of the intention behind it the conversation that has followed in the dates and had been among the people kind of been having in private circles and behind closed doors are here in there eyes and social media.
But not at its level not on the national stage this way.
And you mentioned the president following up their remarks with some tweets one of the things.
He tweed Ed got to the heart of the matter and I think put into very explicit terms what a lot of people think which is that the issue of kneeling.
Has nothing to do with the race this is what president trump treated its about respect for our country flag and national in them.
And the NFL.
Must respect that and healthy this to something that's a fundamental disconnect.
About the origin of the protests.
Which is to say that you know people think that sometimes whatever your feelings about.
Injustice in this country inequality in this country.
That sports is not the place for it like you should respect the flag and respect the aunt them regardless what do you make up.
You know first and foremost a constant currencies as we always have to look at the source and the source of this conservationists want.
This is someone.
Who took out full page ad in various newspapers in New York back in the 80s about Central Park bars.
Suggested it they'd be killed basically be harmed be put to doubt.
We're supposedly raped and some warrant we find out through DNA.
Evidence.
That they were not involved.
Not by you know a technicality not by some rent compression DNA evidence right that's science.
Says that not involved.
And he refuses to acknowledge.
The reality.
Because he wants to it was there are hybrid that approved for example well because as you were saying.
There is his narrative ended and there is reality.
And the reality is that this protest started with players wanting to bring attention to racial inequality.
Police brutality.
A criminal justice reform.
Now in his world.
Their protests in the National Anthem in the flag in for a lot of people they do feel that way but that's because I believe the media has done it port jobs.
Of making sure there will be told this story we didn't characterize it that way but we've gotten a bit lax we've gotten lazy.
We don't short hair dark basements they have to protest what we're not protesters beat amp.
In many protests during the anthem we're actually a protestor are these large divide issues that are partners nation for centuries.
You could talk to the president and come explicitly with the protests about.
Go to the administration try to find solutions to these issues.
But that doesn't Britain took an heir to pretty warrants.
He wants to near Tibet these orders are protectant anthem because it helped beats its base it gives them more fuel in allows them through with that he's got some sort of level of approval.
Are people aboard the government's office.
Althea Hayes Meredith and it's also the narrative of a lot of people are they wanted to be the narrative.
That you know when you show up to play professional sports.
That's your job and you you do your job there's no place for politics there right secretary ammunition even said something similar to the U you can pro Catherine that they you have the right to free speech.
But you should do it on your own time.
In fact this separation.
Of politics since sport especially need days is that even possible.
In it's a really curious as to what example of protests.
That happened during a convenient car.
If if you give me five with convenient time which is to protest.
Are we're really love to know exactly what that pride.
It is at noon or by day's only you know.
Did they don't want you protests on the streets gonna what you protest on the sidelines of what partnered.
They don't want you to talk about certain issues when you're dealing with their weapons hurricanes that summer climate change now was not the time.
It worked hard gun controls are surely up the mass shooting now is not the time.
There's always does not it's not the time it's not appropriate you know why is because of inconvenient.
It's as an inconvenience and guess what that is part of the purpose of it protests is to shake things up as a convenience you because you're in.
Your and sort of like auto pilot boat comes amid redeem right you needed something to stop you can make you think about some.
So I'm sorry if you're building that somebody nearly these sideline if he convenience that you somehow but.
A protest in and of itself is not supposed to make you feel good it's supposed to be culpable.
It's supposed to make you give particle what are you doing and I hope he spoke reconnaissance and Mike that.
Let's not be inflicted if artists or lazy and look at a perfect time to protest because it doesn't exist.
Now the it strikes me that before the president weighed in on it.
There were still occasional protests going on obviously Colin happening with diligently sticking buy.
His stance on this occasionally other players would join him here and there.
But we we're not talking about it on nearly the level that we are now it kind of forced.
Every one to reckon with this conversation it sparked more protests in reaction to those protests are hash tag with taking me.
An office park if you mentioned earlier.
The owner's involvement.
And on Monday night game Allen and asking about that the Arizona Cardinals and the Dallas Cowboys to the cowboys all kicking me together right wind.
The owner Jerry Jones and and they all stood in linked arms during the national and then the cardinal I think it stood arm in arm.
Altogether.
And it strafing out there were in this kind of weird space where the conversations going on before they decide to come out if you keep blight is an acceptable form.
Protest slash sign of solidarity.
How did we not alienate people but still send a message to some degree what do you make about that in some of those conversations people are clearly having.
That's things Kate was relieved trustees for a couple of reasons you know first and foremost the demonstration that the cowboys had.
With prior to the flag be right.
Yet the fans and Arizona chose to boot the Dallas Cowboys in their demonstrates.
What exactly were they going.
Because if you are upset that people are being respectful to implement want to flag.
Well they're demonstration happened before they have with beings on report of rivals presents a what were you Bo.
The question only those people who were born can answer I have my theories.
But I don't want to speak for those people they need to process that themselves.
Number two what exactly worked out of cowboys demonstrating or protests in the dance.
When all protests against Richmond equality.
From a justice reform please brutality where the protests remarks the president trial.
Because one.
Has to do with what color cap and it started and other have to do with your pocketbook.
And I want I want really hope.
That the Dallas Cowboys in the man who decided to take in these are right.
Were protests he.
Racial inequality there were protests are pleased brutality and not protests in the remarks which president trop.
Because they were fearful that it may impact their bottom line because of our with the motivation.
Vintage or Spielberg was disingenuous to opportunistic bourse opened a complete show of unity solidarity.
You know the unit yet when you look at the B and found just as a league to this is the other thing that struck me as we're seeing this planet and we did see in other places to an end NBA players and and others as well not even athletes and other people just taking a stand in and sending a message on social media with their own taking me.
Photos and videos but acted to specifically with the NFL when it's highlighted means that the conversation is taking place.
On top of turning inherent imbalance already talked about the owners having to get involved in the player if you talk about league in which the vast majority of the players are black.
And which the owners are heavily majority are white I'm watcher all our.
So and N many of them donated millions of dollars to trop.
And his campaign in twenty sixteenths other this kind of imbalance that's at underpinning of this entire conversation hat.
What is the reason why I'm very curious that's what was the voter bases.
Hi Jerry Jones wanted to participated demonstration as well as the statements of the individual franchises in the league as a whole because as you mentioned.
Many of these owners many of these men contributed and wanted to see Donald Trump and office it is not exhibited no exact what they were voting for he was very very clear.
In his entire life in from the camera.
What kind of person he was and what his thoughts were.
I don't beginning with blind sided sororities.
After so we're confident and escalated start calling rapists and Colin Baxter rate recipients at that you shouldn't blind sided we have further comments that he it would be NFL players.
Armed.
I'm really curious did as to what's gonna happen.
Once arch rock terms of attention to some other conversations.
And debates read about the younger wrestlers and house an awful show assortment I don't know.
And auto service up Warner's social you know and a soap opera community about what he's there was offensive and people were taken at tears but it would be or wherever it is for soap operas.
Why aren't in opponents going to do when the spotlight is not one bill.
Is this protest RD demonstrates are all these statements about unity about the real issue at hand.
What specifically about the president turn his attention towards this man from Kosovo we'd be to rebuke this because we don't want to hurt our pocketbooks.
Here's the honest wouldn't.
That remains yhency.
And now complaining because there's there's some nuances here to read it's not all black or why aid or 01 side person the other here there are players obviously this is not a unanimous stand.
Among the entire league owners or the players there players who have spoken out about their own dissidents on about their own confusion.
Ben Roethlisberger whose team remained I think mostly in the locker room.
Carrying the national an them later came out to issue a statement saying you regret at that that he.
He didn't want to send the wrong message I think he later said that I wish we had approached this differently.
We didn't want to appear divided on the sideline with some standing and some kneeling or sitting.
And it strikes me that what the conversation happened the conversation now with that.
Expect she on the sidelines for courtside or wherever.
You're forced to make a decision you're forced to take a stand either you're going to me ill or sick to board.
Have you or form of protest that you feel is appropriate.
Or you're going to stand and remain with the status quell an it's.
I can hiker caught them.
Of that competition we're adding everything the country what are you on the front lines of fighting something or are you remaining with the status quo.
You know was pleased about what Ben Roethlisberger.
And the conference other athletes have sort of expressed in the cars so there's.
This protest.
Is that they don't want to visit to disrespect.
And it it is curious because the protest.
Started because there was a disrespect the large.
And a black lives matter movement didn't start.
Because there was a quality equipment justices and started because of equality.
And equipment.
Started because there were people who were losing their lives innocent people were people who should have been killed.
A by officers and it believes if there was no justice but for the family and friends afterwards because it civilized it matter if they're produced respect for their lives.
And so this notion that the right it's been just respected.
I could certainly have a conversation.
By conversation mark question to Ben Roethlisberger and other happens.
What it is what about the disrespect for human life because if you really going to be conflict were upset about something I would think scenic innocent man.
Be gunned down in heavy evidence planted on you know.
By officers would you'll highly disrespectful to what this country's stance for.
Are what do about it you're so conflicted about this that you with Steve something like that you begin to use her own has tegra you speak out against that.
Or your own.
And if you didn't why do you do it.
Are you upset because of two hours after being caught out for which he didn't do in the past as much of which are doing in the present.
Are you putting uncomfortable because you're beginning to realize that all that inequalities happen that you didn't care.
Because it affected directly and argue Buena Park directly by decision that you really don't want to make.
These are brooding deep conversations and it's probably the marked people's youth aspects to the sports because they don't want to have these currencies.
But this is the flip side to that I'll be right which is that those seeing people who say stick to sports.
People like Ben Roethlisberger may be I don't speak for and the people who.
Feel as if this was imposed on me I don't this is not the place for me to take that standard and make my mind.
Position known because.
I am here to perform professional duty and this is what I signed up to do I want to stay in my lane.
It is that there is it fair to have that decision imposed on them in this way.
As his parents and arises.
Is it fair to require Madonna was gunned down in the end our prisons lightest and try to attack on the BBC video of just the opposite.
Is it fair that tape around our neighbor Martin's mother still walks from the pain of her son not being there.
I mean we can go on and on about what's fair not fair and I told again being put on a spark.
You know it's someone who.
As a member of LG BT community I know there's nothing more fearful for many men and women in my community Debian has street on argue gay straight or trash standards.
It's unfair it's uncalled for no one wants to be forced to say something like that about themselves.
But in the end immersed in the pains of being beer.
Is it fair but he African American community.
For centuries now.
Have been talking about police brutality and criminal justice and billions of there is racial in equality.
And having time and time again a lot of lip service but not all models.
Real metrics are so there's been a significant change if you look at the 1960s social economic metrics you look at the matches are today.
Not a great deal was changed is that fear.
So this brings us back to with a man that really first sparked this conversation.
Calling Cafferty right in August when he sixteen during the PCs and he first fat during the nationally and emulator started to cake and me.
During the national and found his hope as he expressed it briefly back then must shine a light.
On racial injustice racial inequality that so pervasive in our country today.
And to this day.
He remains unsigned.
And there have been a lot speculation about why that is I think John Maher has come out and basically said.
He's divisive since besides the fact that he's may be more qualified and all the metrics the quarterbacks are they are hard judge Don east actually sells merchant the popular player.
So this is the question moving fourth hour if the players won't remove politics.
From the game well the people who control the game.
Just keep them out it.
You know comic characters unique situation because he had a contract he opted out of it became a free eight.
If he was on contract and he got cut.
That's a different conversation that will be happy right but essentially he opted to become unemployed assuming it's fuels that would have made him higher.
And we've discovered that owners are big powers and summons and be right article critical.
You mentioned Ben Roethlisberger.
Interesting division to Baltimore Ravens.
Talked about bringing him there.
And they claim that you know we had his conversation.
And we think he may be a good fit when national record about forest.
Have been eventually win they sign a guy who had never thrown in a bill passed before.
What sense does that make cut a cabinet with the starting quarterback and Super Bowl less than five years ago.
And you needed backup quarterback he's sign someone who never played in the NFL.
Don't tell me this before policies.
This decision about PR and what you perceive to be back ours.
Baltimore is unique situation because certain points a multitude of players through.
We're into their boat you know Ray Lewis being one who was under investigation for possibly involved the murder.
Which are welcome him back.
Com so so you so you you know you you had Ray Rice goes on to roster.
Who was accused of domestic violence and eventually you've used it to do the right thing in terms of punishing him but of first you have to you own his side.
There's someone who parts has been yachts in knocked around the elevator.
He will win it's welcome him back.
So here you have calling cabinet someone whom didn't committee.
Bach Klein wasn't pleased that are accused of committing any crime.
With actually peacefully protest and to himself for a couple of weeks before reporter asked a question.
Develops and now he's someone that you quote unquote need prayer for and it's when a group of fans talk about whether he went welcome back to vote.
It's so hypocritical in it's so ridiculous it is so nonsensical.
The reality is that you don't really right it's a card receipts and he's trying to hat is not the protest.
It's the conversation.
You don't want to have a conversation barbarous and quality because that takes a lot of work.
You don't really want to be in custody and I did that but left before write about it start Palestinians college heparin is an NFL pro football reasons.
So Al Zain next weekend.
Are now we still talking about that says it's still a thing about how players come out whether they stand whether they stand for that they link arms.
It is the conversation that actually keeps up moving forward.
Well one.
If we're still talking about whose protests missiles not then we're not doing our jobs because the dead.
We're supposed to talk about what their protest.
Not give you never with the visual of the protests.
And in two.
It depends on what.
Happens here you know one day you know mr. trump may decide it's read something that's offensive in the casino resort or something totally different.
And that's reality of it is that.
We had to gratitude towards new sparkly shiny object and that's where it hurts and our focus and what we were discussing prior since upon the background.
Remember what we're all angry about transgender is being banned from the military.
Little tart but that at all anymore right.
Why because he tweeted something else.
And so to answer your question I don't know regrets about this next weekend because I don't know what's going to be tweeted.
What I do know is that if we are talking about NFL players in protest than what we're not doing this and respect to what started as a protest against racial inequality because that's what is all about.
It's about making service of peer environment for every one.
That if you answered the criminal justice system but should be treated equally regardless of your race that's what is currencies is supposed to be.
While the I hope you and I can talk about this again and I think you for making the time today it's always good to talk to you my friend.
Absolutely as always.
Thanks to all of you for listening as well and I'm on in about.
Thank you for listening to uncomfortable.
If you like what we're doing take a minute believe that the rating and a quick review it helps others define these conversations.
And we really just wanna hear a traffic.
Plus we've made it easy just click on the link in the description of this app says.
If you have an idea for a show topic glory yet pleaded in the reviews or tweet apple apple about to stop and that's.
And aid WA.
DI FDA and quarry used to hash tag uncomfortable talk.
Uncomfortable with the production of ABC news new episode vote every 2 weeks on Tuesday morning.
I'm on in the pot thanks for listening.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate cancels vote on GOP health care bill

Hi everyone on the bots here with continuing coverage of president trumps.
Press conference there in the Rose Garden with the prime minister of Spain when a jump right in with some breaking news headlines we can bring you now.
Let's go live now to Washington DC my colleague reclining ABC's political director and Michael of being at joining us from there and over activists and it.
We've got Serena Marshall with us as well at Rick a let me go to you first on something we've just learned now we know the Republicans multi year effort.
To repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act Elson and is Obama care is over.
For now so what's next.
Well that the bill is dead but this army will not die and it will be new attempts to resuscitate this is part of the the next budget resolution could push forward the deadline but this was inevitable given where the votes were we saw secession of Republican senators come out say they oppose it.
This is strike three but it's not baseball they could get worse trying to get themselves another rat bat.
And I think we we haven't seen the end of it yet but for now for the foreseeable future yup this is going to be tax reform.
Republicans now hold that will be there being legislative victory maybe the only legislative victory for the year now that health care decided yet once again.
Serena give me your take on this now what exactly happened here in these last few days we knew they had three senators.
The voting no we thought they might bring it to a vote anyway just to get on the record with at it and some way.
If there actually a path forward that what happened behind the scenes.
They don't want to bring it to a vote if that Bo is going to be another resounding no and yesterday they were dealt their final blows senators Susan Collins.
Coming out against the bill again paint he couldn't get behind it because it is being cut to Medicaid.
And with those three senators.
Firm knows they just didn't have the votes and it would just be another embarrassment for the Republican Party to take up a repeal and replace office.
You have repeal and replace bill doable on the senate floor and to see that no once again and now they're saying they're gonna come back to it Lindsey Graham just moments ago saint.
We'll come back like Rick that after taxes.
But whether or not that'll actually happen is the question what we can't expect the likely in the short term.
Is that bipartisan effort to be revived.
That could come back here in the senate they needed something to get.
Exchanges under control to get the premiums down in the meantime tomorrow is the deadline for the health care companies the insurance companies.
To come now and decide.
It they're going to be part of the exchanges.
For the next year knowing that this latest circular plate effort is dead could convince some of those insurance companies come back to the table when it comes in the Affordable Care Act and is public exchanges.
House Republicans and Democrats.
Worked together moving forward could be a big difference in whether or not actually be revived again in the coming weeks will Republicans.
He this thick of the Obama care of the affordable.
Affordable Care Act exchanges.
Worked out.
Sure those up.
Been able they want to take that sign and possibly in another run and failure and stay on top hat in the months ahead in the meantime I want it back to another set of questions the president.
Based there in the Rose Garden play a little bit of sound for you in case you missed it the president was asked.
About some criticism he thinks about his late response.
Two people in Puerto Rico now a humanitarian disaster by many accounts after they've been ravaged by a few hurricanes there and expanding its time tweeting.
About the and it balance through protests on the sidelines there take a listen to what the president had to say just moments ago.
Well I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL I was a shame Devoe was taking place because.
To me that was a very important moment I don't think you can disrespect our country our flag our National Anthem.
And to me the NFL situations are very important situation I've heard that before.
About was I preoccupied not at all not at all have plenty of time in my Angela do is work.
And to be honest with you that's an important function of work and it's called respect for our country.
Many people have died.
Many many people many people are so horribly injured.
I was at Walter Reed hospital.
Recently and I saw so many great young people's.
And then missing legs in the missing arms and they've been so badly injured.
And there were fighting for a country they were fighting for a flag they were fighting for our National Anthem.
And for people to disrespect that.
Body kneeling during the playing of our National Anthem I think is disgraceful.
Rick Klein a pretty you on this first now there's a fundamental disconnect here in the way the president seems to be talking about this.
About those rights of those military veterans he's talking about are fighting to protect which should include right.
The crate our players and free speech to be able to protest where they see fed.
A couple of disconnect here on I think that's a big one.
I think he would the other one is in him saying this isn't about race when we know.
I just based on the statements from the players who have engaged in these protests than it's explicitly about racial injustices.
Balances in policing.
I criminal justice so I feel like the president it's right on this issue I think that was a telling comment there talking about how he's got funniest.
That he's always working.
He thought this out.
This did not seek him out president a lot of issues on his that this money he try to find and try to exploit its continued.
To try to hit as hard as he put it plays well to work to his political base I think the way he's appropriated this as an issue for himself.
It puts anyone who's potentially in any players on the other side of the American flag which is now the protesters intended.
And as an uncomfortable position for lots of people I think you've got a part of one of the disconnect here what the president is saying what art.
I'm Mike Levine you know you can weigh in on this too there's president was the only one.
Weighing in on free speech today you cover of court the Department of Justice for as attorney general Jack fashions.
Had he previously scheduled speech today at Georgetown on free speech how to back out.
Yet just two hours before the president's event the C is that this afternoon.
The attorney general as.
The sort short distance away at Georgetown law school which he said that free speech is under attack.
And he said that colleges and universities across the country were created to be a sort of.
A conversation of different ideas in and where opposing views are shared but that they've become an echo chamber that was his phrase.
An echo chamber of political correctness.
And that they're being filled wit.
Which.
With fragile egos he said.
Of course just his remarks come an interest in time because in the middle of the senate fell debate his basic message was.
That opposing views need to be heard and they should be relegated to certain areas.
But of course again and that's the NFL.
They break I feel like there's an Alanis Morissette theme song here that about.
Rain on your wedding day or not for your acting you've already pay.
I mean look at these are two members of the state administration had at the government and his handpicked attorney general who seem to be delivering very different messages here.
Yeah I I think that's exactly.
That's exactly right it's important time for our generals that you at this war.
But I think it's telling you saw without irony in this case it's right wing voices mark he's the press.
Is calling essentially for less re.
Expression he's talking about conservatives might be offended but at the lack of respect for the flag so.
Where you stand in his what you say it once again with this administration I think the White House in identifying this is a priority I think its rate a lot of concerns about what the role of government is.
And the attorney general asked about this is as might as Mike knows and I tried to square or circle that's not quite there Rite Aid if your if your general sessions in your being asked about this.
Free speech works forever water works for not one.
Well yeah he said the attorney general sensitivity actually condemn us with NFL players he said that they should have done it he noted that they have lots of assets and that.
They should find other ways of expressing themselves in some of taking in the UV and.
And he any made a point of saying the person and it applies to the president as well so he's allowed to say what he what he wants to say even though now the administration is saying what there should be a limit the free expression.
Of the players and.
Feel a thing I proposing to meet again if have a rule where players aren't allowed to nail that three and actually get your take on this that a heart all of that.
The reason the question with asked in the first place was because.
Of the president's response to folks in Puerto Rico millions of whom are now without power facing increasingly scarce supplies of drinking water.
And food what did you make of the president's response there.
All we actually heard from the president for the first time real remarks on Puerto Rico all of this that was being going on over the weekend all of the NFL taught in.
Health care talked Puerto Rico wasn't at the top of that lists in fact over the weekend.
He didn't tweet about Porter redo it took him until Monday to actually even comment on Twitter about what was happening.
And that comes had been governor of Puerto Rico is Boehner the humanitarian crisis here isn't going to be catastrophic.
Unseen mass exodus to the mainly in.
It the government doesn't step up.
And do more to help the people of Puerto Rico and the Franken that these are American citizens so hearing from the president today commenting about the administration's response.
The big deal we also learned today that the president needs to go there but he's not gonna go there for two weeks after from when the hurricane first hit and that's different and we've seen from this administration when it comes to responding to hurricanes on the we signed goats to Harvey and Texas twice.
The first time within two to three days the storm was still hitting parts of taxes at the time.
Florida he went there within.
Four days after the hurricane hey.
The the worst part of it hitting the keys and it taking in two weeks to go to Puerto Rico's you can see why these people are questioning whether the administration is really coming.
To the defense of those American citizens and joining us live now on the phone from the Rose Garden is ABC's John Karl who is there.
With president trunk of the prime minister of Spain and John Allen asking about the other big story that came out of that the president.
Really doubling down on the military threat against North Korea saying that he is totally prepared.
To do what is whatever is necessary when it comes to addressing those threats.
Yet this came in response to a question about the words of deep prime the foreign minister.
North Koreans who sedated.
Trump's words amount to a declaration of war against his can't country.
And made that threat to that North Korea's now with its rights to start shooting down US military planes even international airspace.
Seoul.
The president was asked about that and Ben and absolutely no toning down all of the rhetoric of the hard liners he's taken.
Against North Korea he called you it and he'd refer to the military.
Option implying there's also a diplomatic.
Option.
But pledged that he is fully prepared to take that military option if he is forced to.
John let me ask you another question about something else he was asked about there are keeping get a finer point on this two bit.
There's a sort of disconnect here from the white house on the one hand you have attorney general Jeff Sessions saying that free speech.
Is under attack in America on the other hand it the president saying that NFL players should not be allowed to protest.
In the way that they see fit.
Are we think any kind of clarification from the white house on.
The first walking you mash and Jeff Sessions here Jeff Sessions news.
Then the odd man out in the president's cabinet ever since he recused himself from the Russia.
You know investigation somebody you the president we know had asked for a letter of resignation.
And then chose not to excepted.
But who's somebody who is made clear that he is furious with the and this does this attorney general on a previously scheduled speech Krista go out and speak.
On free speech just as the president has launched this attack on NFL players.
Exercising what many see as their fundamental get a first amendment rights.
During the during these pre games.
The National Anthem immediately it's really an extraordinary position for the attorneys general to be and the one thing I can tell you.
Is that the attorney general.
Did that this speech was scheduled before the president decided decided to go into this attack on the on the NFL players that what he called you know SOB is.
Who who protest during the National Anthem.
You know but very you have quite a bit of unfortunate timing from the attorney general the attorney general speech of course was supposed to highlight.
The issue which is a legitimate issue to annihilate of a free speech on on college campuses and you know speakers that has spanned have been silenced have been hounded out.
Because of their of their views.
But you know I mean what what an uncomfortable position from the hit Turkey general Libyan and of course.
He didn't get around to mentioning the NFL controversy in his remarks of course them.
Don't cry you can mark the day that you got to use SNB and I live stream Murray here think I politely apparently Obama's.
Headed out I mean to the president to be clear did not use the you know did the deed the the that the board didn't say as a B actually said the actual work but I I don't know we have a family flood stricken.
You know it's going to be trying to be tested.
Keep it PG thank you John are.
Karl on that from the white out that Rick Klein and I ask you about something out then something we talked about a little earlier this habit of a proxy war going on in Alabama this is something the president has weighed in on.
A Republican primary run off.
Between the man who assumes the seat left behind by attorney general.
Jeff section is all these circles are coming together now what can you tell me about the stated that special election and what that's about president trump.
If his candidate has it.
Pull fruit.
This is trump vs trumpets and the president himself may not be able to tame the forces that brought into office that would be the lesson if judge Roy Moore.
One of the most colorful and controversial figures to ever come close to the sanity.
Were to win the Republican primary a run off tonight against his preferred candidate president's preferred candidate.
Senator Luther strange he was appointed to fill B Jeff Sessions he's actually under somewhat controversial circumstances and Alabama and he's become associated with the establishment.
You know he's only been in office for about six months now.
It would be a stunning setback for president that's very popular places like Alabama.
And the twist on this one is that Steve Bannon was in the state last night campaigning against president fox even a vice president pence the other side estate.
In any for that person so you're seeing.
The entire base of president puppet war with itself over this senate seat is an extraordinary set of circumstances.
I don't is likely to be replicated anytime soon but I do think it.
It has big implications for governing this year because Roy Moore is not someone's now goal long to get along with Mitch McConnell and Republican agenda.
And big implications for the primary season next year because it's going to embolden a whole raft of of would be trump supporters to run for office that they feel like making it happens that grassroots energy.
Even without getting the endorsement of the president's out.
According to paying special attention to some of the special elections this year we'll have continuing coverage here.
Thanks to all of you Rick Klein Mike Levine and Serena Marshall for joining us now.
And thanks to you for watching as well if you wanna keep up with the latest sign Alabama special election had hampered abcnews.com.
Anytime that story.
And any others or download ABC news that get all the breaking news updates right here found for now I'm on the spot and feedback Houston.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman: Transgender troops should continue to serve

Do you agree.
That are thousands of openly serving transgender men and women have served their country with honor and valor.
Addition RS which is probably saying that I believe any individual who mes to physical and mental standards.
And as were what deplorable.
In his currently serving should be afforded the opportunity continue to serve.
Thank you if reappoint it can you promise currently serving transgender individuals who have followed department policy and meet ever apartment as you just.
Asked of them that they will not be separated from arm Serbs is based solely on their gender identity.
Sir I can promise that that will be my advice what I would've just articulated as divisive provided in private and then just provided in public thank you.
And have you had the opportunity to meet with any of the thousands of transgender individuals currently serving in uniform on active duty.
To hear how the recent developments that impact of their lives and if not you commit doing so.
I have not since the since additional August when he announced it was made but but I would certainly Buena center.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump to visit hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, says he is 'very proud' of response

I'd like to take a moment to send America's hearts and prayers.
To the people of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
Both have been devastated.
And I mean absolutely devastated.
By hurricane Maria and we're doing everything in our power to help the hard hit people.
Both places Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and massive effort is underway.
And we have been really treated very very nicely by.
The governor and by everybody else they know how hardware work in and what a good job we're doing as we speak.
FEMA are a great first responders.
And all available federal resources including the military.
Are being marshaled to save lives.
Protect families and begin name long.
And very very difficult restoration.
Process I have directed all relevant departments and agencies.
To assist in the response and recovery.
Effort.
Governor Cella.
Just tell me this morning.
The entire federal.
Workforce is doing great work in Puerto Rico and I appreciated is saying it and saying it to anybody.
Well listen our team has been incredible after having gone through Texas.
And then Florida.
With other stops along the way.
And he further went on he said and through the top administration's leadership the relationship between FEMA and my team is very very strong.
I will be going to Puerto Rico on Tuesday.
I'll also be going to the US Virgin Islands.
Over the last several weeks our nation has been tested by the destructive force of mother nature.
But we were respond to it with and even mightier force.
The resolve of the American spirit Texas Louisiana and Florida.
Are in really good shape and moving along well.
We thank all of the first responders and volunteers who have risked their lives and that's what they did they risked their lives.
All of those impacted by the travel.
And these horrible hurricanes in his arms.
That have affected.
And impacted.
Our country I thank you.
The recovery process will be a very very difficult one.
We will get through this at we will get through it together.
We will be stronger.
We will be bigger we will be better.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for SPECIAL REPORT: Trump comments on NFL, Puerto Rico, North Korea during Spanish PM news conference

Ladies and gentlemen.
Though president of the United States and the president of the government of Spain.
Thank you very much everybody please PC.
Good afternoon I'm greatly honored to welcome president Mariano Rajoy.
Of Spain.
And it's a great honor to have you at the White House thank you very much.
We've just concluded a very productive conversation on a crucial range.
Of economic and security issues before we begin.
I'd like to take a moment to send America's hearts and prayers.
To the people of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
Both have been devastated.
And I mean absolutely devastated.
By hurricane Maria and we're doing everything in our power to help the hard hit people.
Both places Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands and massive effort is underway.
And we have been really treated very very nicely by.
The governor and by everybody else they know how hardware work in and what a good job we're doing as we speak.
FEMA are great first responders.
And all available federal resources including the military.
Are being marshaled to save lives.
Protect families and begin a long.
And very very difficult restoration.
Process I have directed all relevant departments and agencies.
To assist in the response and recovery.
After.
Governor Acela.
Just tell me this morning.
The entire federal.
Workforce is doing great work in Puerto Rico appreciated is saying it and he's saying it to anybody.
Listen our team has been incredible after having gone through Texas.
And then Florida.
With the other stops along the way.
And he further went on he said and through the top administration's leadership the relationship between FEMA and my team is very very strong.
I will be going to Puerto Rico on Tuesday.
I'll also be going to the US Virgin Islands.
Over the last several weeks our nation has been tested by the destructive force of mother nature.
But we were respond to it with an even mighty air force.
The resolve of the American spirit Texas Louisiana and Florida.
Are in really good shape and moving along well.
We thank all of the first responders and volunteers who have risked their lives and that's what they did they risked their lives.
To all of those impacted by the travel.
And these horrible hurricanes in his arms.
That have affected.
And impacted.
Our country I thank you.
The recovery process will be a very very difficult one.
We will get through this at we will get through it together.
We will be stronger.
We will be bigger we will be better.
Thank you very much.
The United States and Spain are great friends and close allies.
Are bonds culture and commerce go back.
Many sensors.
Our schools teach American children about Spain's history of exploration.
Army is seems treasure beautiful Spanish works of art.
And your country's contributions to architecture music and don't.
Are admired all over the world.
Say greatly.
Admired country.
The deep relationship between our two people.
Is a strong foundation for lasting.
Cooperation.
On behalf of the American people I want to express our support.
And extend our prayers to all of those affected by the vial terror attack.
In Spain last month.
I want to assure the people of Spain.
That America stands with you in confronting this evil that threatens all of humanity.
We will continue to deny the terrorists their funding.
Their territory.
And any form of support for their wicked ideology.
In this common fight America great.
We appreciate Spain's contributions.
To the coalition to defeat ices.
Spanish troops and police have trained more than 30000 members of the Iraqi Security Forces.
We also thank the Spanish people.
For being such gracious hosts of the American service members stationed at Spanish.
Basis.
The United States and Spain together face many critical dangers and challenges.
From north period to Iran to Venezuela.
We thank Spain for its recent decision to expel.
It's North Korean ambassador and for standing with us in our efforts to isolate the brutal North Korean regime.
It is time for all responsible nations to join forces.
To isolate the North Korean menace.
North Korean nuclear weapons and missile development threaten the entire world.
With unthinkable.
Loss of life.
All nations must act now to ensure the regime's complete.
Denuclearization.
I appreciate the united nations Security Council voting twice unanimously.
Fifteenth and I think twice.
To adopt hardening resolutions against North Korea.
I have recently issue tough new sanctions against those.
Who do business with this outlaw regime.
And I applaud China's latest action.
To restrict its tray.
With North Korea.
And a particular I applaud China.
For breaking off all banking.
Relationships.
With North Korea something that people would have thought unthinkable even two months ago.
I want to thank president Chea.
Here in the Western Hemisphere.
We have seen a heartbreaking tragedy of Madeira socialist ruined Venezuela.
Spain has been especially helpful in promoting the interests and well being of the Venezuelan people.
And we thank you for your efforts.
We hope.
Our friends.
In the EU.
Will soon follow the United States Canada and many Latin American nations.
In sanctioning the in the giro.
Regime we need everybody in bounds.
The citizens of Venezuela have endured a man suffering poverty starvation in dangers.
Political unrest.
And a Madeira is oppressive socialist regime.
Together Spain and the United States hope for peace.
For the restoration of democracy.
And for the release of all political prisoners.
Wherever socialism spreads misery follows the people of Venezuela deserve a future.
Of freedom he's a great people.
In the economic arena we support trade that benefits both Spain and the United States which means it must be fair.
And it must be reciprocal such an important work.
Hasn't been used very much in the United States reciprocal.
Spain is the tenth largest investor in the United States and I commend Spanish business leaders.
For their confidence in America and the American worker and considering the fact.
That our stock market has suggested all time highs I think they probably like the United States very much.
Is it time for both tremendous opportunity to for our world but also.
Serious dangers.
As I said at the United Nations.
Which future.
Really is up to us if we empower our citizens serve their needs and appeal to all that is best.
In the human spirit.
Then I have no doubt we will succeed.
Like never ever before.
Mr. President I'll let foe to work in review.
To build this future prosperity and peace for both Spain.
And for the United States of America thank you very much thank you.
This is an ABC news special report.
George Stephanopoulos.
Good afternoon we're coming on the air right now because president troubles in the Rose Garden where the prime minister of Spain Marianna road oils the president of their government.
About to take questions from the press in his opening statement just moments ago the president.
Emphasize the disaster response in Puerto Rican here in which is now being described.
As a humanitarian disaster also discussed North Korea the tough sanctions the United Nations he says past.
Last week also the tightening.
Banking relations teen China.
And North Korea the president praised the Chinese president for that of course.
The presence been so winnable war of words.
When the North Korean dictator Kim Jong-Il in calling him rocket man threatening.
To destroy their country will go quickly to Martha Raddatz we keep an eye on this right now I'm Martha is the president's been speaking.
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff up on Capitol Hill today reminding all of us how serious the threat from North Korea is he certain.
In West Virginia was specifically asked general Joseph de inferred.
If North Korea possessed are reliable.
Accurate and nuclear capable ICBM system.
And this is what he said I think for all planning purposes capability development we should assume now.
That North Korea has the capability.
And has the wheel to use that capability that's how urgent this problem is and it is a problem that Donald Trump.
We'll have to deal with no president before him has had this problem it has basically been punted down the road.
To Donald her.
We've seen an escalation B one bomber flights around North Korea so far Martha Raddatz and north cure responding to the president's words by taking them.
As a declaration of war.
Yes the North Korean leader says it is a declaration of war by having those bombers.
Go north of the DMZ they were off the coast of North Korea about 200 miles away from North Korea.
But well beyond the border where they usually fly he said he will shoot them down even if they are as they were in international airspace.
Experts do not believe he has that capability right now.
Not right now Ballou president of course has also been something of a war of words was illicit with the NFL.
Taking on those players who decided taken me in protest of his comments on Friday the president could get asked about that the press conference.
As well and as we speak up on Capitol Hill today.
It appears at the Senate's effort dinner last ditch effort to repeal and replace.
Oh my obamacare is finally on its last legs three Republican senators have now come out and say they are against it senator Rand Paul senator John.
McCain senator Susan Collins.
Of Maine senate Republicans are meeting right now decide.
Whether or not they're actually going to push ahead for a vote on this all this coming.
As a predator the president also laying the ground work for his major tax reform package that he also wants.
To be passed this year the president met with a bipartisan.
A group of members of the house from Democrat and Republican side today talking about.
That tax form so full plate.
For the president right now let's go to the Rose Garden.
And so we've gone.
Political and economic situation of both our countries Spain and the United States are two democracies friends and allies.
Which many common values and interests and we agreed to work together in the area of to.
Defense of those values with a comprehensive and cooperative vision.
I would like to thank.
The warm welcome that was extended to us by president trump and his team at the White House prime ministers and rattling have to finish answering no more vulnerable friendship.
That exist between the United States that's been thank you.
Thank you.
Steen Harland.
Please Reuters.
Don't get nervous to.
Then in that.
There is.
Well I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL I was a shame Devoe was taking place because.
To me that was a very important moment I don't think you can disrespect our country our flag our National Anthem.
And to me the NFL situations are very important situation I've heard that before.
About was I preoccupied not at all not at all have plenty of time in my Angela do is work.
And to be honest with you that's an important function of work and it's called respect for our country.
Many people have died.
Many many people many people are so horribly injured.
I was at Walter Reed hospital.
Recently and I saw so many great young people's.
And the missing legs in the missing arms and they've been so badly injured.
And there were fighting for a country they were fighting for a flag they were fighting for our National Anthem.
And for people to disrespect that.
Body kneeling during the playing of our National Anthem I think is disgraceful.
So I will also say that again I read you part of his quote but.
The governor of Puerto Rico is so thankful for the great job that we're doing we did a great job in Texas a great job in Florida a great job in Louisiana.
We hit little pieces of Georgia.
An Alabama.
And frankly we're doing and it's the most typical job because it's on the island it's on an island in the middle of the ocean.
Tell in the ocean you can't just drive you trucks they're from other states.
And the governor said we are doing a great job in fact he thanked me specifically for FEMA and all of the first responders and Puerto Rico and were also.
Mentioning with that the US Virgin Islands it was devastated.
So we are totally focused on that but at the same time it doesn't take me long to put out a wrong.
And may do well get it right I think it's a very important thing for the NFL to not allow people to Neil.
During the playing of our National Anthem to respect our country and to respect our flag.
And thank you.
But that's the U. I can ask you prime and should question it's going to take a war to rein in North Korea and what is your advice.
To the present on dealing with us.
Didn't.
He looked at almost.
No one wishes for there to be a war anywhere in the world it's true.
The recent key events and North Korea.
With implications in the neighboring countries very important countries in.
Means does.
We all have to be forceful than those of us who defend the values of democracy freedom and human rights.
Have to let North Korea know that it isn't going anywhere in that direction for the time being sections have been adopted Spain will support.
Political decision which will.
Contribute to putting an end to.
It's a situation which has nothing to do with the principles and values.
Most of western and global democracies defend.
That when a status as a thank you was immune Blanco from I think.
We don't know whether during your conversation.
Be viewed discussed but Catalan situation and this is a question for president crossed.
Do you support what the Spanish government is doing regarding Catalonia and I like to ask.
The president the Spanish government whether he fears they might be a unilateral.
Declaration of independence and cattle and in what was the government do them.
Well I think that Spain is a great country and it should remain united.
We're dealing with a great great country and it should remain united I've been watching that unfold.
But it's actually been unfolding for centuries and I think that.
Nobody knows if they can have a vote I think the president would say they're not going to have a vote.
But I think that the people would be very much opposed to that I can say only speaking for myself.
I would like to see Spain continued to be united.
Me and gave.
The decision to unilaterally declare independence is not something.
I have put it's not a decision I would make it's a decision.
Which will have to be made or not by the Catalan government I think it would be.
Very wrong and I think that right now when everyone knows that the referendum can take place.
Because there isn't an electoral committee there isn't a team of the Catalan government organizing the referendum.
They're on ballots there aren't people at the voting station so.
It's just crazy all this will lead to is employees but certainly there can't be a valid democratic.
Referendum with.
Guarantees with minimum guarantees I think.
What would make sense in the situations such as this is too.
Go back to common sense and put an end.
To this whole story the only thing it's doing is generating deficient tensions and it's not contributing in any way to.
The citizens situation so I want this to be resolved as soon as possible.
And I want us to go into a new stage where the rule of flawed dialogue and common sense will prevail and.
I think you.
Major Garrett yes CBS.
Yes hi.
Hours away.
And you have a special meeting and are you contemplating the deployment.
Of special naval assets or air assets.
To Puerto Rico to Rick drug problems there.
And an order North Korea very quickly the foreign ministers that you declared effectively war on North Korea and the North Korean government is threatened to shoot down or a Matt.
American planes flying in international airspace like your reaction talking to all levels.
The second when first we are totally prepared for the second option not a preferred option but if we take that option it will be devastating I can tell you that devastating.
For North Korea that's called the military option if we have to take it we will.
He's acting very badly.
He's saying things that should never ever be said.
And we're replying to those things but it's a reply.
It's not an original set and it's a reply but the things that he said over the last year and if you look back to things that he said to past administrations.
North Korea is a situation that should have been handled 25 years ago twenty years ago fifteen years ago or ten years ago on five years ago and it could have been handled.
Much more easily.
He had various administrations many administrations.
Which left me a mess.
But I'll fix the mess.
So we'll see what happens with North Korea as far as Puerto Rico is concerned I think just the opposite we have had tremendous reviews.
From government officials as we have in Texas and Louisiana and as we have in Florida as you know from governor scattered.
Greg Abbott great governors and that this morning the governor made incredible statements about how well we're doing.
We understand it's a disaster and it's a disaster that just happened.
The grid was in bad shape before the storm.
And Puerto Rico didn't get hit by what Americans got hit by two hurricanes.
And you are among the biggest we've ever seen with the second one being even wears me.
The second one hit Puerto Rico as a category five I don't believe anybody's ever seen that happen before.
Put gland with that kind of velocity.
And the governor has been extremely generous and I appreciated it we right now have our top people from FEMA and they have been there.
We are unloading on an hourly basis massive loads of water and food and supplies for Puerto Rico.
And this is it like Florida roving go right up the spine or like Texas where we go right down the middle and we distribute this is.
You know thing called the Atlantic Ocean.
This is stuff stuff.
The governor.
Has been so incredible and his it is statements about the job we don't we're doing a great job don't forget that police force.
Has been decimated because many of the police in Puerto Rico who lost their homes.
Sure they wanna be police but they also want to be able to watch their families and find their families and they have to live so we're also very much involved in security in Puerto Ricans so.
Everybody has said it's amazing the job that we've done in Puerto Rico we're very proud of it and I'm going there.
On Tuesday no regard that being said wreck could.
Record if you look at the the amount of water dropped and then island between the two hurricanes.
And the first thing just barely got by with but they were devastated.
And the second was a complete wipe I mean this was a place that was destroyed.
So I think we've done a really good job we're continuing to we are literally unloading on an hourly basis Warner food supplies.
We have our top people from FEMA and our first responders and everybody else we're going to be deploying navy ships they've already been deployed.
And we are going to do.
Far more than anybody else would never be able to do and what it's doing recognized as such but it is it is a tough situation would you have a question for the president.
Prime minister premise or do you sure president trumps hostility toward the Venezuelan regime.
And what is your opinion generally of his that is to say president comes suggestion.
But US military intervention might be required if the Venezuelan government doesn't change course do you support that.
And which you be an advocate within the EU for tougher sanctions against the Venezuelan government.
In an assault but a system or.
What are spearheading in the European Union.
A proposal.
To impose sanctions on an as well what is happening in Venezuela.
Is unacceptable Venezuelan.
Traditionally was a democratic country.
And at this time it's no longer democratic countries their political prisoners of and his and other people who are in jail.
Only because they think differently than mr. in my guru and was the first.
Prime minister to receive median eighteen to forty whose of the life of the poor little bit who was killed because mr. my guru didn't like him.
But there were many others who were sent to jail.
In Venezuela there was a parliament.
And the government has made up this other parliament.
Which is it has its meeting next to the other parliament and it and that enacts legislation.
They've created a commission for the truth which is an anti democratic school which only serves to judge people without respecting.
Minimum human rights standards.
Venezuela is on the road.
To dictatorship.
Unless that can be stopped so all of us who shared values such as democracy freedom and human rights have to do something.
At this time sanctions are important it's important that there be.
The international coalition putting pressure.
On mature rose so that political prisoners are freed and democracy is restored because this lack of democracy and the attack against human rights and freedoms.
Come in conjunction with the economic.
Well that's a terrible economic situation with a 300%.
Inflation rate with problems supplying foods and medicines to people so it's a really tragic situation.
And I think.
We have we United States and Spain have.
A responsibility.
Towards and is another lot of spent years living in Venezuela and I'm worried about them about them and the rest.
But they certainly were in me so I think that the international community.
Should be forceful with requests to that is when I.
Yes when asked that they thank you that's those from and that is equally tough of the union.
I have a question for each of you for president trump.
With the serious political crisis in Spain because of a referendum on Sunday what solution do you think there is.
Have you given advice to president rajoy on this matter do you think there should be.
A dialogue between the food generally touch and the government to find a solution and no question for from mr. rajoy it seems.
What you're doing in Catalonia that we are managing.
Things in Catalonia.
Is having an impact.
On the budget and I'd also like to know whether he thinks that the situation with the can be resolved or do you think that there will you'll have to call early elections thank you very much.
Well I think the people of Catalonia.
Have been talking about this for a long time but I bet you if you had.
Accurate numbers and accurate polling you'd find that they love their country they live Spain.
And they wouldn't leave so I'm just for united Spain I speak as the president of the United States.
As somebody that has great.
Respect for you president and also has great really great respect for your country I really think the people.
Catalonia would.
Stay with Spain I think it would be foolish not to you're talking about staying where they truly great.
Beautiful and very historic country.
Turkish.
Thank you.
We will be delaying.
Movies.
Budgets.
And part of it because we think.
It went we submit the blitzes we would need the needed support to approve them we're talking with different political parties.
As you know and I don't think we'll have any problems.
If we continue to work on this line.
We will I don't think we'll we'll we'll have any problems in approving them within a reasonable time frame but we are looking for a maturity just like we did.
Last time around when we voted for budget at any rate.
I'm not thinking at all about calling early elections.
As a result of what we were so.
I'm Mr. President thank you very much thank you.
President trump wrapping up a press conference there would the president of Spain Mariano Rajoy.
Fox News from the present in those questions he started out talking about the NFL again sees his change what he was seeing in the NFL also calling.
I'm the NFL not a pass a rule that would prohibit players from nearly.
During the National Anthem president also saying.
It is totally prepared to take the military option.
In response to North Korean nuclear threat if indeed.
That is necessary and we should say that while the president was speaking final word from the senate from senate Republicans who now say there will not be a vote.
On this latest effort to repeal and replace obamacare they ended September 30 deadline to meet they will not meet if they do not have enough support.
To pass that bill a lot of news there from the president for the president Jon Karl in the Rose Garden.
George I thought first detected too big topics there North Korea.
And the NFL are on North Korea again for.
Words harsh words from the president not backing down from.
The type of rhetoric that we heard from him at the United Nations.
Making it clear that he is more than prepare to responsibility to respond militarily if necessary to anything that the north Koreans may do and as it was noted in the question.
The North Korean foreign minister has already said.
Did the United States has declared war on his country we at the president's words.
On the NFL actually don't backing down there once whatsoever.
He was asked if he had been.
Too preoccupied with the NFL to deal with the crisis following hurricane Marie in Puerto Rico when he said.
He wasn't preoccupied he was ashamed by the actions.
Of those NFL players that were protesting during a National Anthem.
So apps Leno backing down get the sense that as an issue that the president wants to keep talking about over and over again.
I'll over all of this overwhelming failure of that effort to repeal and replace obamacare the president said he would work on that from his first day.
In office we're gonna go off the air right now much more tonight on world news tonight were David Muir and get the latest breaking news alerts anytime I downloaded the ABC news that.
I'm George Stephanopoulos in New York have a good day a C a moron Jim.
This has been a special.
For me he's.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump: 'We are totally prepared' for military option against North Korea

We are totally prepared for the second option not a preferred option but if we take that option it will be devastating I can tell you that devastating.
For North Korea that's called the military option if we have to take it we will.
He's acting very badly.
He's saying things that should never ever be said.
And we're replying to those things but it's a reply.
It's not an original set and it's a reply but the things that he said over the last year and if you look back to things that he said to past administrations.
North Korea as a situation that should have been handled 25 years ago twenty years ago fifteen years ago ten years ago and five years ago and it could have been handled.
Much more easily.
He had various administrations many administrations.
Which left me a mess.
But I'll fix the mess.
So we'll see what happens with North Korea.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump 'ashamed' of NFL players kneeling during national anthem

Well I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL I was ashamed of what was taking place because.
To me that was a very important moment I don't think you can disrespect our country our flag our National Anthem.
And to me the NFL situations are very important situation I've heard that before.
About was I preoccupied not at all not at all have plenty of time in my Angela do is work.
And to be honest with you that's an important function of work and it's called respect for our country.
Many people have died.
Many many people many people are so horribly injured.
I was at Walter Reed hospital.
Recently and I saw so many great young people's.
And the missing legs in the missing arms and they've been so badly injured.
And there were fighting for a country they were fighting for a flag they were fighting for our National Anthem.
And for people to disrespect that.
NFL to not allow people to Neil.
During the playing of our National Anthem to respect our country and to respect our flag.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Former Trump adviser Roger Stone says he had 'frank exchange' with House panel

We had a very frank exchange.
I answered all questions.
I've made the case that the accusation that I knew about John Podesta his email hack in advance was falls.
That new.
About the content and source of the WikiLeaks disclosures.
Regarding Hillary Clinton was false.
And that my exchange with someone claiming to be loose for 2.0.
When viewed as through the context.
Content and timing was benign.
And did not keep us.
Had an opportunity to correct a number of the things that members of the committee.
Had said about me which they seem to take him.
And I think this was productive I expressed my view.
That I am aware no evidence whatsoever.
Of collusion by the Russian state or anyone in the trump campaign.
Or anyone associated down from.
And I reiterated my view that in my opinion.
Down from has the potential to be evil they truly great entries formative.
President now I think they were trying to do their job and write a fair report there were some clashes between the Republicans and the Democrats about the appropriateness of some questions.
But giant overall it was pretty collegial was.
Mr. Goudie asked me directly if I had any knowledge.
Of Russian collusion collusion with any member of the trump campaign that trump family.
Donald from trump associates from friends and supporters.
And I said no.
Mr. Schiff said well we could asks him question of Vladimir Putin.
And mr. Goudie took exception to that.
And I believe those fairly treated at that your question I'd obviously reserve judgment until I see the final report but.
The entire chain was completely professional.
Everybody was courteous.
No complaints about anyone's conduct.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Alabama Senate primary runoff a proxy war for Trump and Bannon

Hi everyone I'm on an Abbas lie in New York will now down Alabama where at special election has national attention.
Ever since president trump and his former senior advisor Steve Bannon had both weighed it.
Just on opposite side school I think hacked my colleague Alley Rogen who joins us from Mobile, Alabama.
Also with us our two colonists from a Al dot com joining us from their Birmingham offices.
Kyle with Meyer and John Archibald guy thanks so much for being with us and and a check in week he would just a moment let's go to Alley first.
Just to set the scene here Alley for folks who haven't been keeping up we're talking about a seat that was vacated.
By Jeff session she went on to become president Trump's attorney general.
For the candidates and who is supporting who.
And it sends rain on.
Vacated by taking better Jeff Sessions in February.
And now is that major proxy war going on.
Company was acquitted in February and here extremes.
Previously in the states attorney general and his talent.
Word because it here.
Reject and not clock follows.
Supreme court's decisions including.
Following need to create a say in favor of same sex marriage more rosy notoriety.
In the nineties when he first began putting and memorial.
Commandments outside the courtroom that's what ultimately led to his dismissal from the bench the first time in 2000 when he heading giant.
Marble monument to the ten commandments outside the courthouse.
On the let me set the scene a little bit bring you in here at a polling location in Mobile, Alabama is that James.
The James sealed recreation center and what it's about.
Immune here in Mobile, Alabama and.
It's a run off elections so turnout is typically a little.
More depressed than it is even in in general or in.
Race waiters.
More things to vote on so check out this is it this the parking lot Durban a couple of cars coming in and out but I'm not sure if that's eager to vote.
Or into Rex Anderson maybe they're coming to play sports or check on a book or something.
So it's really not clear how many exhibiting so far but this is the red hot races you mentioned on the huge implications here in terms of the senate and also it's a huge test of the power of trump vs Steve and it.
We'll huge implications there and this when I want to bring in Kyl and John Kyl over to you first hear we saw the empty parking lot their brawl on national attention.
This rate has been getting how folks down in Alabama you.
I mean we're hearing already that there might be around well percent turnout this election as what secretary of State's office is predicting.
As early this morning.
And you know.
But she said I mean this is not a you regular election it's special elections are very our poll Lugar.
And it is it's harder to get.
People excited about these.
Plus it's a primaries so you don't White House Republicans.
Shortened to vote Democrats already voted for their candidate last month.
And does every hour we're looking at low turnout.
Sid Jon and a human palate both been covering this for quite some time now you have a line here want to read back the navy.
Encapsulates what this race all the bout to folks there you wrote picking between growing more and Luther strange.
Is a choice between hell and high water what do you mean by that.
You it's very.
The state it's kind of credit.
Him mores.
Yeah has been twice kicked off the bench he has abused at a lot of people here is somewhat extremists.
It's a strange is seen is an incredible opportunist to his attorney general asked.
The governor.
Or an appointment that should it.
He was supposed to be investigating the gap shirt.
It resigned under charges so it's not really a simplest thing.
You know this referendum trawl.
Or not really that's that was saying it more as the guy people to change I.
The question is both of these candidates.
Are really sort out.
Tainted in the eyes lot of Republican voters and think they're also.
You know helps lower that that voter turn out.
So Kyle and we now back in the when he sixteen election president trump one Alabama with 62%.
Of the vote there does that mean that his.
Candidate the guy he's backing Luther strange that he have any kind of advantage moving forward.
So far polling showed that.
His endorsement of weird or strange person I mean you know.
Much if that ball in this race.
Frankly I think a lot voters decided.
You know two months ago who they were going to vote board.
And law.
You know our reporters when news.
Tuesday truck struck and rally on Friday.
They spoke wed. Is people in attendance there and ask them is does this make a difference.
And virtually every one they spoke to while I just came here the president tonight but I'm gonna go well Roy Moore.
I think a lot of voters the party.
Really.
Don't know that the that the president's endorsement.
Is gonna make a difference here.
And Kyra you actually wrote a couple lines are flooded this year we need to have a loved going back through both of your columns by the way but this is backing you and you were talking about the state of the race then back within their other candidates as well.
You were describing Moore as a base and and strange is based.
Maurice Bates you described as.
Passionate but crazy.
And strange is based you described as sensible but ambivalent is that what the battle has come down to there.
I think it Roy wars.
His base has a ceiling and floor and both of those things are are trying to say here.
That's why you see low turnout today that's probably a good sign for Roy Moore is voters have a history.
Turning now.
Regardless if it's rain or shine for everybody else.
A lot you're more sort of centrist Republicans the ones do.
Would probably be leaning more towards.
Luther strange.
They're probably the most they're the most conflicting in this election.
Because Luther strange does have a lot of baggage a lot of us are self inflicted wounds in this campaign he did not happen this was an item that appointment.
You know he could have chosen to approach this as an outsider.
But he's always been the type of candidate through.
Chooses the path of waste resistance.
And right now at least that does not look like a path to victory.
So Alley let me get your take on this then because as you heard Kyle say look if turnout is low it may favor Roy Moore Luther strange his opponent at the one act by president trump who's appeared beside him.
After a campaign rally.
What is this say about president trump if his candidate can't win in this primary runoff.
My experience that street rally was seen.
As at the other guys is.
When I was talking to folks they are saying yes they wanna hear the president they love the president but they're voting for more.
So he notes ended his endorsement alone is going to sway a lot of voters street.
Not much the case strains really happy natural constituency in this age given that this.
The first time he's held and elected office and he wasn't elected.
So to the point question trumps.
The power of Trump's.
Endorsement it's never as simple as black and white either it's powerful or not ended this just proxy mortgage.
In it but it's very clear here that president trump that we air.
That's how books looking at this thing.
He mentioned in the rally on Friday night that if we don't wind we don't hold a sock that's going to be saying the system NASDAQ embarrassment.
Resident.
And I think to some extent.
Maybe not embarrassment but it's certainly going to give an indication that his endorsement alone is not enough to make the difference between victory and beat.
We're candidates that he endorses I was that the more rally I'm not far from here last night.
So much energy so much enthusiasm you have steep and it is ready he former campaign.
I and former White House strategists and folks just let him they embrace the outsider status and they don't like as as yet again mentioned.
They don't like effect that extreme we did see most voters get even if they're supporting strange they're skeptical about the circumstances under which got.
That appointment they they indicate that they don't like it would throw it sort of suggestion.
So it's really healing energy on the around here is our.
How much that say about president from enforcement will be talking about that burned through weeks and months to come.
But it's certainly going to be.
A major.
And power and persuasion.
John Archibald let me get you to jump in here we're talking a lot about their Republican candidates here because obviously we have the president weighing in.
On this particular race the tell me about the other side of the race who would they face off.
Against on the democratic fat.
They went Doug Jones.
Who as former US attorney whose most notable year for having prosecuted the last.
Sixteenth street Baptist Church bombers.
Back in the late ninety's.
I'm sort it out of politics why not Aurilia.
That's sort that is his generate enough the good bit of interest here which is unusual for a Democrat.
In a statement original now we haven't seen one really contention for a quarter century.
I'm so.
You know a lot of Democrats say it was him or.
Because he's the artist out.
Now and and we think that we'd be able.
A so they think that they have much chance for the first.
But let me ask you that what is at stake here when it comes to that competition the Republican verses with the eventual Republican verses this Democrat because you've written about this recently in terms of where Alabama politics are right now you wrote that the Democratic Party is in shambles Republicans hold a super majority in the legislature and no Democrat.
Hold statewide office so what exactly is at stake here.
That's exactly right it honestly.
And it's most bare bones the only thing that is at stake here is two years in the senate.
Because the Democratic Party isn't shambles the supermajority is not in danger and and people close to Derek Jones.
Think they have a shot for years but they're really even sell skeptical that they could win.
Again when this the regular election rolls around.
Just because of the machines.
And but that two years it's something that is unaccounted.
Think how let me get your take on this now because for all the national attention the conversation about a proxy board being fought there on in your state.
What if folks there think about all the national attention and a sort of ignoring it they're gonna go with their got when they vote are you people there care.
I think there's been some novelty to.
I think a lot of photos again made up their mind are good while ago.
Horror in if their offense I'm not sure that the president's endorsement horse bands endorsement.
Oh early endorsement of Sarah Palin or some of the others that we're seeing.
Has it has really made huge difference here.
Our problem I think they're going.
Going to the voting Booth minute clip Cohen all the know this but I don't see that those things making huge difference of that.
Alley Rogen you are out at the polls today they closed tonight at 8 PM.
When you talk to folks there the few you've run across are they saying.
What the issues are that are getting them out today what it is it's driving them to show up.
In this one race.
You're voting for senators range.
Martin's plane main aim client.
I'm very layered.
Down and not remember him by.
Spending.
09 big.
High added value Rogan live in Mobile, Alabama for at that it Johnny pilot giddy the last word here before we let you go.
How can folks and the rest of the country who have been paying so much attention to president trumpet minivan and Sarah Palin all weighing in.
On this one runoff rate passed today profits whatever happens.
In Alabama tonight on electing at the first word here.
Look first of its today that I don't really think you're the referendum on trial because I think that people in Alabama and support in order it from exactly the same regions they were trapped in about 80% of them still do.
I'm settlement he's well aren't Isa he's not someone whose transfer.
They see.
That's what he believes that an answer the bases.
There op.
Otherwise it more incidents at the United States senate.
Welcome now about.
I think.
Endorsement has made difference in this race has been to support Mitch McConnell.
For their strange and strange.
He's received a lot of money Rahm McConnell.
Packs.
McConnell.
The establishment.
Republican.
Bully others and it's very capable candidates would probably be in this race today if it for that.
This race.
And a lot of Al and saw and you know our officials.
And our rights but our unofficial motto is racial goal.
And way and we see.
The watched him was man.
O war.
You know I'll react there.
The biggest.
Endorsement has made difference here.
And it's it's one problem across chances are strange.
Pilot Myer John Archibald thanks so much for joining us today.
Thanks to you for watching as well acuity get the latest updates on that rates an Alabama.
Head over to abcnews.com.
At any time or download ABC news that get all the breaking news headlines and updates.
Write to your phone for now I'm on the Nevada and the actor since.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Polls have closed in Alabama, where Republican voters are chosing between establishment-aligned incumbent Luther Strange and populist firebrand Roy Moore to be their nominee in December's general election to fill now-Attorney General Jeff Sessions' former Senate seat.
The special election has gained national prominence because of what's at stake in this election: the political sway of Donald Trump's administration versus the folks who helped him win the White House.
ABC News will be providing updates throughout the evening as results come in.
Strange has the backing of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., and the Senate Leadership Fund has pumped $7 million into the race.
In the past week, President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence have traveled to Alabama to stump with Strange.
Moore, meanwhile, has been endorsed by several Trump supporters and former White House officials, including former White House strategist Steve Bannon, former White House adviser Sebastian Gorka and 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin.
At a Moore campaign rally last night, Bannon paraphrased William Shakespeare's funeral oration by Mark Antony for Julius Caesar, saying, "We did not come here to defy Donald Trump.
We came here to praise and honor him."
Sessions held the Senate seat for 20 years before he joined the Trump administration as attorney general.
In February, Alabama's then-Gov.
Robert Bentley appointed Strange, the state's attorney general at the time, to fill the Senate seat until the next general election, in 2018.
After Bentley's resignation because of a political scandal, thenLt.
Kay Ivey became governor and in April called for a special election.
Strange has been dogged by accusations that he accepted a quid pro quo arrangement because he asked state lawmakers in November to suspend their impeachment investigation into Bentley so that his office could conduct "related work."
Known as "Big Luther" -- at 6 foot 9, he is the tallest senator in U.S. history  he has also faced attacks for his work as a lobbyist for Sonat Offshore, an influential gas utility, and as a corporate lawyer in Birmingham.
Evan Vucci/AP

Before Moore ran for Senate, he was a controversial figure, displaying a wooden carving of the Ten Commandments in his courtroom in the 1990s when he served as a circuit court judge.
After he was elected Alabama's chief justice, Moore refused to remove a marble monument of the Ten Commandments that he installed outside the state Supreme Court in 2001, leading to his removal from office in 2003.
He was re-elected chief justice in November 2012 but was suspended in May 2016 after ordering state probate judges to ignore the U.S. Supreme Court's June 2015 ruling that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide.
He resigned in April of this year.
The first primary election was on Aug. 15.
None of the nine Republican candidates garnered over 50 percent of the vote, triggering a runoff.
Moore and Strange were the two top candidates; Moore won 38.9 percent of the vote, and Strange garnered 32.8 percent.
The winner of the Republican runoff will face Democrat Doug Jones in the Dec. 12 general election.
DEA Administrator Chuck Rosenberg is stepping down from his post, effective Oct. 1.
In a message emailed to employees announcing his departure, he thanked them for their courage, integrity and devotion.
The neighborhoods in which we live are better for your commitment to the rule of law, dedication to the cause of justice, and perseverance in the face of adversity, Rosenberg added.
Rosenberg rose through the ranks as a career Justice Department prosecutor and was eventually appointed by President George W. Bush to be U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2006 through 2008.
After leaving that prestigious post, Rosenberg spent five years of working in private practice.
He was pressed back into government service in 2013 to be FBI Director James Comeys chief of staff.
In 2015, President Barak Obama appointed him to be DEA administrator.
The Justice Department is in the process of selecting a replacement for Rosenberg.
A source familiar with the selection process told ABC News four people are being considered.
New Jersey State Police Superintendent Col. Rick Fuentes is considered to be the top choice.
Others in the running include Kentucky State Police Commissioner Rick Sanders, Mississippi Department of Public Safety Commissioner Marshall Fisher and former State Department Assistant Secretary for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Robert Charles.
The next DEA administrator will immediately have to grapple with the opioid crisis that has been declared a national emergency by President Donald Trump.
Image copyright PA Image caption Mr Corbyn says there is a "good mood" around Labour

Jeremy Corbyn is to tell supporters Labour is "on the threshold of power" and stands ready for government.
Addressing the party's conference in Brighton, he will say its general election showing has "put the Tories on notice", calling on ministers to "pull themselves together or make way".
He will also accuse the Conservatives of "self-interested Brexit bungling".
Aides said new policies would feature in the speech, in which he will also say business must be more accountable.
After Labour gained 30 seats in June's general election and helped force a hung Parliament, much of the talk in Brighton has been about Mr Corbyn's party preparing for government.
His shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, has described "war games" style planning for different scenarios it could face, including a run on the pound, should it win power at a future election.
Mr Corbyn will attempt to present his party as a government-in-waiting as he closes the conference.
"Against all predictions, in June we won the largest increase in the Labour vote since 1945 and achieved Labour's best vote for a generation," he will say.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn's interview with Laura Kuenssberg

"It's a result which has put the Tories on notice and Labour on the threshold of power.
"Yes, we didn't do quite well enough and we remain in opposition for now.
But we have become a government-in-waiting.
And our message to the country could not be clearer: Labour is ready."
Mr Corbyn spent the summer touring close-fought seats, and Labour aides said the party was currently selecting candidates in 76 Labour-Tory marginals, who would be in place by the end of the year.
Brexit has been another theme of the conference, with differences between MPs about the relationship with the EU single market Labour should pursue.
'Ill-served'

In what his spokesman billed as a "substantial" section on the UK's departure from the EU, Mr Corbyn will point the finger at divisions in Tory ranks, saying the Conservatives are "more interested in posturing for personal advantage than in getting the best deal for Britain".
"Never has the national interest been so ill-served on such a vital issue.
If there were no other reason for the Tories to go, their self-interested Brexit bungling would be reason enough," he will say.
"So I have a simple message to the cabinet: for Britain's sake pull yourself together or make way."
For much of his tenure, Mr Corbyn has faced heavy criticism from his MPs, including a no-confidence vote and a leadership challenge - but on Tuesday he told the BBC his party had united around his economic strategy.
Promising in government to "make public services accountable to communities" and "business accountable to the public", he will also say the challenge of automation must be urgently addressed.
"That is a threat in the hands of the greedy but what an opportunity if it's managed in the interests of society as a whole," he will say.
On Tuesday, Labour members backed changes to the party's rulebook, including a tightening of the rules on anti-Semitism after a debate about the extent it exists within Labour.
In an interview with BBC Newsnight, Unite chief Len McCluskey dismissed claims of an anti-Semitism problem in the party as "mood music that was created by people who were trying to undermine Jeremy Corbyn".
Image copyright Getty Images

Ministers should tighten the UK's official climate change target - or face the courts, the government's former chief scientist has said.
Prof Sir David King is supporting a legal case forcing ministers to shrink carbon emissions to zero by 2050.
He says the current government goal - an 80% emissions cut by the same date - is too weak to protect the climate.
Ministers have promised more ambitious climate policies in their forthcoming and long-delayed Clean Growth plan.
But Prof King told BBC News the government knew the 80% target cut behind that plan was too weak.
Some 18 months ago, Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom promised a 100% emissions reduction to keep the UK on track with its obligations under the 2015 Paris climate deal.
But ministers have failed to enshrine that 100% cut within the Climate Change Act.
Potential catastrophe

"This is crazy," Prof King told the BBC .
"The government knows very well what needs to be done - but it isn't doing it.
"If it takes legal action to force ministers to behave properly, then so be it - I'll support it."
Prof King is backing a preliminary legal action by a tiny group, Plan B, run by former government lawyer Tim Crosland.
It argues that Business Secretary Greg Clark is obliged under the act to tighten targets if the science shows it's needed.
This is the basis of the case.
Mr Crosland has written to Mr Clark and says if there's no satisfactory reply after 14 days, he'll take the case to the High Court for judicial review.
"The science has clearly hardened since the Climate Change Act was agreed," he said.
"If scientists are telling us our current course of emissions potentially takes us to catastrophe, then to stick to the current course is irrational.
"The best available science tells us the risks of crossing tipping points rise very sharply between 1.5 and 2C.
And that means the UK cutting emissions to zero."
Counter-productive?
His case would be argued in court by Jonathan Crow, Attorney General to Prince Charles, and a former senior Treasury lawyer.
Mr Crosland says his co-claimants are a rabbi "who learned not to ignore a humanitarian crisis"; young people fearing for the future; and a supporter from Mauritius representing island states at risk from rising sea water.
Other groups are similarly frustrated with long delays in the government's climate strategy, and some are also considering legal action.
There are fears, though, that pushing for a zero emissions strategy when the government can't yet reach its lower target may be counter-productive.
ClientEarth, one of the UK's most successful environment groups over the past decade, has pioneered the use of the courts to deliver environmental policies.
Jonathan Church, a climate lawyer with the group, said: "We hope that Plan B's claim will help draw attention to the urgency of the challenge we face and ensure that our government keeps its eye on the goals agreed in Paris.
"But targets do not on their own reduce emissions."
He added that the focus now should be ensuring that the Climate Change Act fulfils its purpose.
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright EPA

European Council president Donald Tusk has said not enough progress has been made to move to the next phase of Brexit talks in Brussels.
He said Theresa May's "realistic" speech on Friday showed the UK's "philosophy of having a cake and eating it is finally coming to an end".
But he said "there is not sufficient progress yet".
Mrs May had hoped her offer of a two-year transition period after Brexit would unblock talks in Brussels.
Emerging from Downing Street after talks with Mrs May, Mr Tusk said: "I feel cautiously optimistic about the constructive and more realistic tone in the prime minister's speech in Florence and of our discussion today.
"This shows that the philosophy of having a cake and eating it, is finally at an end.
At least I hope so.
That's good news.
"But of course no-one will ever tell me that Brexit is a good thing because as I have always said, in fact, Brexit is only about damage control.
"And I didn't change my opinion.
I feel now we will discuss our future relations with the UK once there is so-called sufficient progress.
"The two sides are working and we will work hard at it.
But if you ask me and if today member states ask me, I would say there is no sufficient progress yet.
But we will work on it."
His words come a month before the European Council will decide whether sufficient progress has been made to begin trade talks, as the UK wants.
Analysis

Image copyright Reuters

By BBC political correspondent Chris Mason, in Downing Street

Hesitant, understated, but with a very clear message.
In fact, so quietly spoken those of us listening here, crouched beneath the cameras, a metre from his shoes, could barely hear his words.
Two pieces of imagery have been frequently leaned on in updates on the Brexit negotiations.
The EU has a love of noisy timepieces; all those references to ticking clocks.
And the desire of some in the UK to have our cake and eat it crops up quite a bit too.
Mr Tusk's "hope" that the references to gorging on confectionery are over stood out.
But so too did his blunt assessment that more has to be achieved before the talks move on to the future relationship.
So, for the prime minister, did her Florence speech do the business?
From her perspective, it looks like it has worked a bit, but not yet enough.
The council says it first wants more detail on citizen's rights, a financial settlement and the Irish border before turning to the kind of trade deal the UK will have with the EU after it leaves.
Brexit Secretary David Davis, who is taking part in the fourth round of Brexit talks in Brussels, said that Mrs May had shown "leadership and flexibility" in her Florence speech and given reassurances on financial issues.
There were "no excuses for standing in the way of progress", he insisted.
But the EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier called for a "moment of clarity" from the UK.
Image copyright AFP

Speaking in Brussels, Mr Barnier said he was "keen and eager" for the UK to translate the "constructive" sentiments in Mrs May's speech into firm negotiating positions on issues such as citizens' rights, the Irish border and financial issues, including the UK's so-called divorce bill.
Remarking that it had been six months since the UK triggered Article 50, he said progress on these three fronts was essential to allow talks to move on to the future of the bilateral trade relationship, as the UK would like.
"We are six months into the process," he said.
"We are getting closer to the UK's withdrawal.
I think this moment should be a moment of clarity."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Phillippe Lamberts: "Sometimes I think this might be the factor that derails the Brexit negotiations even more than money"

Speaking ahead of her meeting with Mr Tusk, Mrs May said that "by being creative" the UK and the EU can maintain cooperation and partnership when the UK leaves the EU.
And she said that "things have moved on" in terms of the discussions and negotiations in the Brexit talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Unite boss suggested enemies of Mr Corbyn were behind the claims

Labour does not have a problem with anti-Semitism, Len McCluskey has said, suggesting those who believe it does are seeking to undermine Jeremy Corbyn.
The Unite leader told the BBC that he had never heard anti-Semitic language at any party meeting he had attended.
Claims the leadership was condoning anti-Semitism, racism and misogyny were designed to "bring Jeremy Corbyn down".
His comments came shortly after members voted to back new rules to tackle claims of anti-Semitism in the party.
The Jewish Labour Movement (JLM) is demanding action over what it says was the use of an "anti-Semitic trope" in the conference hall at Brighton.
It is calling for "zero tolerance" of such comments at the event.
Asked whether he recognised suggestions that Labour still had a problem with anti-Semitism, Mr McCluskey said any attacks on Jewish people would get "short shrift" at any meeting he attended.
"No, I've never recognised that.
I believe it was mood music that was created by people who were trying to undermine Jeremy Corbyn," he told BBC Newsnight.
"In 47 years of membership in the Labour Party I've never been at a meeting where there was any anti-Semitic language."
Asked why it had become an issue of growing concern within the party, he added: "Unfortunately at the time there were lots of people playing games, everybody wanted to create this image that Jeremy Corbyn's leadership had become misogynist, had become racist, had become anti-Semitic and it was wrong."
'Festering'

Earlier on Tuesday, Labour members voted to back a tightening of the party's rules against "racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia or otherwise racist language, sentiments, stereotypes or actions, sexual harassment, bullying or any form of intimidation towards another person".
During the debate, Labour peer Lord Dubs claimed Mr Corbyn's initial slowness to act against anti-Semitism had allowed it to "fester" in the party.
The peer, who escaped the Nazis on a Kindertransport from Prague in 1939 at the age of six, said the Labour leader was now dealing with it.
The Board of Deputies of British Jews welcomed Labour's rule change.
Its chief executive, former Labour MP Gillian Merron, said the need for robust action was "particularly important after the ugly scenes we have witnessed during this conference".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ken Loach on 'false' anti-Semitism claims by Labour MPs

But some delegates have suggested the new rule amounted to an attempt to police "thought crime".
Naomi Wimborne-Idrissi, of the Free Speech on Israel group, said she was concerned that it made reference to the "holding of beliefs" as opposed to expressing them.
She told delegates the Jewish Labour Movement would have "a bit more credibility" if it "didn't spend so much of its time running to the Daily Mail and Daily Telegraph with stories".
At a fringe event later on Tuesday, JLM chair Jeremy Newmark said her remarks - which were applauded by some in the hall - accusing Jews of colluding with the right-wing media amounted to anti-Semitism.
He said he expected the conference arrangements committee to "take action against that delegate who levelled an anti-Semitic trope against our vice chair (Mike Katz) on conference floor", as part of a commitment to creating "an atmosphere of zero tolerance of anti-Semitism" at the event.
Warren Morgan, Labour leader of Brighton and Hove City Council, has written to the party's general secretary, Iain McNicol, demanding "reassurances that there will be no repeat of the behaviour and actions we have seen this week before any further bookings from the party are taken".
'Principled stand'

Gideon Falter, chairman of the campaign Against Antisemitism praised Mr Morgan's "principled stand" after reports "from Jewish delegates that they feel uncomfortable being Jewish at the conference".
Brighton and Hove Labour Party is currently suspended by the national Labour Party, following a separate row.
Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson has reportedly promised to launch an investigation into how it gave a platform at a conference fringe event to a speaker who said people should be allowed to question if the Holocaust happened.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Labour leadership waves to delegates at the end of the third day of Labour's conference

Film maker Ken Loach has, meanwhile, told the BBC's Daily Politics he had been attending Labour meetings for 50 years and had "never in that whole time heard a single anti-Semitic word or a racist word".
He added: "It is funny that these stories only appeared when Jeremy Corbyn became leader isn't it?"
The director, who recently rejoined the Labour fold after supporting rival left-wing parties, said such reports had arisen because Mr Corbyn "has been a long-time supporter of the Palestinians and the injustice that has been done to them".
Asked about Labour MPs who have raised concerns about anti-Semitism, he said: "I think their aim is to destabilise Jeremy's leadership".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn's interview with Laura Kuenssberg

Jeremy Corbyn says Labour has united around his "different" economic strategy and promised "more details" on the party's flagship policies.
Speaking to the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg, he defended the need for more borrowing to fund his spending priorities.
He said he wanted all PFI contracts in public hands, likening them to "buying a house on a credit card".
"There's a pretty good mood around," he said, adding that he was ready for another general election at any time.
Mr Corbyn also said shadow chancellor John McDonnell was "right to look at all these scenarios" after he suggested that there needed to be planning in case there was a run on the pound if Labour went into government.
Mr McDonnell, a key ally of Mr Corbyn's, said the party was preparing detailed plans for government in the event of it winning an election called at short notice, including "war-game-type scenario-planning" for events such as "a run on the pound".
In the interview, the Labour leader said if he became prime minister he would hope to take all PFI-funded public sector projects back into public ownership.
While many of the schools built through private finance over the past 25 years were "wonderful buildings", he said they were "paying through the nose for it".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mishal Husain questions Jon Ashworth on when exactly he changed his mind on PFI

"It's like buying a house on a credit card," he said.
"It's not a sensible way of doing things...
I want to see public buildings developed and run by the public and funded by the traditional form of public investment and borrowing which is actually cheaper, more secure and more efficient than PFI contracts."
Speaking on Monday, Mr McDonnell said "wasteful" PFI contracts could cost the public purse 200bn over the coming decades while yielding "enormous profits" for the private sector.
He pledged to end this "scandal" by "bringing them in-house".
But shadow health secretary Jon Ashworth has since suggested many of these contracts could be renegotiated rather than bought out.
'Love not fear'

Asked if there were mixed messages from senior figures on the issue, Mr Corbyn said this was a "fair point" adding that council-owned companies had already bought out some PFI deals.
"I have no problem with that.
Jon is quite right.
Be slightly cautious on some of the health PFIs," he said.
There has been a buoyant mood at party conference this year after Labour defied expectations to gain 30 seats and wipe out the Conservatives' majority in June's general election.
Image copyright EPA Image caption The shadow cabinet gathered on stage with Jeremy Corbyn in a show of unity

For much of his tenure, Mr Corbyn has faced heavy criticism from his MPs, including a no-confidence vote and a leadership challenge - but he said the party was now "pretty united".
Asked if he had won the argument inside Labour, he said: "I was proud to stand and pleased to be elected - yes, there was a challenge but that's a year ago, let's pass that by - and I've put forward an economic strategy.
"We've put forward an economic strategy which is different and the party actually...is pretty united around the basic principles.
There's a pretty good feeling and mood around."
Deputy leader Tom Watson has said he was wrong to doubt Mr Corbyn, and paid tribute to the leader in his speech in Brighton, singing his name from the stage and referring to him as "our next prime minister".
Recalling hearing the Jeremy Corbyn chant for the first time at Glastonbury, Mr Watson said: "As they sang, I realised it's actually better to be loved than to be feared.
And Jeremy has shown us that it's possible."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: We have to scenario-plan so people know we're ready

Jeremy Corbyn says it is "right to look at all these scenarios" after his shadow chancellor suggested that there could be a run on the pound if Labour went into government.
John McDonnell said Labour was doing "war-game-type scenario-planning" for events such as "a run on the pound".
He made the comments at a fringe event at the Labour conference.
A party spokesman said the preparations were for events that could occur under any government.
Labour gained 30 seats in June's general election, helping deprive the Conservatives of a majority, and the party says it is preparing for another snap poll.
Mr Corbyn backed Mr McDonnell in an interview with BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg, telling her that his colleague was "making the point that you've got to look at all these things and all these scenarios".
"John is right to look at all these scenarios because if we're going to move into government we need to know what we're going to do but also look at all the scenarios we might face," he said.
Mr McDonnell had suggested a "radical" Labour government determined to do things differently would face a range of challenges and was seeking to "answer the question about what happens when, or if, they come for us".
Asked about the "they" his colleague was referring to, Mr Corbyn said he thought Mr McDonnell was "talking about the people John doesn't like", before adding: "I think he's looking back again to the experience of the past Labour governments."
Labour governments during the 1960s and 1970s came under financial pressure in the markets, leading them to devalue the pound, by lowering the exchange rate, on more than one occasion.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn: Got to look at all scenarios

A run on the pound refers to a situation in which international investors and market speculators sell sterling and sell sterling assets en masse, forcing its value down.
It last occurred in September 1992 when, on a day known as Black Wednesday, the falling value of sterling forced the then Conservative government to pull out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism after its attempts to support the currency failed.
Mr Corbyn claimed there had "effectively" been a run on the pound since the Leave vote in the 2016 Brexit referendum, a result which led to a sharp drop in the value of sterling the next day - the pound has remained more than 10% below its pre-referendum levels.
'Detailed work'

Labour's last election manifesto contained pledges to bring rail and water companies and Royal Mail back into public ownership as well as a number of other large spending commitments - to be funded by borrowing and higher taxes on business and the better-off.
Speaking on Monday, Mr McDonnell said a future Labour administration would not be "traditional" and "people want to know we're ready, and they want to know we've got a response to anything that could happen".
Labour, he argued, must "scenario-plan" for all kinds of potential challenges it might face in government "bringing the relevant expertise together at every level to talk through what happens if there is such and such a reaction".
"What if there is a run on the pound?
What happens if there is this concept of capital flight?
I don't think there will be, but you never know.
"We've got to start work now how exactly are we going to manage these industries when we take them back into public ownership?
And let's start doing the detailed work now.
Let's start doing the consultations with consumers or passengers or whoever and also with local authorities and local councils or whoever."
A Labour spokesman said: "This was an exercise not done by us but by members.
The scenarios were to deal with numerous events such as national disasters and acts of terror that could occur under any government."
Speaking at the same conference fringe event as Mr McDonnell, former broadcaster Paul Mason warned the first six months of a Corbyn government would be "like Stalingrad", with attacks from the establishment.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In full: Laura Kuenssberg interviews Jeremy Corbyn

Mark Serwotka, of the PCS union representing civil servants, said Labour would face "huge" opposition if it won power, predicting that "all the usual arms of the ruling class will be brought to bear".
This included using financial markets to bring "economic pressures" including "the flight of capital" and trying to destabilise the economy, he said at a fringe event organised by the Corbyn-supporting Momentum group.
He also said Labour would have to resist pressure from senior civil servants, "Sir Humphreys", who wanted to preserve the status quo.
"We have got to be prepared," he said.
But the Conservatives said Labour's nationalisation plans, as well as its intention to buy out PFI contracts for the running of schools, hospitals and other public services, would result in "a collapse in business investment and a crash in the value of the pound".
"Labour's plans would go too far, and ordinary working people will end up footing the bill," Chancellor Philip Hammond said.
And the Lib Dems said it was Labour's support for Brexit which risked an "economic collapse".
Image copyright PA

Labour has said it would force bookmakers to pay a compulsory levy to help treat problem gamblers.
Deputy leader Tom Watson said the cash would be used for treatment to end the "destructive cycle of addiction".
Speaking at the party conference in Brighton, he urged gambling firms to "stop targeting vulnerable people and start acting properly".
The Association of British Bookmakers said it wouldn't oppose an "appropriate levy" to help treat gambling addicts.
Labour has vowed to tackle Britain's "hidden epidemic of gambling addiction", and earlier this month proposed a ban on adverts for betting firms on football shirts.
Mr Watson returned to the theme in his speech to delegates on Tuesday, saying some companies are "deliberately targeting our poorest communities even as hundreds of thousands of lives are ruined by addiction".
"Gambling addiction is an illness and it's about time it was taken seriously," he said.
He announced a review which will also examine the ability of the NHS to offer mental health services to gambling addicts.
'Working together'

A 2015 report by the Gambling Commission estimated the number of "problem gamblers" to be between 300,000 to 430,000 people.
It defined this as "gambling to a degree that compromises, disrupts or damages family, personal or recreational pursuits".
Currently, gambling companies make voluntary contributions to the charity GambleAware to help pay for education, research, and treating gambling addiction.
But Labour will consider replacing this with a compulsory system.
The Association of British Bookmakers said it backed an "evidence-based approach to helping problem gambling in the UK and would support Mr Watson's idea of a review, if it facilitated this".
A spokesman added: "We also would not oppose an appropriate, compulsory levy on the gambling industry to fund problem gambling treatment, as we have long argued that the gambling industry needs to work together to reduce the number of problem gamblers and address the fact that most problem gamblers move between different forms of gambling."
Also on day three of Labour's conference in Brighton, shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth called for a 500m winter bailout for the NHS.
Labour say the extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care.
The party has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and says a winter bailout could be paid for through this.
The government said it has "robust plans in place" for winter which are supported by "an extra 100m for A&E departments and 2bn funding for the social care system".
Have you had issues with gambling?
What help has been available to you?
Share your experiences with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright PA

Labour says it would spend 10m to end "period poverty" in schools in England if it forms the next government.
Earlier this year, a charity, Freedom4Girls, reported that girls in the UK were missing school because they could not afford sanitary protection.
Shadow education secretary Angela Rayner told its conference this was a "scandal" and every child would get the support they needed under Labour.
Scotland is piloting offering free sanitary products to women and girls.
Ms Rayner told delegates in Brighton that action was needed on the issue in England too.
"As well as giving our schools the resources they need, we must ensure they give every child the support they deserve.
All our pupils deserve a good quality of life.
So I am proud to say that as your secretary of state I will allocate 10m from our departmental budget to end the scandal of period poverty in our schools," she said.
Last year MPs backed the abolition of the "tampon tax", an EU-wide 5% VAT levy on sanitary products, after the government accepted a Labour amendment to the Budget.
This followed public pressure and a petition signed by 300,000 people.
In its election manifesto, the Green Party promised free sanitary products for pupils and women on low incomes.
The Conservative government has said it will look at the issue.
Image copyright PA

Labour is calling on the government to spend an extra 500m on a winter bailout fund for the NHS in England.
Shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said the cash was needed to increase capacity in struggling hospitals and pay for extra staff.
He also said it was Labour's "ambition" to return NHS funding increases to the same level as during the 1997-2010 Labour governments.
The Department for Health says it has "robust" plans in place for the winter.
And it will pump "an extra 100m for [accident and emergency] departments and 2bn funding for the social care system" to get it through the cold season.
But Mr Ashworth said: "We've had no clear explanation from [Health Secretary] Jeremy Hunt and [Prime Minister] Theresa May about how the NHS will be prepared this winter.
"We are hearing that we could have a serious flu outbreak this winter.
"So if the government have robust plans, we need them to come forward."
Extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care, Mr Ashworth said in a speech to the party's conference in Brighton later.
He told delegates the prime minister must not stick her "head in the sand" because a "collapse" on the same scale as last year's winter crisis would lead to thousands of people waiting longer for A&E treatment.
Labour has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and changes to corporation tax.
Mr Ashworth told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the 7bn extra promised for the NHS in Labour's general election manifesto was a "substantial investment".
But he said it fell short of what was needed in the long-term, which was a return to the increases seen during the last Labour governments.
"We should be giving the NHS 4% a year, and I want us to work towards getting back to that 4% increase," he told Today.
"But what I cannot do is say on day one of a Labour government it will definitely be 4% because we have to manage the public finances prudently."
Asked about shadow chancellor John McDonnell's announcement that Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts would be brought "in-house" if Labour won power, he said it would "take time" and not happen "overnight".
"NHS experts generally accept that it is only a handful which are causing hospital trusts across the country a significant problem, but let's look at every single one in detail," Mr Ashworth said.
"I am not going to make a sort of hypothetical guess of how many contracts will be [brought back in-house].
"There are a handful of hospital trusts who have got a problem with their deficits and their financing which is because of the PFI contract they are in."
Image copyright Getty Images

Actor Tony Booth, who starred in BBC sitcom Till Death Us Do Part, has died, his family have said.
Booth, who was 85, had been suffering from Alzheimer's for more than 10 years and had suffered heart problems.
He had a 50-year acting career and appeared in numerous TV shows including Coronation Street, EastEnders, Emmerdale and The Bill.
He was also a political activist and the father of Cherie Booth and father-in-law to ex-prime minister Tony Blair.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Booth (left) starred in Till Death Us Do Part with Una Stubbs, Dandy Nichols and Warren Mitchell

Tony Booth often spoke out against his son-in-law's government and wrote about their life in Downing Street in his autobiography What's Left?.
He campaigned to raise the state pension and criticised the government over the Iraq war.
But he was close to his daughter and was at her side for events including when she was sworn in as a QC.
Image caption Tony Booth was often at his daughter Cherie's side

A statement released on behalf of his wife Steph Booth said he had "passed away late last night with close family members in attendance".
The statement added: "The family ask for their privacy to be respected at this time."
Image copyright PA Image caption In 1987 Booth played Alec Gilroy's best man Charles Halliday in Coronation Street

Born in Liverpool in 1931, Booth discovered a talent for acting during his National Service.
He won parts in shows including Z Cars and Dixon of Dock Green before landing the role of "Scouse git" Mike in Till Death Us Do Part.
Booth played the left-wing son-in-law of right-wing Cockney Alf Garnett in the show between 1966 and 1975.
Image copyright PA Image caption Booth married Coronation Street actress Pat Phoenix in 1986

In real life, Booth was married four times - his third wife was Pat Phoenix who played Elsie Tanner in Coronation Street.
She died a week after they married in 1986.
Booth also appeared in Coronation Street in two stints, in the 1960s and again in 1987.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: "It's what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing contracts back in-house."
A future Labour government would bring "wasteful" PFI contracts back in the public sector, shadow chancellor John McDonnell has said.
He told Labour's conference the contracts were set to cost the taxpayer 200bn over coming decades and private companies were making "huge profits".
He said Labour, which has previously promised to strike no new deals, would bring PFI contracts "back in-house".
Labour sources later said this meant they would "review" all PFI contracts.
This means it is not clear whether all existing PFI contracts would be taken back - although shadow chief secretary to the Treasury Peter Dowd told the BBC's Daily Politics he expected the "bulk" to "come back in".
The PFI model of funding public services such as new schools and hospitals was pioneered by the Conservatives in the 1990s and has continued under successive governments.
But Mr McDonnell told activists in Brighton that it was draining the public sector of resources and its time was at an end.
"The scandal of the Private Finance Initiative has resulted in huge long-term costs for taxpayers while providing enormous profits for some companies," he said.
"Over the next few decades, nearly 200 billion is scheduled to be paid out of public sector budgets in PFI deals.
In the NHS alone, 831 million in pre-tax profits have been made over the past six years.
"Never again will this waste of taxpayer money be used to subsidise the profits of shareholders, often based in offshore tax havens."
He added: "We have already pledged there will be no new PFI deals signed by us in government.
But we will go further.
It is what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing PFI contracts back in-house".
The BBC's assistant political editor Norman Smith said such a move would "end the 25-year consensus" on using the private sector to fund major projects but to do so would require a "massive" compensation bill and it was not clear where the money would come from.
What is PFI and how prevalent is it?
Image copyright PA Image caption PFI-funded projects range from hospitals and waste facilities to army barracks

PFI is a way of financing investment in public infrastructure using private capital.
Private firms stump up the cost of building facilities - such as a hospital or school - and, in return, the state makes payments over a period of time - often about 25 years - for their use and management.
The model has been attractive to governments of all political persuasions as it limits upfront capital expenditure and reduces risk while future payment obligations do not count towards the national debt.
However, its value for money has long been questioned.
As of March 2016 there were 716 PFI projects, 686 of which were still operational.
The others had either been cancelled or had reached the end of the contract period.
The SNP government stopped new PFI contracts when it came to power in Scotland, replacing them with NPDs (non-profit distributing projects).
One leading economist, John Appleby, from the Nuffield Trust, told the BBC that the NHS alone was repaying private firms about 2bn a year for PFI schemes and the cost of interest payments for completed projects was likely to total 56bn by 2048.
But he added: "The trouble with these kind of announcements is the fine print of the details.
Taking them back into public ownership does not come free.
The money will have to come from somewhere."
But Dave Prentis, from Unison, welcomed the move - saying that although there would be a cost to buying out the contracts it would still be "better value" for the taxpayer than letting them continue for the next 20 years.
Mr McDonnell said Labour had proved doubters wrong by making gains in June's snap election and its goal was to get into power, "rescue" the UK from austerity and "set the political agenda for a generation".
"We have proved we are an effective campaigning party," he said.
"We now have to prove we will be an effective governing party."
He promised to bring "ownership and control of the utilities and key services into the hands of people who use and work in them - rail, water, energy, Royal Mail - we're taking them back".
'Misplaced nostalgia'

Carolyn Fairbairn, director general of the employers organisation the CBI, said Mr McDonnell's plans on nationalisation and PFI were "the wrong plan at the wrong time".
"Forced nationalisation of large parts of British industry will send investors running for the hills, and puts misplaced nostalgia ahead of progressive vision," she said.
And the Conservatives said Labour's promises were "unaffordable" and would not improve public services.
In his speech, Mr McDonnell also promised legislation limiting the amount of interest that can be charged on credit card debts, which he said would ensure no-one would pay more than they borrowed in the first place.
Labour said the proposals would work in a similar way to measures on payday loans, which came into force in 2015, and help people trapped in a "persistent debt spiral".
UK Finance, which represents the financial and banking industry, said it was committed to responsible lending and "the last thing the industry wants is to see those who are most vulnerable being pushed towards the hands of unscrupulous and unregulated lenders".
Image copyright AFP

The EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier has called for a "moment of clarity" from the UK as talks resumed.
At the start of a fourth round of talks, Mr Barnier said the process had been going six months and progress on key separation issues was essential.
For the UK, David Davis said Theresa May had shown "leadership and flexibility" in her Florence speech and given reassurances on financial issues.
There were "no excuses for standing in the way of progress", he insisted.
The new round of negotiations is the first chance for the EU team to respond to Mrs May's speech in Italy last week, in which she said the UK wanted a two-year transition period and would honour its financial obligations.
The prime minister aimed to restore momentum to a process that was widely reported to be stalling.
Speaking in Brussels, Mr Barnier said he was "keen and eager" for the UK to translate the "constructive" sentiments in Mrs May's speech into firm negotiating positions on issues such as citizens' rights, the Irish border and financial issues, including the UK's so-called divorce bill.
Remarking that it had been six months since the UK triggered Article 50, he said progress on these three fronts was essential to allow talks to move on to the future of the bilateral trade relationship, as the UK would like.
"We are six months into the process," he said.
"We are getting closer to the UK's withdrawal.
I think this moment should be a moment of clarity."
Mr Davis said he hoped for progress on all fronts but made clear any agreement on financial matters could only be reached in the context of the UK's future partnership with the EU.
"The UK is absolutely committed to work through the detail.
We are laying out concrete proposals and there are no excuses for standing in the way of progress."
Budget black hole

In her speech on Friday, Mrs May offered to continue paying into the EU for a two-year transition after the UK leaves in 2019 to ensure the bloc is not left with a budget black hole.
The prime minister sought to reassure member states that they would not lose out financially during the current EU budget period, which runs to 2020.
She also confirmed there would be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition period, but after Brexit they would be registered as they arrived.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The EU's Brexit negotiator has said more progress needs to be made on "separation" issues

Mr Davis has insisted that Mrs May's speech was not influenced by a 4,000-word article by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, in the run-up to the event, setting out his own vision for Brexit.
Meanwhile, the UK and Scottish governments have held a fresh round of talks on Brexit in London.
Scotland's Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Brexit minister Mike Russell met First Secretary of State Damian Green to discuss concerns about the EU Withdrawal Bill.
And Mrs May has held talks in Downing Street with Irish premier Leo Varadkar, in her first meeting with an EU leader since the Florence speech.
Mr Varadkar said his counterpart's proposal for a post-Brexit transitional period was a step in the right direction but it was too early to say whether the UK had made sufficient progress in general.
Image copyright PA

The Labour leadership has insisted its approach to Brexit is "grown-up and pragmatic" as it faced opposition from some activists at its conference.
Shadow Brexit Secretary Sir Keir Starmer said customs union and single market options should not be "swept off the table" at this stage.
He accused the Tories of "joyriding" the economy "off a cliff-edge".
But he faced claims that by not opposing Brexit Labour were letting the Tories "do what they want".
Members in Brighton discussed Brexit for an hour on Monday morning amid a row over why more time was not being given to the issue after it was not chosen by delegates among eight policy motions for full debate.
The focus of the session was about building agreement around Labour's existing policy and there will be no vote on contentious issues such as the future of single market membership.
But a number of Labour members criticised the party's pro-Brexit stance, suggesting they were giving the government a free ride.
Cameron Clack, from Stamford and Grantham, said Labour had "voted away" its chance to keep the UK in the single market and customs union, telling activists we "will be remembered as the opposition that let the Tories to do what they want with Brexit".
"We're supposed to be a party of outward-looking, internationalist, democratic socialists," he said.
But Sir Keir Starmer said that rather than laying down "rash ideological red lines" during the negotiations, Labour had settled on an agreed position which respected the result of last year's referendum but prioritised the economy and trade in exit talks.
Failing to reach any kind of deal with the EU was not a "viable option", warning that continued collaboration and co-operation was vital.
Analysis

By Laura Kuenssberg

What the shenanigans over a debate at Labour conference on the contentious issues around Brexit really shows us is who has the whip-hand now in the party.
The Corbyn-backing campaign group Momentum organised its members to choose subjects other than Brexit to be debated fully at the conference this week.
It wasn't directly snuffed out by the leadership, it was a vote of delegates, but they act to protect their political hero.
Brexit is essentially the only big issue where Jeremy Corbyn is in conflict with the Labour membership.
Motions that advocated membership of the single market or continuing freedom of movement clashed with the party's carefully constructed position on the EU and therefore would have given Corbyn's team a rough ride on the conference floor.
Read more

"Labour are now the grown-ups in the room," Mr Starmer said, insisting that "remaining in a form of customs union after a transition post-Brexit phase remained a "possible end destination" for the party.
"We are also flexible as to whether the benefits of the single market are best retained by negotiating a new single market relationship or working up from a bespoke trade deal," he added.
"The outcome is what matters."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Confused about Labour's position on Brexit?
Labour has faced accusations it is downplaying the issue during its conference but shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry said Labour's front bench were "all pulling in the same direction" over Brexit.
Earlier, shadow chancellor John McDonnell insisted Labour was not trying to ignore the issue but the leadership had "no control" over issues chosen by members to be voted on, which include housing, rail, the NHS and pay but not Europe.
"The delegates choose their priorities and that is what they have done," he told BBC Radio 4's Today.
"The leadership does not control that at all... the whole point of our party now is to hand our party back to the membership."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Emily Thornberry: "I know that Boris doesn't like paternity tests, but maybe we need one for Brexit"

The Jeremy Corbyn-supporting Momentum group had urged its members not to support a resolution on Brexit, emailing them with an alternative list of subjects to choose - including the Grenfell Tower tragedy, rail, growth and investment, workers' rights and social care.
Several Labour MPs tweeted their displeasure at suggestions Brexit was being downplayed.
The BBC's political editor Laura Kuenssberg said that while minimising the opportunities for conflict might be seen as "politically clever", given the divisions in the party over Brexit, she said many MPs would find the situation "frustratingly vague".
But Hove activist Darryl Telles said a Stop Brexit protest on the first day of conference was intended to "undermine" Jeremy Corbyn's leadership.
"I remember the Monty Python sketch, the parrot is dead, it doesn't exist, it has ceased to exist.
You have as much chance of stopping Brexit as Jeremy Corbyn has of wearing my Tottenham shirt."
Although Labour's ruling NEC will finalise an agreed statement on Brexit that delegates will be allowed to vote on this afternoon in an attempt to defuse tensions, it will not commit the party to single market membership beyond the transition period.
Image copyright Getty Images

A senior Labour MP has said he is shocked at some of the anti-Semitic tweets by party members that come before its disciplinary panel.
John Cryer said some of what is written "makes your hair stand up", adding: "This stuff is redolent of the 1930s."
He was speaking at a fringe debate at the Labour conference in Brighton.
Labour says it condemns anti-Semitism in the "strongest possible terms" with "tough new rules" recently agreed by the party's ruling executive committee.
These changes to the rule book will be voted on by delegates in Brighton on Tuesday.
The fringe debate, organised by the Holocaust Educational Trust and the Anti-Semitism Policy Trust, looked at anti-Semitism on the left of politics.
Panellists agreed there had been a recent increase in people questioning the Holocaust.
Image caption John Cryer (second left of panel) said claims of anti-Semitism in Labour were not a "myth"

Mr Cryer, Labour MP for Leyton and Wanstead, described a "seeping poison" and warned that future generations might not realise that when it came to Nazism, "we were right and they were wrong".
As chairman of the Parliamentary Labour Party, he sits on the disputes panel of the National Executive Committee, which rules on what members have "said, written or tweeted", he told the audience.
"I have seen some of the tweets from paid up Labour Party members and I am not kidding you, it makes your hair stand up," he said.
Some Labour members dismiss reports of anti-Semitism as a myth, he said.
"But you don't have to look very far before you see it's not a myth...and there's no place in the Labour Party for stuff like that."
Another MP, Wes Streeting, said a "rump" of anti-Semites in Labour should be "driven out" of the party.
"It isn't anti-Semitic to criticise the Israeli government," he said.
"Unfortunately we see too many people examples of anti-Semitic language being used in order to do so."
'Ignorant attitudes'

Karen Pollock, chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: "Why do people want to question the truth of the Holocaust?
"Do we question whether the earth is flat?
There are certain stories that can't have two sides."
Last year, an inquiry was carried out into claims of anti-Semitism in the Labour Party following the suspension of MP Naz Shah and ex-London mayor Ken Livingstone.
It found there was evidence of "ignorant attitudes" but that the "Labour Party is not overrun by anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, or other forms of racism".
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn was then criticised when its author, Shami Chakrabarti, was nominated to become a Labour peer.
Mr Livingstone, who denies accusations of anti-Semitism, is currently suspended from Labour over comments he made about Adolf Hitler and Zionism.
A party spokesman said: "Labour condemns anti-Semitism in the strongest possible terms and our NEC unanimously passed tough new rule changes last week.
"All groupings in the party should treat one another with respect.
We will not tolerate anti-Semitism or Holocaust denial."
Image caption Theresa May greets Leo Varadkar at 10 Downing Street

It is too early to say whether the UK has made sufficient progress in Brexit talks, the Irish prime minister has said.
Taoiseach Leo Varadkar was speaking after talks with Prime Minister Theresa May in Downing Street.
Mr Varadkar gave Mrs May's speech in Florence a cautious welcome.
Speaking to reporters following their talks, he said her proposal for a post-Brexit transitional period was a step in the right direction.
Image caption Mr Varadkar's visit is Mrs May's first meeting with a European leader since her Florence speech last week

Mr Varadkar said the two leaders were in a "shared space" on trying to get Northern Ireland's Executive up and running again - adding that it was important that the UK government did not want any form of physical border on the island of Ireland.
Analysis: BBC News NI political editor Mark Devenport

Mr Varadkar said neither he nor the Prime Minister are contemplating failure in their efforts to restore devolution at Stormont.
He played down the need for external intervention and said he could see no advantage in holding another Stormont election.
He also registered his strong opposition to direct rule from Westminster.
On Brexit, the Taoiseach welcomed the Prime Minister's commitment last week that there should be no physical infrastructure on the border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
He said Brexit negotiations between the EU and the UK have, so far, not made sufficient progress to allow the talks to move on to discuss a trade deal after the UK's departure.
However, he said that may change by the end of October when European leaders meet in Brussels.
Sinn Fin's Stormont leader Michelle O'Neill said the Irish government must assert itself to defend the interests of all Irish citizens.
"The DUP's support for the right-wing Tory Brexit means there is a greater onus on Dublin to use its influence at the negotiating table with the other European states," she said.
Speaking ahead of an event at the Labour Conference in Brighton, SDLP leader Colum Eastwood described Brexit as a "political tsunami", which would come crashing down.
'Madness beyond description'

"It is madness beyond description that the place set to be most affected by this crisis has no voice in the negotiations," he added.
Image caption Michelle O'Neill said Mr Varadkar's government must assert itself

Shadow NI Secretary Owen Smith said the government must consider a post-Brexit solution where Northern Ireland retained some form of membership of the Single Market and the Customs Union.
He said such a move would be an 'imaginative solution'.
Former NI secretary Peter Hain said not enough progress had been made in the Brexit negotiations.
"Theresa May's hard Brexit policies will create serious difficulties for Northern Ireland, sabotaging the Good Friday Agreement, putting jobs at risk by restricting cross-border trade and complicating the rights of Northern Irish citizens who travel to the Republic for work and to visit relatives," he added.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption David Davis said there was a desire to maintain the Common Travel Area

Brexit Secretary David Davis has said the UK and EU will be "crunching through the technical detail" when they discuss Northern Ireland in Brussels on Wednesday.
Mr Davis said there was a shared desire to maintain the Common Travel Area (CTA) and protect the Good Friday Agreement.
He said the two sides needed to work through the details to make that happen.
'Black hole'

In her speech in Florence on Friday, the Prime Minister offered to continue paying into EU coffers during the transition period to ensure the bloc is not left with a budget black hole.
Mrs May said there should be a two-year transition period after the UK leaves the EU in 2019, during which trade would continue on current terms.
Mrs May restated the UK's position that there would be no hard Irish border after Brexit.
Although the UK will be leaving both the customs union and the single market, she said that both the UK and EU had "stated explicitly" they would not accept any "physical infrastructure" along the frontier.
Following Monday's meeting, Downing Street said that maintaining the current British and Irish Common Travel Area and the citizenship rights guaranteed by the Good Friday Agreement are at the heart of the government's approach to Brexit.
Number Ten said the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach also discussed a trade dispute between US Aircraft manufacturer Boeing and Canadian plane maker Bombardier, which has a plant in east Belfast.
The leaders expressed their shared concern about the impact this could have on jobs and livelihoods in Northern Ireland.
Meanwhile, the Welsh first minister has said that, when it comes to discussions with the UK government about Brexit, Northern Ireland's voice is "not being heard."
Speaking at the Labour Conference in Brighton, Carwyn Jones told the BBC "a Westminster minister can never have the same kind of clout or knowledge that a politician from Northern Ireland, or politicians can have".
Image caption Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones said Brexit trading issues could not be addressed until the question of the Irish border was resolved

He said the issue of the Irish border needed to be given the top priority in discussions between the UK and the EU.
"Unless you resolve the issue of the border you cannot resolve issues around the single market and the customs union.
The UK can not be out of the customs union but have an open and patrolled border with a country that is in the customs union - it just does not work," Mr Jones said.
He said the UK should stay in the single market, and said the experience of Norway should be used as an example.
Northern Ireland has effectively been without a devolved government since January.
Its institutions collapsed amid a bitter row between the DUP and Sinn Fin about a botched green energy scheme.
Several rounds of talks have failed to reach an agreement.
Image caption Changes to women's retirement age sparked widespread protests

Labour would allow hundreds of thousands of women born in the 1950s to retire at 64 on a reduced state pension, rather than wait until 66.
Government changes to the retirement age have been "chaotic", shadow work and pensions secretary Debbie Abrahams will tell Labour's conference later.
Many women who expected to retire at 60 must now work several years longer before receiving a state pension.
Ms Abrahams will say her plan would mean pension security for thousands.
Her change would benefit women born between 1954 and 1960.
"This will ensure that those who have suffered the consequences of this government's chaotic mismanagement of the state pension age have the security they need," she will tell the party's conference in Brighton.
"We will continue to work with these women to get justice."
Many women were caught by surprise when the timetable for moving to a later retirement age was accelerated in 2011.
The Waspi - Women Against State Pension Inequality - campaign is pushing for a transitional "bridging pension" to help women whose retirement plans have been thrown into disarray.
Labour has already promised to extend pension credit to the women affected.
In its manifesto for the June general election, the party said it was "exploring options for further transitional protections to ensure that all these women have security and dignity in older age".
Precise financial details were not immediately available, but Ms Abrahams will say the scheme would be "cost-neutral in the long term".
Ms Abrahams will also call for a pause in the roll-out of universal credit, to allay fears that claimants will be plunged into poverty as it is extended across the country over the next 12 months.
She argues that there is evidence of "deepening poverty" as more welfare claimants are transferred to universal credit, which replaces a range of older benefits.
She will cite reports that one in four claims are not paid within six weeks, leading to increased debt and mounting rent arrears.
Image copyright PA Image caption Mike Russell and John Swinney sat down with Damian Green and David Mundell

The Scottish and UK governments have held "constructive" talks over Brexit, but are still a long way from a deal.
Scotland's Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Brexit minister Mike Russell met First Secretary of State Damian Green in London to discuss concerns about the EU Withdrawal Bill.
UK ministers have said it is time to "get serious" about the issues.
The Scottish government is seeking changes to the legislation for taking the UK out of the EU.
It has described the legislation as a "power grab" and has said it will not ask Holyrood to give consent to the bill in its current form.
The UK government has insisted that Holyrood will see "significant" new powers devolved after Brexit.
After an hour of talks in London, both sides said the meeting had been "constructive" but conceded there is still a long way to go before any deal can be reached.
Further negotiations are planned.
The dispute stems from what happens to powers which are currently not reserved to the UK government, but which are exercised from Brussels.
UK ministers want them to go to Westminster in the first instance, before some are incorporated into UK-wide frameworks and others are sent on to the devolved administrations.
Both the Welsh and Scottish governments say this plan would undermine the founding principle of devolution, that any powers which are not specifically reserved to Westminster should be devolved.
They do not oppose UK-wide frameworks, which UK ministers say are necessary to prevent trade barriers developing within the internal UK market, but say they want them agreed jointly.
The Scottish government has also been pushing for single market membership to be retained, and wants the country to remain in the European customs union.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The UK and Scottish governments have been locked in a dispute over the EU Withdrawal Bill

Following the meeting, Mr Swinney said it had been a "useful opportunity for an exchange of views", but said there was still some way to go towards a deal.
He said: "The discussions were constructive but we remain absolutely clear that, as things stand, we will not recommend to the Scottish Parliament that it gives its consent to the EU Withdrawal Bill.
"We made clear, we are not opposed in principle to UK-wide frameworks in certain areas - but this must be on the basis of agreement among equals, not imposed by Westminster.
"The bill as currently drafted is impractical and unworkable.
It is a blatant power grab which would take existing competence over a wide range of devolved policy areas, including aspects of topics like agriculture and fishing, away from Holyrood, giving them instead to Westminster and Whitehall.
"That means that unless there are serious and significant changes to the proposed legislation, we will not recommend that the Scottish Parliament give consent to the bill."
What is the repeal bill?
Formally known as the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill, the draft legislation is a key plank of the government's Brexit strategy

The first line of the bill says the European Communities Act 1972, which took Britain into the EU, will be "repealed on exit day"

This will end the supremacy of EU law and stop the flow of new regulations from Brussels

But all existing laws derived from the EU will continue to be in force - they can be changed or scrapped by further legislation

The bill does not detail policies line-by-line but transfers all regulations into domestic law

It gives the UK two years after Brexit to correct any "deficiencies" arising from the transfer

Mr Green said he was "cautiously optimistic" a way forward could be agreed.
He said: "I said that it was time for the talks to get serious and today they have got serious.
"We had a positive and constructive meeting and we are now starting to get into the nitty-gritty of the detail of how we make sure Brexit works for all parts of the UK.
"We are in agreement that we do not want to damage the UK internal market that is so important to Scottish businesses and their customers.
"The key point is that we want to bring back these powers from the EU in a way that protects the UK market and also preserves the spirit and letter of the devolution settlement."
Image copyright Stefan Rousseau Image caption London Mayor Sadiq Khan chairs Transport for London

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has asked the city's transport regulator to meet Uber's boss after the firm apologised for the "mistakes" it has made.
Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi issued the apology after the taxi-hailing firm lost its London licence.
Mr Khosrowshahi said in an open letter that Uber would appeal against the city's decision, but accepted the company "must change".
On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) denied Uber a new licence to operate.
Uber has said it wants to meet TfL to discuss the regulator's concerns over public safety and security.
The London mayor welcomed Mr Khosrowshahi's apology, saying: "Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
In deciding not to renew Uber's licence beyond the end of September, TfL cited concerns about the firm's treatment of criminal offences, medical certificates, and drivers' background checks.
When asked about a possible meeting, a spokesman for TfL said: "We are always available and happy to meet at any time."
Uber says it has followed the regulator's rules and works closely with the Metropolitan Police.
The firm, which is used by an estimated 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London, also says it will continue operating while its appeal is heard.
Mr Khosrowshahi, who took over at the firm less than a month ago, wrote on Monday: "While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dara Khosrowshahi took over as Uber boss last month after Travis Kalanick resigned

In a letter addressed to Londoners, the new Uber boss said the firm "won't be perfect, but we will listen to you".
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made," Mr Khosrowshahi said.
Earlier, the mayor of London accused Uber of putting "unfair pressure" on TfL, with an "army" of PR experts and lawyers.
Mr Khan, who is also chairman of TfL, told the BBC: "What you can't do is have a situation where unfair pressure is brought on a quasi-judicial body, where there are officials working incredibly hard.
"I appreciate Uber has an army of PR experts, I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers - they've also made aggressive threats about taking us to court."
Uber-TfL talks

When asked if he would meet Uber personally, the mayor said it would be "improper for politicians to interfere with a quasi-judicial matter".
The mayor's office said Mr Khan would not be directly involved in discussions or meetings with Uber if they took place.
While Mr Khan chairs the TfL board, according to the organisation he was not involved in the process of deciding whether to issue Uber with a licence.
That is handled by TfL's taxi and private hire department.
Uber is keen to hold talks with officials from that department "as soon as possible", Fred Jones, a senior executive with Uber in the UK, told the BBC's Today Programme.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition to keep Uber operating

Mr Jones said that Uber was "not clear" about the issues raised by TfL when it denied the company a licence.
One of the points raised by TfL was Uber's "approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained" for its drivers.
That part of the process was not even handled by Uber, said Mr Jones.
Instead, the drivers organised their own DBS check and took that paperwork to TfL.
TfL then reviews that application before giving the driver a licence allowing them to drive for Uber.
TfL would not elaborate further on its issue with the way in which Uber organises DBS checks, because that would be likely to come up when Uber appealed against the decision.
It would only repeat that it was Uber's "approach" to DBS checks that was the problem.
More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Labour leader told Andrew Marr he supported workers asking for a decent public sector pay rise

Jeremy Corbyn has promised to listen to Labour members' calls to keep the UK in the EU single market - but warned it could hamper the government's ability to protect jobs and invest in industry.
The Labour leader said EU restrictions on state aid and pressure to privatise sectors like rail could cause problems.
He also predicted "a lot" of people would continue to come from the EU to work in the UK after Brexit.
Mr Corbyn was speaking on day one of the Labour conference in Brighton.
Boosted by Labour's better-than-forecast general election result in June, he told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show he wanted 10 years in office to implement Labour's agenda, saying at least two electoral terms would be needed to address challenges on housebuilding and inequality.
More than 40 senior party figures signed an open letter to the Observer urging Mr Corbyn to commit to remaining in the European single market and customs union after Brexit.
But delegates in Brighton have rejected demands from a number of constituencies for a vote on single market membership during the conference.
BBC political correspondent Iain Watson said that, in practice, it means there will be no vote on one of the most contentious issues in the party.
Labour has already said it would keep the UK in both agreements during a transitional period.
Theresa May has suggested a two-year timeframe for a transition period, but Mr Corbyn said Labour's version would last "as long as necessary".
It is "impossible" to say at this stage how long it would be, he argued.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Pro-EU protesters marched in Brighton as the Labour conference got under way

Asked about his plans beyond this period, Mr Corbyn said the "important priority" was seeking tariff-free trade access to the EU's markets, and that it was necessary to "look very carefully" at the terms of any trade deal to avoid restrictions on state aid, citing the UK's steel industry as an example.
"We need to be quite careful about the powers that we need as national governments," he said.
Mr Corbyn wants to return a number of key industries, including the railways, to public ownership, but says EU competition laws present significant obstacles to that.
One of the signatories to the letter, former minister Ben Bradshaw, told BBC News remaining in the market was "the only place we can sensibly be if we want to save the economy, end austerity and pursue the sort of vision of Britain that Jeremy Corbyn says he wants".
The customs union is the EU's tariff-free trading area, which imposes the same taxes on imports from certain countries outside the union.
The single market also includes the free movement of goods, services, capital and people.
Speaking at the Labour conference, Stephen Kinsella, a lawyer specialising in EU law, said he was "puzzled and slightly troubled" by Mr Corbyn's comments about state aid.
"I think what we see in the UK is too often government refers to EU law as an excuse, as a reason for not investing.
But it could do so, and it could do so within the law," said Mr Kinsella, who is a Labour Party member.
'Clean break'

The letter urging long-term commitment to the single market and customs union, co-ordinated by the Open Britain campaign, was signed by both Blairite and left-wing MPs, along with some prominent trade union leaders.
It said: "The supposed benefits of a clean break with the EU are a fantasy.
"The economic impact of leaving the single market would hit the most vulnerable in our society hardest."
Image copyright PA

Mr Corbyn is also facing calls to maintain the free movement of EU workers after Brexit from some Labour members, despite this being ruled out in Labour's general election manifesto.
"Manifestos evolve and change," MP Clive Lewis, one of those pushing for the matter to be debated at conference, told the Sunday Politics.
But fellow Labour MP Caroline Flint said she did not think maintaining the current arrangements "would be acceptable to British people".
Asked about free movement, Mr Corbyn said he understood "the importance of workers moving from one place to the other", but some employers had "grotesquely exploited" the system to pay EU workers very low wages.
"That has to stop.
But we have to recognise that in the future we're going to need people to work in Europe, and people from Europe are going to need to work here.
There's going to be a lot of movement."
McCluskey letter

In his Marr interview, Mr Corbyn also promised an end to the public sector pay cap.
He would not commit to the 5% increase called for by some, but promised workers a rise in line with inflation - currently 2.9% - in addition to recognition of the "sacrifice" they had made in recent years.
The Labour leader side-stepped questions about whether he would support illegal strike action by public sector workers against the cap, as backed by his ally, Unite leader Len McCluskey.
A new law requires a 50% turnout for successful strike ballots, but Unite is calling for co-ordinated action across sectors regardless of the threshold reached.
Repeatedly pressed on whether he would back unions defying the law, Mr Corbyn said: "I will be with those workers demanding a decent pay rise."
But speaking on Sky News, Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson said the party would not back unions in such circumstances.
"I have actually received a letter from Len McCluskey this week where he says he accepts Labour MPs aren't going to support calls for illegal strike action," he said.
Mr McCluskey confirmed that was the case, saying he did not expect support from the party's leadership or any of its MPs.
"I know that they are opposed to the current law and they will do all that they can inside Parliament to change this law," he told ITV's Peston on Sunday.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Police force to appoint commander in direct entry scheme

"Oh mum you look like a cop!"
said Maggie Blyth's daughter, seeing her in uniform for the first time.
But unlike many new cops, Maggie is not about to begin years of grinding out beat shifts as a constable.
She is getting ready to command more than a hundred police officers and staff.
The BBC's Daily Politics was given exclusive access to a new recruit becoming part of one of the most controversial reforms in the history of policing.
After just over a year's training, Maggie Blyth is to become Portsmouth District Commander, Hampshire's first Direct Entry superintendent.
She previously had a 30-year career in child protection.
"One colleague described it as a bit of a handbrake turn," Maggie tells me.
"She said, you've got retirement coming up, couldn't you just settle into those plans?
But I was looking for another challenge, I think I had something to offer."
'Much to be gained'

The government's Direct Entry scheme allows talented civilians to join the police in senior roles.
It breaks a 180-year tradition of officers with "mud on their boots" gradually rising through police ranks.
Maggie addresses this head on: "Before I joined, many of the questions I asked of colleagues in policing and elsewhere, were around credibility."
"I won't have some of the specialist skills of someone who has walked the beat.
What I do bring is a range of other skills and experiences that I think compliment where UK policing is going."
During her career Maggie Blyth dealt with some of the most challenging child protection issues facing authorities.
In Oxford, she chaired the safeguarding children board which made headlines after revealing that 300 children were believed to have been sexually exploited in the city over a number of years, by gangs of mostly Asian men.
Similar cases in Rotherham, Newcastle, and Rochdale showed vulnerable youngsters had been failed by the authorities.
Image caption Maggie Blyth became a superintendent after 30 years in child protection

"Policing is really changing," Maggie says.
"I think there has to be a much better join up between the different NHS health organisations, between local government and policing to find a joint solution to some of these continuing issues facing our communities."
The College of Policing received more than 2,000 applications for this year's Direct Entry scheme.
Recruits have come from banking, Army, and Home Office backgrounds - to name a few.
But not all police forces are receptive.
Only nine forces are looking to take on new Direct Entry recruits in 2017.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd believes there is "much to be gained" from bringing outside talent into policing.
She pointed out in a speech to the National Police Chief's Council last year that there were six people who passed the Direct Entry superintendent assessment who were not offered posts, saying: "That is policing's loss."
'Split second' decisions

Perhaps unsurprisingly from within an institution with a culture of discipline and earning one's rank, there have been concerns.
John Apter from the Hampshire Police Federation told the BBC Daily Politics Programme: "Whilst the Direct Entry recruits are highly motivated and very gifted individuals, they don't really have the concept of policing to fall back on.
"You get the knowledge, and the understanding of policing by walking in the same shoes as those police officers have done"

He believes it could even prove dangerous.
While superintendents take on a strategic, managerial role, John Apter says inspector level recruits could be left particularly exposed, because they must make critical operational decisions under pressure.
"At 3am on a Saturday morning, whether that's a firearms incident, whether it's a hostage type situation, or a large scale public order incident, you don't have a bank of experts on hand to give you advice."
"You have to make those decisions in a split second.
You have to rely on your experience.
I have serious concerns that that will be a problem."
"Direct Entry needs to be evaluated.
It's costing a fortune.
Is it good value for money?
I'm not convinced it is."
Portsmouth presents a wide range of policing challenges.
From alcohol-fuelled violence, to previous problems with radicalisation and some racial tensions, the city is a busy patch.
Maggie Blyth has been completing a series of placements with front-line officers, acting as a sergeant and inspector, making arrests and attending a variety of operations such as drugs raids.
While filming we accompany her to a tower block to follow up on a neighbourhood dispute.
She has been under continuous assessment and will have to sit final exams before becoming Portsmouth's district commander for real.
Respect

I ask her whether she really thinks she has been able to cram in all the knowledge and experience she'll need, in just a year?
"One of the things said to me," Maggie explains, "is that you're already 80% a superintendent in terms of the leadership skills you've brought from elsewhere, 20% is in-depth operational policing knowledge and understanding."
"This last year has equipped me with detailed knowledge of what it's like to be policing in Portsmouth and across Hampshire from a range of specialist aspects of policing.
I think in terms of the advice and support I will also have from colleagues, that equips me well."
So what about officers under her?
Will she have their respect?
Some may have been waiting years themselves for promotion.
"You'd have to ask them," Maggie says.
"I've had a very strong welcome.
Peers have said to me phone any time, even if it's 4am in the morning.
"I'm sure, quite rightly, there will be questions asked about new ways of entry into policing and how effective that is.
"My own personal view is that having different routes into policing is positive.
We should be diverse"

Changing long-held traditions in policing was always going to be tough.
Many have doubts about Direct Entry, and Maggie Blyth knows an excellent track record from her previous career can only get her so far.
She will need to prove her worth.
But an officer who accompanies us, confides in me off camera, saying: "Everyone wants her to succeed.
Whatever people say about it beforehand, once someone is in there with you, you want them to succeed.
That is policing.
We're a team."
Image copyright Getty Images

The 2017 general election was the moment when the internet finally delivered on its long-awaited promise of having a big effect, both on how individual people voted and the overall outcome of the election.
A flood of young voters, many of whom had relatively low levels of political knowledge, used the internet to get news about the general election.
This was crucial for boosting support for Labour and Jeremy Corbyn, according to new research on the dynamics of the 2017 vote.
In recent years, there has been talk about the power of the internet to affect elections.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, some pointed to a growth of pro-Labour websites and online forums as a potentially powerful weapon in Labour's arsenal.
Our study is one of the first to document how this online activity really did help Jeremy Corbyn and his party.
We've found that those who used the internet to get news about the general election were far more likely to have voted Labour.
And we observed that those who used the internet less often to gather political news and information were much more likely to vote Conservative.
This relationship is true for the entire electorate and across all age groups.
And it continues to have a strong and positive effect on how people voted, even after we take into account a whole range of factors including age, gender, social class, party identification, how people voted in the referendum and levels of education.
Overall, among all respondents, our research suggests that 16% used the internet "a great deal" to get information about the election, 23% used it "a fair amount", 23% "not very much" and 38% "not at all" or said they did not know.
However, those who use the internet more often were significantly more likely to vote Labour.
Sixty-one per cent of those who used the internet "a great deal" to gather news about the general election opted for Labour, compared with only 21% who voted Conservative.
Conversely, 56% who said they used the internet "not at all" voted Conservative, while 30% opted for Labour.
How much people use the internet also correlates with voting patterns among older people.
Again, those who said they use the internet a great deal were strongly pro-Labour and pro-Jeremy Corbyn.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The study found that Labour's vote was boosted by young people who followed the election online

These effects involve a combination of two factors: "mobilisation" (things that influence people to turn out and vote) and "persuasion" (things that influence their choice of party).
Turnout among people aged 18-29 was up by an estimated 19% on the previous general election in 2015.
Our data shows that both the decision to vote and the choices these young people made at the polls were associated with the volume of news about the election that they consumed online.
Another effect that we find relates to how knowledgeable people are about politics.
In our surveys, we tested people's political knowledge by asking if eight randomly selected statements were true or false and then counted the number of correct answers.
The statements included assertions like: "The minimum voting age for UK general elections is now 16 years of age," and "The chancellor of the Exchequer is responsible for setting interest rates in the UK."
Though internet usage and political knowledge are only slightly linked, it is clear that, after rigorous statistical tests, how knowledgeable people are about politics had significant effects on how they voted.
If survey respondents were frequent internet users but did not know much about politics they tended to vote Labour.
In contrast, if they weren't internet savvy but knew a fair bit about politics, they tended to vote Conservative.
These effects held across all age groups for both Labour and the Conservatives, with the exception of pensioners in the case of the Tories.
This means that those effects weren't caused by the age of the respondent, which at first sight is the obvious explanation for differences in internet usage among the voters.
Put simply, political knowledge continues to have a strong effect on Labour and Conservative voting even after we take statistical account of all of "the usual suspects" that are used to explain voting - such as social class, age, gender income, people's "left-right" placement and how they voted in the 2016 referendum.
The effects of internet usage and political knowledge work strongly through voters' images of the party leaders.
Even after we take account of a whole host of other things, like age and income, people with low political knowledge who used the internet to get their election news tended to like Jeremy Corbyn and dislike Theresa May.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May scored higher than Jeremy Corbyn among those who did not use the internet

For example, among those who said they used the internet "a great deal", the average score for Jeremy Corbyn on a 0 ("really dislike") to 10 ("really like") scale is 6.4, whereas among those who said they did not use the internet at all, his average score is much lower, only 3.4.
The pattern for Theresa May is the opposite: her average score among those who used the internet a great deal is 2.9, whereas among those who did not use the net, her average is considerably higher, at 5.3.
For Jeremy Corbyn, political knowledge, the survey suggests, has a negative effect on feelings about the Labour leader while internet usage has a positive effect.
For Theresa May, political knowledge has a positive effect on feelings about the Conservative Party leader while internet usage has a negative effect.
In contrast, people with high political knowledge who did not use the internet for general election news liked Mrs May and disliked Mr Corbyn.
About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from experts working for outside organisations.
Harold Clarke is Ashbel Smith professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Matthew Goodwin is professor of political science at the University of Kent, Canterbury, Paul Whiteley is a professor of government at the University of Essex and Marianne Stewart is a professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Discover more about the methodology they used here.
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has used a speech in Florence to set out the UK's position on how to move Brexit talks forward.
With further negotiations planned next week, what did her speech tell us about the sort of Brexit deal we might end up with?
Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris has been scanning the speech.
Future of the EU

What's the significance?
It's worth noting that a lot of Brexit supporters in the UK jumped on Jean-Claude Juncker's State of the European Union speech last week - in which he set out an ambitious agenda of greater integration - as an example of why they wanted to leave in the first place.
The PM picked up on this - we're getting out of your way while you move in a different direction that we've never felt entirely comfortable with.
That's good for both of us she implied.
It slightly ignores the fact that many EU leaders wouldn't agree with Mr Juncker's proposals - but it's a point that will go down well on the Tory backbenches.
Success of Brexit

What's the significance?
The tone matters here.
Urging EU leaders to be creative, ambitious and to share a "profound sense of responsibility to make this change work" is a bit of a departure from the language in her last major speech on Brexit at Lancaster House in London in January.
It contained warnings of "an act of calamitous self-harm" for the countries of Europe if they sought to punish the UK, and the famous assertion that "no deal is better than a bad deal" for Britain.
The rest of the EU will take note of this more collaborative appeal but will also be watching to see whether the tone changes again in the prime minister's speech to the Conservative party conference next month.
Citizens' rights

What's the significance?
The prime minister is saying she wants to incorporate an agreement on EU citizens' rights into UK law, and she thinks UK courts should be able to "take into account" the judgements of the European Court of Justice.
It's a real guarantee, she says: "We want you to stay."
The trouble is that it's not what the EU is demanding.
The chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier insisted in a speech yesterday that the Court of Justice should remain the ultimate guarantor of any agreement.
The big difficulty here is that jurisdiction is a pretty black-and-white issue - there are few grey areas.
As things stand, the UK view is that British courts should have the final say, and the EU sees that as unacceptable.
Trade

What's the significance?
So the Prime Minister has ruled out a European Economic Area-style solution to a future relationship (this would be like Norway - part of the single market but not part of the EU).
Mrs May says it would still be too restrictive for the UK.
And she ruled out an ambitious free trade deal like the one the EU has with Canada - it would take too long and would ignore the fact that we start from a position where all our rules and regulations are the same.
So she wants a unique solution - a new deep and special partnership.
But in this speech she hasn't really given more details of exactly what that solution would be.
Transitional period

What's the significance?
This is important.
It means that during a transition period - the prime minister suggested two years as a possibility - all the rules will remain the same.
That means payments into the EU budget, free movement of people and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice would stay in place.
That's always been the position of the rest of the EU - it now appears that the UK has accepted that there is no way round this.
Mrs May confirmed that there will be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition, but that after Brexit they will be registered as they arrive.
That is something that the UK could already do under current EU rules, but it never has done so.
'Divorce bill'

What's the significance?
The prime minister is trying to reassure other member states that no net contributor will have to pay more, and no net recipient will receive less, during the current seven-year budget period, which runs until the end of 2020.
That suggests that the UK will provide the sum of roughly 20bn euros (18bn) in the two-year transition period that it has now proposed.
What's not yet clear is whether the UK thinks these payments will also cover some of its outstanding debts - debts that the EU insists have to be settled as part of a withdrawal agreement.
The rest of the EU will view the 18bn as payment for the UK being allowed to maintain its current role in the single market.
A lot depends on what exactly Mrs May meant by this key sentence: "The UK will honour commitments made during the period of our membership."
Note she didn't say "all" our commitments.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some critics dismissed Jeremy Corbyn's call for the state to take back control of water, electricity and rail

As Jeremy Corbyn prepares for his first party conference since a stronger than expected general election result, what would his plans for the state to take control of water, electricity and the railways mean for Britain?
Shareholders may not be fully compensated under Labour's nationalisation plans, it is understood.
Investors in companies judged to have behaved poorly since privatisation could lose out.
They will not necessarily receive the full market value of their shareholding.
Labour figures believe Parliament should consider how much companies have invested and how they have managed their assets when it calculates compensation.
English water companies would be a priority for public ownership, and Labour may make investors exchange shares for government debt - or gilts.
Prof David Hall, from Greenwich University, says the nationalisation of the failing bank Northern Rock - and a court case that followed - showed it was "perfectly reasonable" for the government to take ownership of a private company without fully compensating shareholders.
In Northern Rock's case, investors were paid nothing.
During Jeremy Corbyn's first leadership campaign John McDonnell - then Mr Corbyn's campaign agent, now shadow chancellor - warned a Labour government might take back recently privatised companies with reduced compensation or none at all.
Prof Hall says: "Some people think of it as the government just buying things on the stock market.
That's not how public ownership works."
Labour thinks privatisations in the 1980s and 1990s were a bad idea, and that privatised companies give consumers a bad deal.
'Bargain basement prices'

Mariana Mazzucato is the Director of UCL's Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose and a former Labour adviser.
Image copyright Mariana Mazzucato Image caption Prof Mariana Mazzucato warns poorly structured privatisation can sell the public sector short

She doesn't advocate the party's policy, but warns that privatisation without enough conditions attached can see businesses "benefiting massively from publicly created value".
They can get assets at "bargain basement prices," she says, and may not invest further but enjoy short-term profits.
"It ends up in the private sector, having [come] from the public sector, and [the new owner] not having done its part."
Labour says prices would be lower under public ownership because the state can borrow to fund investment more cheaply than private companies.
Disruptive?
Britain would need to borrow tens of billions of pounds to fund nationalisations, but would then hold valuable assets.
Supporters point out water, for example, was never privatised in Scotland and Northern Ireland, and is run by a not-for-profit company in Wales.
There are plenty of examples on the Continent of publicly run utilities.
But the details of Labour's likely plans show how disruptive they could be to some businesses.
Taking control of English water companies would see the state ordering companies whose shares are not listed on the stock exchange - some of whose owners are based abroad - to hand over equity in return for public debt.
Opponents say this would alarm investors, driving them and their money abroad.
With electricity, the party intends to take charge of the companies that run regional power networks by changing their licence terms.
Private companies would be left owning - but no longer controlling - electricity lines and substations.
Rail franchises - the rights to run trains in different parts of the country - would be taken up by the state as they expired.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Economist Sir John Vickers argues neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses

To sceptics and critics, there is a hole at the heart of the plan: any evidence that the state would do a better job than private companies.
Oxford economist and former head of the Office of Fair Trading Sir John Vickers says neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses where consumers can't shop around - such as control of water pipes.
Interference and inefficiency?
Independent regulation can deal with many problems, he says, but adds: "Memories can be short.
The previous era, the nationalised era, was not exactly glorious in terms of efficiency, customer service and investment in these sectors."
Put more robustly - nationalisation's critics think it would see a return to political interference and inefficiency.
Who's right?
There are clues, in not only longstanding public companies but also new ones.
Image copyright Bristol Energy

In Bristol and Nottingham, the city councils own their own energy retail businesses.
Bristol Energy was set up under a previous independent mayor, but the present Labour incumbent Marvin Rees says: "We are the shareholder as the city.
When we make a return, it comes back into the city.
People are buying a product off a company that invests in Bristol."
Public ownership for them means not just the principle of control, but ethical behaviour: advice for customers and seeking out the best deals for people who struggle to heat their homes.
Image copyright Bristol City Council Image caption Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees argues the Bristol Energy model can work

Crucially, if it works, it will be taxpayers, not shareholders, who benefit - if it works.
For now, Bristol Energy is losing money, more than 10m over two years.
The city has given the company loans and guarantees worth 17m.
The company expects to be profitable by 2021.
Plenty of new companies lose money, but when I ask Bristol Energy's managing director, Peter Haigh, how much he expects to have lost by 2021, I don't get an answer.
As with any business, failure is possible, and here taxpayers would bear the cost.
Neither side in this debate can prove by accountancy or precedent that nationalisation would see consumers better or worse off.
One group has been proven wrong though: those who paid the policy little attention when Labour's manifesto leaked before the general election because they thought the party leader was about to lead his party to political annihilation.
Mr Corbyn and Corbynism survived.
The nationalisation debate is back.
Image copyright Getty Images

The idea of a transition period after Brexit is being talked about more and more often.
But there's very little consensus on what it might look like.
Bespoke or off-the-peg?
In the frustratingly fuzzy terminology of Brexit, this tailoring choice, between something made to measure and ready-to-wear, is often used to describe the options for stitching together a relationship between the UK and the EU immediately after Brexit in March 2019.
This is not to be confused with the long-term "deep and special partnership" Theresa May promises.
Rather, it is what the prime minister describes as an "implementation period" but many others call "the transition" - the adjustment phase between Britain leaving the EU and arriving at some future and final destination.
When Mrs May talks about a "smooth" Brexit that avoids a "cliff edge", it is the arrangements for a transition phase she is referring to, covering customs systems, immigration controls, aviation regulation, criminal justice cooperation and more.
But 15 months on from the EU referendum, and with negotiations in Brussels apparently stuck, the UK government is under pressure (not least from business) to spell out what this transition phase might look like - to replace hazy rhetoric with specific proposals.
This is what cabinet ministers have been scrapping about, both in private and public through the summer, and it may be a focus of Theresa May's speech in Florence on Friday.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cabinet ministers have varying ideas on what a "transition phase" might look like

The Article 50 process allows only two years of negotiations to hammer out a withdrawal agreement (the terms of divorce), which should take into account "the framework for [the UK's] future relationship with the union".
With six months already gone, it's clear that neither side believes there's any chance of wrapping up and ratifying a new trade deal in that time.
In fact legally, the EU can conclude a new trade relationship with the UK only after Britain has left.
That's why the government now believes a transition period will be necessary.
It will have to be negotiated with the EU, of course, but what do we know about Theresa May's thinking?
Even though there is no formally stated government position, her ministers were very loquacious on the subject over the summer, and splits have been clear.
On 20 June, the Chancellor, Philip Hammond, pressed the need to negotiate "mutually beneficial transitional arrangements".
A month later, the Trade Secretary, Liam Fox, (a leading Leave campaigner) said any transition period had to end by the date of the next election, due in 2022.
In mid-August, the two cabinet ministers wrote a joint article stating a "time-limited interim period will be important to further our national interest and give business greater certainty - but it cannot be a back door to staying in the EU".
They also said the UK would be outside the customs union during this transition period.
Then on 12 September, Philip Hammond told a House of Lords committee the government was looking for a transition deal that looked "a lot like the status quo".
It's a fair guess that the Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, does not.
His 4,300-word rumination in the Daily Telegraph on Britain's post-Brexit future made no mention of a transitional period.
Speaking afterwards in New York, Mr Johnson said the UK should not make any "extortionate" payments to the EU for access to the single market after Brexit, and insisted any transition period should not be "too long".
The argument goes on, and soon Theresa May will have to choose.
Although the cabinet does seem to broadly agree a transitional period is needed, it is a political minefield for the prime minister.
The government has been adamant that Britain will no longer be a member of the single market on Brexit day, and will leave the customs union.
Instead, it wants continued access to the single market and customs arrangements as frictionless as they are now, while having the freedom to strike trade deals with non-EU countries.
That's the "sweet spot" status quo Philip Hammond has talked about.
The Tories' opponents say this is a fantasy.
Over the summer, the Labour Party arrived at the view that the only way to minimise economic disruption during a transition period was to keep Britain in the single market (through membership of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area) and the customs union.
It is one obvious "off the shelf" option.
But for many Eurosceptic Conservatives, it is a non-starter.
It would mean the continued free movement of people to Britain, a continued role for the European Court of Justice and a hefty price tag.
But Henry Newman, director of the think tank Open Europe, thinks a "pay-to-play" arrangement is what the UK is likely to seek.
"I think the UK is going to have to say it will voluntarily impose ECJ judgements, and voluntarily pay as if we were EU members during that period," Mr Newman says.
Furthermore, putting money on the negotiating table now to pay for a transition deal could be a way for the UK to unblock the stalled talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brexit talks in Brussels are currently focused on UK payments to the EU, rather than trade arrangements

How much?
The figure of 10bn euros a year for three years is often heard around Whitehall.
So long as payments do not continue beyond the transition period, Boris Johnson may be kept on board.
Apart from the cost, the big concern among Brexit-supporting Tories is that a transition deal that looks a lot like the status quo could harden into something permanent.
Prof Kenneth Armstrong is the author of Brexit Time: Leaving the EU - Why, How and When?
He believes that if the UK negotiates its way into the single market, the aim of then negotiating a comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU might be put off indefinitely.
The result?
"A UK that finds itself lost in transition," Prof Armstrong warns.
Complicating matters further for the UK is the fact the EU shows no inclination to sew together a bespoke transitional deal.
The EU's own negotiating mandate is clear that any transitional arrangements must be in the interests of the European Union, "limited in time, and subject to effective enforcement mechanisms".
EU leaders will not want the UK to have the benefits of the economic status quo without the obligations of membership.
"No cherry picking," is the mantra in Brussels.
The remaining 27 members of the EU are (so far) united in aims and tactics.
Even if Theresa May manages to bind her cabinet around a transition position that satisfies all wings of her party, it will still need the consent of the EU.
Negotiations with the EU are likely to move forward only if the UK is much more explicit about the price it is willing to pay and can map out where a transition will eventually lead.
Image copyright Getty Images

Labour's annual conference gets under way in Brighton on Sunday - what could the week hold for the expected thousands of delegates?
Party time

It's going to be noisy, colourful and big - Jeremy Corbyn did better than anyone expected at the general election, gaining an extra 30 MPs, and Brighton is the first chance his followers have had to celebrate that achievement en masse.
Party membership has increased to nearly 600,000, making Labour the biggest political party in Europe.
Mr Corbyn has said he is looking forward to "a brilliant conference, the biggest we've ever held".
But there are still tensions behind the scenes between the newly-dominant Corbynite wing of the party and the "moderates", some of whom will, no doubt, insist on ruining the party mood by pointing out that Labour did not actually win the election.
Preparing for an election

Making political predictions is unfashionable so it's anyone's guess whether there'll be another general election sooner rather than later.
With Theresa May trying to manage a minority government, Mr Corbyn is betting on the "sooner" option.
While most MPs headed for the beach, he spent the summer touring marginal constituencies ensuring his troops were on full election footing.
At conference, there'll be a big drive to train new members in Labour's latest campaign technology and techniques.
Instead of sipping warm wine (or Prosecco) at fringe meetings, many delegates will be drilled in "Promote", Labour's new digital marketing tool that spreads tailored messages via Facebook.
Humour

All sounding rather earnest so far?
Take heart from Billy Hayes, former leader of the Communication Workers Union, who told Progress magazine recently that older activists were marvelling at "the invention and humour of newer 21st Century socialists".
All one happy family?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jeremy Corbyn meets fans on his summer tour

Only a year ago, Labour MPs tried to oust Mr Corbyn as party leader.
Thanks to the support of members, he held on.
Since Mr Corbyn's surprise general election success, some MPs seem to have softened their stance, in public at least.
But those recent divisions, coupled with Labour's history of strife, do not simply vanish.
And there are several dimensions.
Grassroots members versus the Parliamentary Labour Party.... Blairites versus the Left...
Momentum versus "moderate" MPs.
But how vitriolic will any disagreements be?
In a pre-conference message Mr Corbyn felt moved to ask delegates to debate in a "comradely, respectful and honest way".
The conference will be a test of his skills in keeping divisions in check.
Brexit

All the recent headlines have been about Conservative splits, but the EU is a divisive issue for Labour too.
In fact, Brexit could cause one of the biggest arguments of all at conference.
Labour is getting the Brexit debate out of the way on Monday morning.
Most Labour MPs are Remainers although there are a handful of Leavers.
And more Brexit

So what exactly is Labour's position?
After a period of constructive ambiguity Labour announced last month it would support full participation in the single market and customs union during a "transitional period".
It was hailed as a dramatic policy shift, positioning Labour as the party of "soft Brexit".
But some Labour MPs believe they should be fighting to stay in the EU or at least to remain in the single market after Brexit.
Some support the idea of a referendum on any Brexit deal.
In short, it's unlikely the party will be able to unite behind one policy.
If delegates don't get enough Brexit on the conference floor there are plenty of fringe meetings, including one called: "What Brexit means for music."
Refreshments are provided, thankfully.
Personality politics

Mr Corbyn may profess to shy away from personality politics but his opponents won't.
The Conservatives are trying to frighten each other (and voters) with warnings about Mr Corbyn.
William Hague said this week that the Tories must unite or "Jeremy Corbyn will be the Prime Minister... completely ruining this country".
And if fear doesn't hit home, there's ridicule.
Sir Vince Cable joked that Mr Corbyn's "acolytes are focused on how to maximise the contradictions of capitalism".
Many people will learn about Mr Corbyn via the media.
It seems journalists may no longer have access to the conference floor, close to the action, and will have to watch from the balcony.
Hell hath no fury like a sketch-writer dumped in the cheap seats.
Corbyn's big speech

Image copyright Getty Images/PA Image caption There have been comparisons between Clement Attlee and Jeremy Corbyn

After a wobbly start, Mr Corbyn has grown in confidence as a political front man, getting to grips with an autocue, something he had never had cause to use during his decades on the back benches, and appearing more poised in media interviews and at the weekly bear-pit of Prime Minister's Questions.
His big speech on Wednesday will give him a chance to reach out beyond the party faithful in the hall into the homes of evening news viewers.
His supporters, such as MP Chris Williamson, say Labour will come to recognise Mr Corbyn as the best leader they've ever had - better than the post-war Labour leader Clement Attlee, another unflashy speaker.
But will his message cut through to sofa-bound floating voters?
Policy debates

Image copyright Reuters

We're told the party's election manifesto "For the Many, Not the Few" will be "fleshed out" at conference.
Key pledges include scrapping tuition fees and renationalising the railways.
On tax, Labour would introduce a 45p rate on salaries of over 80,000 and a 50p one for earnings above 123,000.
There would be more free childcare, guaranteed incomes for pensioners, 10,000 new police officers and 3,000 extra firefighers.
Will Mr Corbyn and his frontbench team - including shadow chancellor John McDonnell (above) - be able to flesh out answers to questions about whether there's enough money to pay for his plans?
Tinkering with the party machine

Labour's ruling body - the National Executive Committee - has agreed to Mr Corbyn's plans to hand more power to party members.
At the moment, they've got six representatives on the 35-member NEC.
Mr Corbyn wants to create three further seats for them.
There's an extra seat for the trade unions too.
The proposals require the approval of conference.
Team Corbyn says they are not technicalities but part of a "democratic revolution".
Critics say they signify Mr Corbyn 'tightening his grip on the party'.
Expect to hear a lot of that phrase.
The 'McDonnell amendment'

Jeremy Corbyn is also keen to reduce the amount of influence MPs have in who leads the party.
The current rule is that you only get on the shortlist if you have the backing of 15% of all Labour MPs and MEPs.
Mr Corbyn got on the shortlist by the skin of his teeth in 2015 thanks to some kindly Labour MPs who thought that including Mr Corbyn would widen the debate (It certainly did that).
In previous leadership elections, other left-wing candidates haven't been so lucky.
John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, failed to get on the shortlist twice.
Mr Corbyn wants to change the rules so that a candidate only needs the support of 10% of MPs.
This has become known as the McDonnell amendment.
It could mean other wannabe leaders don't have to rely on a pity vote from moderates.
Who gets to speak from the main stage?
Image copyright Getty Images

In recent years Labour conferences have often been a beauty parade of the party's big names giving set piece speeches in the main hall.
Momentum - Jeremy Corbyn's support group - and others on the left say they want to open it up to "ordinary" party members, back to the pre-New Labour days of conference debating and deciding on party policy.
Decisions about who gets to speak and what is debated are made by the Conference Arrangements Committee and Mr Corbyn apparently wants shorter and fewer set piece speeches.
There had been specualtion that London mayor Sadiq Khan and the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham would not get speaking slots, as "punishment" for their past criticisms of the leader, but The Guardian says Mr Khan will get to speak after the Conference Arrangements Committee "managed to secure him a slot".
But all these decisions could be easily be changed, right up to the last minute.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Nigel Mansell, Nigel Kennedy and Nigel Farage - the last of a dying breed?
Celebrities and sports stars are often credited with influencing parents' choice of baby names - but it seems that politicians rarely have the same effect.
He was barely off the television in 2016 - but in the year of his greatest political triumph, it now seems there was no surge in people wanting to name their baby after Nigel Farage.
Nigel as a baby name has been teetering on the brink of extinction in England and Wales for several years and has now all but disappeared, according to the latest Office for National Statistics figures.
At most there were two Nigels born in 2016 - the ONS doesn't keep the data to tell us whether it was two, one or zero - but we can says for sure that more people in England and Wales named their child Elvis - three - than Nigel last year.
It seems unlikely to be anything personal, or to do with Brexit - there was an increase to 39 in the number of Borises, after all - but instead must just be another casualty of the mysterious forces of fashion that dictate baby names in Britain.
Where are all the Kevins, Trevors, Sharons, Doreens or, for that matter, Brians now?
Why are names like Oliver, William, Olivia and Emily so popular?
Peak Nigel occurred in 1963 - the year before the former UKIP leader was born - when 5,529 babies were given the name.
Like Norman (14 babies in 2016), Clive (3), Trevor (6) and other popular baby boy names of the mid-20th Century, it has slipped steadily from use, and may have to wait a decade or two more for its inevitable revival - when it is no longer seen as a middle-aged chap's name.
If it's any consolation, its decline was not as steep as that experienced by some 1970s favourites.
The first Darren was elected to the House of Commons this year - Labour's Darren Jones.
He might well be the last, with just 55 Darrens registered last year.
Image copyright UK Parliament Image caption The first Darren in Parliament - and the last?
Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
How popular is my name?
Search for your name Boys Girls

You can tell a lot about a politician or a public figure from their first name.
Some are blessed with neutral-sounding names that can be easily adapted to any circumstance; others are not so lucky.
Tony Blair - who has had children named after him in Kosovo and Sierra Leone (we're not sure about Iraq) in honour of his military interventions in those countries - was rarely Anthony, unless he was appearing as a barrister.
David "call me Dave" Cameron was another prime minister with a classless moniker, unlike his posher-sounding Chancellor Gideon (39 babies in 2016), who changed his name to the ever-popular George (5,236) as a teenager.
Image copyright Getty Images

The current crop of party leaders are blessed with solid but rather unfashionable first names, befitting their age and background.
Theresa is on the slide from an already low base - 19 babies shared their name with the prime minister last year, compared with 34 two decade ago - and Jeremy hardly fared better in 2016, with 54 newborn boys sharing the Labour leader's name, compared with 108 in 1996.
Corbyn, though, is on the up as a first name - 18 in 2016 compared with less than three in 1996.
There were slightly more baby Vinces (14) than Lib Dem MPs.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd fares a lot better - there were 1,066 baby Ambers last year.
But although Brits have long named their children after film stars and other celebrities - with the new Star Wars film apparently inspiring some choices in 2016 - politicians have rarely been a source of inspiration.
Few named their children after Winston Churchill in the 1940s, although the name was popular in the Commonwealth.
But one political name has undergone something of a revival in recent years, with 26 children beginning their journey in life last year as Enoch - up from none two decades earlier.
It is not known how many - if any - named their offspring after controversial "rivers of blood" MP Enoch Powell, however.
Image caption Shadow chancellor John McDonnell does not have the support of some of his fellow MPs

The Labour leadership don't simply want to be prepared for the possibility of an early election.
With the recent manoeuvrings within government, they think it's increasingly likely.
And there was a danger that next week's Labour conference could have highlighted internal divisions rather than promoted unity.
Due for discussion was the so called "McDonnell amendment".
Opponents of the shadow chancellor named it after him to highlight how someone as unpopular as he is with his fellow MPs could be on a future leadership ballot if only 5% of parliamentarians nominated him.
Currently, the support of 15% of Labour MPs and MEPs is required.
An 'interim' compromise

So Labour's ruling NEC has agreed a compromise.
The threshold to take part in future leadership elections would be reduced - on an "interim" basis - from 15% to 10% of Labour MPs and MEPs.
Opponents of Jeremy Corbyn don't really see this as a compromise at all.
They believe that a candidate as left-wing as Jeremy Corbyn could well be nominated by 10% of the parliamentary party (and opposed by 90% of existing MPs) and win the contest when the left-wing membership gets its say.
But it's unlikely they will have enough votes to defeat this when the final decision is taken at Labour's conference.
Image copyright PA Image caption Jeremy Corbyn has kept his party on an election footing

Some on the left, however, including leading lights in Momentum, the group that formed out of the first Jeremy Corbyn leadership campaign, see this as too much of a compromise.
They think the left should take an historic opportunity to entrench its power.
But the party leader is moving rather more cautiously.
So what we will see are attempts to tip the balance of power in the party machine more in his favour, without driving critics out.
The make-up of the ruling NEC will be altered, with three more members elected by the largely Corbyn-supporting grassroots.
However, as a sop to opponents, a new union place on the NEC is likely to go to Usdaw - which didn't back his leadership.
Long grass

The more controversial reforms will be "long grassed" until next year as part of a wider review of the party's rules and structures.
Jeremy Corbyn himself will present its remit to the NEC on Tuesday and propose that the former MP Katy Clark - firmly on the party's left but liked and respected more widely - will be in charge of the process.
However, I have been sent the terms of reference for the review, and understand that one of the totems of the left - mandatory reselection - won't be part of its remit.
Image caption The terms of reference of the review will not include mandatory reselection

For many years those who have wanted to see more power in the hands of left-wing members have argued that sitting MPs should have to - in effect - apply for their own job between each election.
They will be disappointed that Jeremy Corbyn doesn't appear to be intent on creating a PLP in his image.
MPs have Theresa May to thank for this.
Her apparent vulnerability means that, practically, this wouldn't be a good time for a Labour leader to declare war on his parliamentary party.
But in truth, Jeremy Corbyn also believes the existing system can be used more effectively to unseat unpopular MPs.
Local constituency parties can re-adopt an MP on the nod but they also have the little-used power to ballot all party members in a particular seat on whether to open up the contest to challengers.
Image copyright PA Image caption A return to the Blairite past looks increasingly unlikely

I am told that another demand by the left to water down Tom Watson's power by creating a second deputy leader post won't be explicitly included in the review, but that the process wouldn't preclude this from being discussed.
So don't expect to see revolutionary changes to Labour's structures today.
Instead, there is likely to be another incremental shift in the balance of power away from MPs and towards both the party leadership and the more left-wing membership.
The changes wouldn't make a return to the Blairite past impossible - but it would be increasingly unlikely.
Richard Angell, the director of Progress - which calls itself Labour's "centrist pressure group" and is seen within the party as a Blairite outfit - is not impressed.
"We are now in a permanent campaign to undermine the role of MPs, marginalise their voice and get them to acquiesce," he says.
"Never before has a review of this kind been conducted from behind the closed doors of the leader's office."
Image copyright PA Image caption One of the party's former leaders wants to see "dangerous ideas" to the fore

It is more than two years since their much-criticised alliance with the Conservatives came to an end.
But there are those who worry the Liberal Democrats are still in something of a post-coalition haze, to coin a phrase having "lost a (ministerial) empire but not yet found a role".
The Brexit vote has, of course, given the party fresh impetus and, with membership numbers rising above 100,000, there is no shortage of new blood at this conference.
Tim Farron's speech - a very personal reflection on how the Lib Dems clawed their way back from the brink of extinction in 2015 under his leadership - was meant to show this is a party with plenty of life in it.
While it would be unusual to expect new policies so soon after an election and with a new leader feeling his way, the conference, so far, has hardly been teeming with new ideas, a state of affairs which led one ex-leader to bemoan the shortage of new thinking and the ceding of big ideas to the left and right of the political spectrum.
Paddy Ashdown's critique of the party in the run-up to the conference and appeal for a "ferment of debate" may have touched a nerve, as it was designed to do, but there are many activists who broadly agree with him.
"We made compromises and we became compromised," says Graham Neale, chair of the Green Liberal Democrats, of his party's five years in government.
"15 years ago we were seen as the green party and synonymous with that.
Since coalition we seem to have lost our way."
Others are more forgiving of the sacrifices the party had to make in government, when it was hugely outnumbered but still often managed to punch above its weight, and believe its leaders have learnt lessons.
Mick Clark, a member from Yeovil, says one of the party's abiding strengths is its willingness to look itself in the mirror.
"Looking at the coalition era, there were positives and negatives.
Any party that does not learn from its own mistakes and those of others is deemed to failure."
'Bold centrism'

He believes it would be a mistake for the Lib Dems to now follow the Conservatives and Labour down the route of what he describes as "emotionally-led" politics.
"Everybody loves hope but when it is false hope it is misleading," he says.
"As a party we do need to be bold, to remain true to our beliefs.
To say you are a bold centrist may sound something like an oxymoron, to say the middle ground is an adventurous place but we are the party of common sense policies."
A recurring theme talking to new members, particularly those who previously supported the Tories, is distaste about cuts to welfare budgets in the past two years and a desire for the Lib Dems to push back harder on issues ranging from housing benefit to disability living allowances.
"Liberal values and the way the world is moving require us to take a more radical view," says Michelle Booth, who joined the party last year and wants the leadership to focus on the most vulnerable in society.
Image caption The Lib Dems should be the champions of a zero-carbon Britain, environmentalists argue

"It is all very well saying centrist moderate but to get to where we want to be and where we need to be, we do need to be a bit more radical and stand up for what counts."
The environment, both in terms of promoting clean energy and protecting biodiversity, is another priority for many.
The Green Liberal Democrats are using the conference to launch a fully-costed plan for a zero-carbon Britain by 2050 which they claim goes well beyond what anyone else is envisaging, including the Greens.
"It means we are going to be more than credible on the environment," says Graham Neale.
"We have to be radical and find ideas that we can introduce into the mainstream."
While excited about the pace of technological change in the renewable sector, he is worried about the Lib Dems' continued support for nuclear power, in particular the "flawed" building of a new multi-billion reactor at Hinkley Point.
"It is so difficult to tie us in to a horizon for more than 20 years.
You saw last week that the strike price of wind is falling like a stone.
I can see why we need energy security but things are changing so quickly."
'Open wounds'

Talk to any Lib Dem about the process of revitalisation and it is hard to escape the shadow of student tuition fees and the impact that U-turn had on young voters - who flocked in their droves to Jeremy Corbyn at the election.
One young party member, from Wantage, in Oxfordshire, is hopeful that Labour will eventually let down young voters over Brexit and other issues but he says the party's tuition fees issue does need to be "put to bed".
"There is definitely a need to keep acknowledging that wounds were opened through the decisions at the start of coalition which were politically necessary but were badly handled," he says.
"But it is not a matter of apologising for ever.
Explain and be done and come out with something strong and new."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tim Farron said the party had been vindicated time and time again over the years

It is hoped the emergence of a new, younger generation of MPs at the election, and the return of figures like Jo Swinson will broaden the party's appeal, as will its bottom-up, inclusive tradition of policy-making.
"Even though nationally the party might be struggling, you do see a lot of young people coming to conference because they want to be involved in shaping the offer that the party will make," says one member.
"That is important for young folk.
In this generation that we can all tap on our phones and contribute to thinking, a party which says this is your policy arena, you can get involved is really important.
"It is that next generational message, the idea that we are not going to be fighting for political short-termism which is really special about the Lib Dems."
Image copyright PA

Pants to Brexit was one of the more eye-catching chants - complete with props to hand - on show during Sunday's pro-EU march here at the English seaside.
Many of those present were wearing berets sporting the EU flag while one held an image of Edvard Munch's famous picture The Scream with the word Brexit superimposed on it.
Charlotte Morrow, a Lib Dem member from Somerset, said politicians had let the people down and she was alarmed by what she suggested was a "Little England" mentality creeping in over the future of EU citizens living in the UK.
"I don't like the rhetoric.
I don't like what I see.
I don't like that people now feel entitled to say 'leave, you are no longer welcome here.'"
But the mixture of slapstick, cheery defiance and apocalyptic imagery on display at the demo - organised by Dorset for Europe - belied a rather different argument going on nearby about how the UK's exit from the EU can be stopped.
Lib Dem activists overwhelmingly endorsed the leadership's call for the public to have the final say on the final terms of Brexit in the form of what is being dubbed an "exit from Brexit" referendum.
The option of a get-out clause for opponents of Brexit has always been popular among this most pro-European of parties.
It has gained greater traction since the general election result destabilised Theresa May's government and the parliamentary arithmetic of a hung Parliament threw supporters of a soft Brexit a lifeline.
Caron Lindsay, the editor of Lib Dem Voice, tweeted during the debate that it illustrated the unity within the party on opposing Brexit but agreement over the means is slightly less unanimous.
While in a definite minority, those voicing opposition to the idea of another referendum in the conference hall hinted at a wider unease within the party.
Image caption Lib Dems like Karen Lawrance says the party must stick to its beliefs

One member warned it was likely to be "toxic" for the 52% of the electorate who had voted to leave while another described it as akin to "flogging a dead horse" given the widely-held view that Article 50 is an irreversible process.
Mick Taylor, a former general election candidate who spoke against the idea, said afterwards while he acknowledged the "groundswell of opinion" in favour of another referendum and would respect the result, he had reservations.
"The problem with referendums is that they detract from the role of MPs.
The role of MPs is to be elected on behalf of the people they represent, go to Parliament and make decisions.
While the Calderdale activist wants Lib Dems to oppose Brexit "by all democratic means", he said the logic of holding a referendum on the same subject - albeit with a different premise - was principled but could be flawed.
"I don't think it has anything to do with differentiation.
I think it has to do with a genuine belief, which I don't share that having started the process with a plebiscite you need to finish it with one.
"Since Parliament is sovereign, the final decision will ultimately be taken by Parliament anyway.
The only thing that a plebiscite will do is delay a decision being taken."
But elsewhere, Sir Vince Cable's insistence that he is not just seeking a replay of the 2016 vote does find favour.
Image copyright PA Image caption Most Lib Dems applaud Vince Cable for toughening his language on Brexit

"The Lib Dems are united in stopping Brexit, it is just the method being discussed," says Karen Lawrence, from Worcester, who took part in the march.
While she is clear another a referendum won't settle the issue - "I think the country is apart on this issue and will be apart for years and years" - she feels it is an example of the radicalism ex-leader Lord Ashdown has called for in the wake of the underwhelming general election result.
"It is not a second referendum.
It is the first referendum on what the deal actually is," she insists.
"We have to stand by what we believe in.
We are not about doing what is popular for the whole country but do what is right as far as we are concerned."
For many, including Charlotte Morrow, a second referendum is an opportunity to right a wrong and allow 16 and 17-year olds, as well as EU citizens in the UK and all British expats on the continent, to have their say.
"If I thought it (the 2016 referendum) was fair and everyone here thought it was fair, they would be sat at home having their roast dinner today."
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince Cable's problem is crystallised at Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons.
He doesn't get much of a look-in.
Theresa and Jeremy have crossed swords, senior backbenchers on the government and opposition sides have spoken, the SNP's Ian Blackford has had his two questions, and then finally, as the session extends well beyond its once-normal half hour, with MPs drifting from the chambers to bag an early place in the canteen queue, the leader of the Liberal Democrats is called.
A bully pulpit it's not.
A single question at the fag end of an extended PMQs is not a commanding position from which to address the nation.
But, in parliamentary terms, this is as good as it will get for Sir Vince.
With just 12 MPs, his party is no longer entitled to more than a minimal slot at PMQs, and comes well down the pecking order in all the other parliamentary occasions, too.
Worse, MPs seldom see the need to hang around to listen to what it has to say.
Outside Westminster, the same problem is manifest.
Overshadowed

The start of Liberal Democrats' conference week was overshadowed by Boris Johnson's Brexit eruption.
The end of the week will be dominated by Theresa May setting out her vision of Brexit in Florence.
Sir Vince's speech was even blown off 24 hour news by President Trump's appearance at the UN.
That's showbusiness.
So how does a fourth party leader gain that most precious of political commodities - attention?
His predecessor, Tim Farron, never quite managed it, either in the Commons or outside.
A Lib Dem leader, typically, has to spend the first couple of weeks of a general election campaign introducing themselves to voters, who may not even be aware of their existence.
Mr Farron spent those vital days side-tracked into discussing his evangelical Christian views on gay sex.
After that his moment was lost.
Can I commend to Sir Vince a possibly unwelcome role model: David Owen?
Image copyright house of commons Image caption Former leader Tim Farron never quite won the battle for attention inside or outside Parliament

Having refused to join in the SDP's merger with the Liberals, and more recently having backed Brexit, the Doctor is not remembered with affection in Lib Dem circles, but bear with me.
In the mid-1980s, he kept the SDP, with just six MPs, in the national spotlight by sheer force of personality.
He offered a combination of eye-catching ideas and a shameless "anytime, anyplace anywhere" willingness to appear on the media, plus (and this is critical) he always had something interesting to say.
Sir Vince has many of the ingredients necessary to repeat this performance.
Like Dr Owen, he has few visible means of political support - but he does have a level of public recognition as a former cabinet minister, and from his appearance on Strictly.
More important, he has the credentials to speak on the big issue of the day, and be listened to.
In the 1980s, as the Cold War moved towards its end, Dr Owen could speak about the nuclear balance of terror and relations with the Soviet Union.
Post-referendum, Sir Vince can speak, with the authority of a former business secretary, about the implications for industry of the UK's future relations with the EU.
And more than that, as an ex-member of the coalition cabinet, he knows the key players in the Conservative government and can find the pressure points in their internal debate on Brexit.
The parallels don't end there.
With no internal rivals in his party, Sir Vince has considerable freedom of action - so he has a lot of room to be as pungent and as radical as he wants.
He can be a bruiser.
His wounding zinger to then Prime Minister Gordon Brown, noting his transformation "from Stalin to Mr Bean", was one of those rare parliamentary put-downs that did real damage.
Speeches like this one can matter.
Lib Dem insiders believe Nick Clegg's resignation speech in 2015, with its robust defence of liberalism, helped attract thousands of new members.
They hope that if their new leader finds the right words, that could happen again.
Image caption Sir Vince may not appreciate comparison with Lord Owen

Sir Vince's deadpan Yorkshire delivery is probably better suited to one-liners than 10-pagers, and he did indeed offer some effective-looking one-liners.
His speech also offered policy nuggets to groups of voters such as greens, pensioners and internationalists.
But to reach their target audience, he needs an effective social media presence - so one of his key tasks will be to assemble a team capable of putting his message across online.
Was it wise to revisit the coalition and student debt?
Sir Vince worked hard to exorcise the ghosts of the coalition era in general, and the policy U-turn on student tuition fees in particular, but he was the minister who proposed the coalition's tuition fee increase to the Commons, and reminding people of it may simply bring a fading issue back to mind.
His calculation must be that the Lib Dems' electoral rivals will certainly remember, and are bound to throw tuition fees at him.
Plus, some of the Commons constituencies the Lib Dems hope to gain or regain are university seats - hence the section about his work with the National Union of Students to find a way forward on student finance, and hence his proposal to "support all young people in future with an endowment or learning account, which they can use at any stage in life helping to finance further or higher education, either at the post-18 stage or later in life".
He also toyed with replacing the existing loan scheme with some form of graduate tax.
Strategic gamble

The central theme was his opposition to Brexit.
As the Lib Dem USP, it didn't work - much - at the last election.
But Sir Vince is doubling down and continues to offer voters "an exit from Brexit" via a referendum on the final deal with the EU.
He delighted his conference by describing the Brexiteers as "silly public schoolboys reliving their dormitory pillow fights".
And his money quote - "We will be denounced as traitors and saboteurs... but if the definition of sabotage is fighting to protect British jobs, public services, the environment and civil liberties, then I am a proud saboteur," - positions his party to capitalise if the government (or Labour) stumbles or splits over Brexit.
That is the big strategic judgement, or maybe gamble, in this speech, whatever else it has to say about housing, green issues or President Trump.
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince's signature has appeared on a number of Commons amendments to the EU (Withdrawal) Bill from Conservative Remainers and Labour's active pro-EU faction.
I doubt he anticipates a flock of defections from either side - but he has shown he's willing to co-operate across party lines, and in the long term that may widen cracks in Tory and Labour unity.
But it is also telling that there is not much sign of MPs from elsewhere signing Lib Dem amendments at the moment - and if the truth be told, the diminished strength of the Lib Dems would provide a rather fragile lifeboat for any pro-EU Conservative or Labour MPs.
If there is indeed to be an "anti-Brexit people's liberation front", it is a long way from materialising.
Building on his much-mocked comment that he could yet be prime minister, he ended his speech with the hope that his party could once again challenge for a place in government.
For that to happen he also needs luck.
Consistent success in council elections is all very well, but he really needs a run of by-elections in winnable Commons seats to show that the Orange Army is back in the game.
Image copyright AFP

Liberal Democrats are gathering in Bournemouth for their annual conference.
Here's a guide to the event which runs from Saturday to Tuesday.
Setting the scene...
Think back to 2015 when the Liberal Democrats took a hammering at the general election, punished for going into coalition with the Conservatives.
From 57 MPs, they were reduced to a rump of just eight.
Big names - Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Danny Alexander - were voted out.
The Lib Dems lost their status as the third largest party in the Commons - a role seized by the SNP.
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Ed Davey lost his seat in 2015, but regained it in 2017

After their humiliating defeat the Lib Dems were the butt of jokes, often delivered by the Conservative politicians they'd been partners with for five years.
At conference 2017, the Lib Dems can take some comfort from the fact that the really tough times seem to be behind them.
Things have got better - with membership increasing since the end of the coalition years, a trend that accelerated after last year's EU referendum, thanks to the party's pre-Remain stance.
Women on board

Image copyright PA Image caption Christine Jardine is one of the Lib Dems four female MPs

The Lib Dems got a confidence boost last December when their candidate Sarah Olney won the Richmond Park by election - unseating the Conservative Zac Goldsmith.
Her victory was widely put down to Remain-voting constituents venting their anger over Brexit.
For a party that prides itself on gender equality, it was a source of embarrassment that after the 2015 election the remaining eight Lib Dem MPs were all men.
Thanks to this year's general election, four of their 12 MPs are now women: Wera Hobhouse, Christine Jardine, Layla Moran and Jo Swinson.
With the presence of women MPs on the podium at this year's conference, credibility is restored.
Soul-searching after the snap election

Image copyright AFP Image caption Sarah Olney - who won and lost Richmond Park - is now Sir Vince's chief of staff

It had looked as if the Liberal Democrats might carve out a role as the "go-to" party for the 48% who voted to stay in the EU.
They were understandably optimistic about gaining extra seats at the snap general election in June.
But it did not work out like that.
The Lib Dems only gained four additional seats, taking the number of MPs up to 12.
But their share of the vote actually went down to 7.4% from 7.9% in 2015.
Even the Brexit factor seemed to fade away with Zac Goldsmith winning Richmond Park back from Sarah Olney.
One casualty after the election was Tim Farron, who held his seat as an MP but lost the role of leader he had held since the summer of 2015.
At conference, there will be some soul-searching about how the Lib Dems position themselves.
Having spent five years in national government, it's hard to play the plucky outsider challenging the Establishment.
Time for some big ideas

Image copyright PA Image caption Lord Ashdown has warned members they must "think big" again

Do the Lib Dems really want to be a think-tank for rival parties again?
With British politics looking rather polarised, there might seem to be some empty space in the centre.
Former leader Lord Ashdown thinks it's time for the Lib Dems to produce some more eye-catching policies.
In a pre-conference letter to his party, he told members they were producing "very few new ideas" and must "think big" again.
New leader

Image copyright AFP

The party will be holding this year's conference with a new leader.
Sir Vince was crowned leader in July after no-one else stood for the role.
Aged 74, he brings plenty of experience - from his warnings about risks ahead of the financial crash, to his ministerial jobs in the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition.
And don't forget his appearance on Strictly Come Dancing.
He also showed some nifty footwork to win back the Twickenham seat at this year's election, two years after losing out to a Conservative.
He has appointed Sarah Olney as his chief of staff.
As documented above, she's had a rather lively start to her political career, but as a relatively fresh face might she help with the generating of fresh ideas.
Getting noticed

Image caption There was a time when everyone appeared to agree with a Lib Dem leader

Getting (positive) publicity hasn't been easy for Lib Dem leaders in recent years - but the conference will give Vince Cable a chance to reach out to voters.
He's got a head-start on recent incumbents because quite a few people know who he is.
The challenge for Sir Vince is to stir up some excitement.
Earlier this month he gave a considered speech to the Resolution think-tank on how to reduce inequality.
He called it a "social and economic weakness" in the UK and thinks it's one reason why the UK voted for Brexit.
He promised to make inequality a "theme" of his leadership.
Will he be able to translate that into appealing policies?
But remember when Nick Clegg wowed people at the party leaders' TV debates in 2010?
Sir Vince's speech on the last day of conference (Tuesday) is his big moment.
Will he unveil a dangerous new idea that captures media attention, or have the jokes to cut through on social media?
Brexit, Brexit, Brexit

Image copyright AFP

A big question for the Liberal Democrats is where they stand now on Brexit.
With the wheels for exiting the EU in motion, finding the right stance is trickier than it might appear.
At the general election - when Tim Farron was leader - the party argued for a referendum on any deal reached with the EU - the choice being: accept the deal or stay in the EU.
Vince Cable used to argue against another referendum.
Since becoming leader, he supports it.
Given how divisive Brexit is, the leadership may wish they could put Brexit on the backburner at the conference.
But activists want a bold position and there could be a lively debate on the second day of the conference if a motion to block Brexit altogether gets an airing.
Stephen Crosher is one of the activists moving the motion, which proposes that the Lib Dems urge the government to "reverse the triggering" (to detrigger?)
of Article 50, which set in motion the UK's exit from the EU.
One tactic to avoid attention is to point out other parties' weaknesses.
Sir Vince has tried to capitalise on differences within the Conservative and Labour Party.
At conference, he is likely to continue in this vein, suggesting that the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is, quietly, a hard Brexiteer.
The idea is to try again to lure to the Lib Dems the pro-EU voters who backed Mr Corbyn at the election.
Dissenters

The Lib Dems are not exclusively Hard Remainers so the "reverse Brexit" motion, if debated, would not necessarily get an easy ride.
In a Commons vote in March, the official Lib Dem position was to vote against triggering Article 50.
But two Liberal Democrat MPs - Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland - abstained, arguing that the result of the referendum should be respected.
Brexit in many forms

Brexit will appear at many times and in many guises.
After lunch on Saturday there will be a debate about the impact on public services.
A motion tabled by the Lib Dem peer and former MEP Baroness Ludford accuses the Conservatives and Labour of being committed to a "hard Brexit including abandoning membership of the European Single Market".
It also says that more than half of the 10,000 doctors from European Economic Area countries are "considering leaving the UK" because of Brexit - and that applications from EU nurses to work in the NHS has fallen by 96%.
Whacky ideas

It's traditional to look out for what might seem wide of the mainstream ideas being debated at the Lib Dem conference, especially at fringe meetings.
Watch this space.
In the meantime, delegates can let off steam at the official Lib Dem disco on Saturday night or the "Communi-oke".
Key debates at the Liberal Democrats conference:

Saturday, 16 September

09.00-09.05 Opening of Conference by Baroness Brinton

09.25-10.10 Policy motion: Learning to Communicate in English

14.10-15.25 Policy motion: The Impact of Brexit on Public Services

17.50-18.00 Report: Campaign for Gender Balance

Sunday, 17 September

10.00-10.45 Policy motion: Armed Forces Personnel: Recruitment, Retention and Welfare

10.45-12.30 Consultative session: Europe

14.10-15.10 Question and answer session: Leader Sir Vince Cable

15.30-16.45 Policy motion: Safe Building Standards for all Homes

Monday, 18 September

10.00-11.00 Policy motion: Defeating Terrorism, Protecting Liberties 32

11.00-11.20 Speech: Former leader Tim Farron

14.10-15.10 Policy motion: Employment in the 21st Century

15.30-16.30 Policy motion: Encouraging Companies to be Responsible Corporate Citizens

Tuesday, 19 September

09.00-09.35 Policy motion: European Atomic Energy Community

11.10-11.50 Policy motion: Protecting Small Businesses

12.10-12.50 Policy motion: Gun and Knife Crime

14.10-15.30 Leader's Speech: Sir Vince Cable

Correction 26 September 2017: An earlier version of this story wrongly said that Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland voted for Article 50 being triggered.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Election 2017: Highlights of TV election coverage

An at-a-glance guide to the key points of the UK General Election.
The headlines

The Conservatives have lost their Commons majority - the Tories are now the largest party in a hung Parliament

Theresa May says she will form a government and work with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs, after going to Buckingham Palace to see the Queen.
The PM says she is "sorry" for colleagues who lost their seats.
Jeremy Corbyn says she should quit and Labour wants to attempt a minority government

The Conservatives plus 10 DUP MPs have 328 seats - more than the other parties put together.
A so-called "progressive alliance" between Labour, SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and Greens would have 314.
A majority is 326.
There are 262 seats for Labour - up 30 seats; 35 seats for the SNP, a loss of 21 seats; the Lib Dems are up four to 12 seats; Plaid Cymru on four seats; the Greens on one, and none for UKIP

UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has resigned

In Northern Ireland, the SDLP and the UUP have lost all their Westminster MPs after a night of big gains for the DUP and Sinn Fin

The Lib Dems had a mixed night with some former big figures returning - but ex-leader Nick Clegg losing his seat

Leader Tim Farron called on Theresa May to resign

The SNP remains the largest party in Scotland but the Conservatives have won 12 seats from them so far; Labour have won seven; the Lib Dems three

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP is ready to work with others to try to keep the Conservatives out of government and block their Brexit strategy

There is economic uncertainty reflected in the City

Voter turnout is up by 2% to 69% - the highest since 1997.
The vote share is Conservative 42%, Labour 40%, Lib Dems 7%, UKIP 2% and the Greens 2%.
Labour put in a strong showing in Wales, taking back Gower, Cardiff North and Vale of Clwyd from the Conservatives

Follow the latest news at it happens on our live page

Big scalps

Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'Mara

Former SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.
Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.
Other notable results

For more results, click here

Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
Find your constituency and candidates Enter a postcode or seat name Start typing to search Search for constituencies

What the parties are saying

Speaking outside Number 10, Theresa May said she intended to form a government which could "provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country".
She gave little detail on how the arrangement with the DUP may work.
DUP leader Arlene Foster confirmed she had spoken to Mrs May and they would speak further to "explore how it may be possible to bring stability to this nation at this time of great challenge".
Jeremy Corbyn said: "People have had quite enough of austerity politics" and Mrs May should "go and make way for a government that is truly representative of this country"

Mr Clegg warned of a "grave gulf" between young and old in the UK and said the next Parliament will preside "over a deeply divided and polarised nation"

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "She called this election expecting a coronation, and took each and every one of us for granted in the most cynical way possible."
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Brexit "is in some trouble" if Jeremy Corbyn forms a coalition and he will "have absolutely no choice" but to come back into British politics

SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP has "won the election in Scotland" but she is disappointed to see losses: "We've got some reflection to do."
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson: "Indyref 2 is dead in Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon needs to reflect on that."
"I'm afraid we ran a pretty dreadful campaign," said Conservative Anna Soubry who says the prime minister "needs to consider her position".
"I think it will be difficult for her to survive," DUP leader Arlene Foster on Theresa May.
Social media reaction

The hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority.
More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour.
Read more here

The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.
While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.
Key video clips

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says the UK needs a period of stability

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn: "I'm very, very proud of the campaign my party has run"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Laura Kuenssberg says the result is a "total political disaster for Theresa May"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This is the moment the general election exit poll is announced

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Clegg: 'There's a huge gulf between young and old'

Analysis

BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg:

The conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.
There is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party.
As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ.
But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign.
Read more from Laura

John Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of Strathclyde

This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.
On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office.
While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position.
However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.
BBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed:

When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.
Why would that cause the currency to decline?
Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain.
Read more from Kamal

Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has.
The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable.
Read more from Philip

In pictures

Image copyright AFP Image caption The exit poll projected onto BBC Broadcasting House

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Jeremy Corbyn said he was "humbled" by the size of the vote for him

See more images from the night here

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mrs May said it was now incumbent on the Conservatives to offer "stability"

Image caption Nick Clegg: "Live by the sword, you die by the sword"

Image copyright EPA Image caption Nicola Sturgeon was disappointed by losses but said the SNP remained the biggest party in Scotland
The Conservatives have lost seats in Parliament and no longer enjoy an overall majority, while Labour has exceeded the expectations of pollsters and increased its number of MPs.
But this isn't the whole story...

1.
The Conservatives won 20 seats

Although it was a bad night for Theresa May's party overall, with 33 MPs ejected from Parliament, it actually won seats elsewhere.
The majority of their gains were in Scotland, where the Conservatives performed well against the SNP, unseating the former SNP leader Alex Salmond in Gordon.
The party also took six seats from Labour, and snatched Clacton from UKIP.
2. Who lost seats to Labour?
Labour's six losses were offset by 36 gains - 28 of which were from the Conservatives and two from the Lib Dems - including Nick Clegg's former seat of Sheffield Hallam.
The party also took six Scottish seats from the SNP.
Most of the changes were in Scotland and the north of England

Although the political landscape of Northern Ireland has also shifted dramatically with the UUP and the SDLP losing all of their MPs.
Changed seats All seats Please enable Javascript to view our results map Con

Con Lab

Lab SNP

SNP LD

LD PC

PC UKIP

UKIP Ind

Ind DUP

DUP SDLP

SDLP UUP

UUP SF

SF Green

More maps showing the changes from 2015 to 2017 are here.
The SNP saw some huge majorities disappear

The table below shows the largest majorities in the last general election in 2015 that have been overturned.
Nine of the largest 10 previously belonged to the SNP - a 14,000-vote majority won by the party's former spokesperson on social justice, Eilidh Whiteford, in 2015 has been converted into a 4,000-vote majority for the Conservatives.
Constituency (out of 650 so far) Result 2015 Majority 2017 Majority Banff & Buchan CON GAIN FROM SNP 14339 3693 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill LAB GAIN FROM SNP 11501 1586 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock CON GAIN FROM SNP 11265 2774 Angus CON GAIN FROM SNP 11230 2645 Stirling CON GAIN FROM SNP 10480 148 Ochil & South Perthshire CON GAIN FROM SNP 10168 3359 Rutherglen & Hamilton West LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9975 265 Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9974 259 Midlothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9859 885 Canterbury LAB GAIN FROM CON 9798 187 Oxford West & Abingdon LD GAIN FROM CON 9582 816 Glasgow North East LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9222 242 Moray CON GAIN FROM SNP 9065 4159 Gordon CON GAIN FROM SNP 8687 2607 Battersea LAB GAIN FROM CON 7938 2416 Kensington LAB GAIN FROM CON 7361 20 Aberdeen South CON GAIN FROM SNP 7230 4752 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine CON GAIN FROM SNP 7033 7949 East Lothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 6803 3083 Warwick & Leamington LAB GAIN FROM CON 6606 1206 Reading East LAB GAIN FROM CON 6520 3749 Dumfries & Galloway CON GAIN FROM SNP 6514 5643 Foyle SF GAIN FROM SDLP 6046 169 South Down SF GAIN FROM SDLP 5891 2446 Colne Valley LAB GAIN FROM CON 5378 915 Mansfield CON GAIN FROM LAB 5315 1057 Portsmouth South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5241 1554 Stockton South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5046 888 Bristol North West LAB GAIN FROM CON 4944 4761 High Peak LAB GAIN FROM CON 4894 2322 Stroud LAB GAIN FROM CON 4866 687 Enfield Southgate LAB GAIN FROM CON 4753 4355 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD GAIN FROM SNP 3844 2044 Bath LD GAIN FROM CON 3833 5694 Ipswich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3733 831 Renfrewshire East CON GAIN FROM SNP 3718 4712 Crewe & Nantwich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3620 48 Clacton CON GAIN FROM UKIP 3437 15828 Edinburgh West LD GAIN FROM SNP 3210 2988 Ceredigion PC GAIN FROM LD 3067 104 Keighley LAB GAIN FROM CON 3053 249 Leeds North West LAB GAIN FROM LD 2907 4224 Kingston & Surbiton LD GAIN FROM CON 2834 4124 Warrington South LAB GAIN FROM CON 2750 2549 Copeland CON WIN 2564 1695 Stoke-on-Trent South CON GAIN FROM LAB 2539 663 Sheffield Hallam LAB GAIN FROM LD 2353 2125 Middlesbrough South & Cleveland East CON GAIN FROM LAB 2268 1020 Dunbartonshire East LD GAIN FROM SNP 2167 5339 Cardiff North LAB GAIN FROM CON 2137 4174 Twickenham LD GAIN FROM CON 2017 9762 Walsall North CON GAIN FROM LAB 1937 2601 Peterborough LAB GAIN FROM CON 1925 607 Derbyshire North East CON GAIN FROM LAB 1883 2861 Lincoln LAB GAIN FROM CON 1443 1538 Southport CON GAIN FROM LD 1322 2914 Bedford LAB GAIN FROM CON 1097 789 South Antrim DUP GAIN FROM UUP 949 3208 Belfast South DUP GAIN FROM SDLP 906 1996 Weaver Vale LAB GAIN FROM CON 806 3928 Eastbourne LD GAIN FROM CON 733 1609 Brighton Kemptown LAB GAIN FROM CON 690 9868 Fermanagh & South Tyrone SF GAIN FROM UUP 530 875 Plymouth Sutton & Devonport LAB GAIN FROM CON 523 6807 Bury North LAB GAIN FROM CON 378 4375 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk CON GAIN FROM SNP 328 11060 Vale of Clwyd LAB GAIN FROM CON 237 2379 Croydon Central LAB GAIN FROM CON 165 5652 Derby North LAB GAIN FROM CON 41 2015 Gower LAB GAIN FROM CON 27 3269
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May awaiting her constituency result in the early hours of Friday

The post mortem on how Theresa May managed to lose her majority in Thursday's general election after expecting to secure a landslide victory is well under way.
Here are 10 theories.
First things first.
Did she blow it?
The Conservatives came first in this election with 318 seats, with Labour the next biggest party on 262 seats.
The Conservatives got more votes that anyone else - 42.4% to Labour's 40% - and Theresa May's party got more votes than anyone since the record-breaking total John Major received in 1992.
And yes, that means she got more votes than Tony Blair's New Labour landslide in 1997.
So, you ask, in what sense did she blow it?
Well, she had 331 MPs - more than the 326 needed to have a Commons majority - when she decided to call the election with the aim of increasing her majority.
She also began the campaign with an undisputed opinion-poll lead in double figures and a landslide victory within her grasp.
She ends it having to try to do a deal with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to stay in power, and knowing that, the decision to call a snap election will go down as one of the biggest own goals in British political history.
So how did it come to this?
1) Deciding to call an election

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reaction from Bristol: 'You're joking.
Why does she need to do it?'
Theresa May had been serenely racking up stunning approval ratings and huge opinion-poll leads.
Her constant refrain was "Brexit meant Brexit" and it seemed a serious, tough, honest and non-flashy politician was what the British people wanted.
Her honeymoon period felt like that of another self-consciously unshowy prime minister who came to power without an election - Gordon Brown.
But unlike Mr Brown in 2007, she did not allow speculation about a snap election to run rife only to blow her reputation by deciding not to call one after all.
She ruled out having an election.
And then she changed her mind.
She insisted she was acting in the national interest but others detected baser motives.
Jeremy Corbyn said: "How can any voter trust what the prime minister says?".
Nicola Sturgeon said it was a naked power grab and a bid to crush all opposition.
The public, like Brenda in Bristol, seemed weary of politics and voting.
2) The wrong type of campaign

Image copyright Getty Images

This was Theresa May's election - the Conservatives were some way off in the distance, if they were visible at all, at the start of the campaign.
But was she the right kind of candidate to be placed front and centre like this?
Katie Perrior, Mrs May's former director of communications thinks not.
Writing in the Times, she said: "If you run a presidential-style campaign with a woman who doesn't like media interviews, then you have to accept that it's better to do them and run the risk that they go badly than look like you are running scared.
Furthermore, if you want to brag that your candidate is a bloody difficult woman, then she has to show some empathy to remind people she is human after all."
3) Dodging the TV debates

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Home Secretary Amber Rudd and senior politicians from six other parties took part in the debate.
With huge poll leads at the start of the campaign it was quickly decided that Mrs May would not take part in anything as risky as a TV debate with her main challenger, Jeremy Corbyn, or risk meeting too many members of the public in big rallies.
That decision backfired when Mr Corbyn decided to take part in a seven-way debate with other party leaders - he did not make a big deal of her absence, but everybody else on the stage did.
The Green Party's Caroline Lucas said: "You don't say it's the most important election of our lifetime and not be bothered to show up."
Mrs May might have performed badly in the debate, but she arguably took a far bigger reputational hit by not taking part, as it opened her up to accusations she was running scared, or that she was complacently assuming victory.
4) Underestimating the opposition

Image copyright Reuters

Sporting history is littered with underdogs triumphing because they wanted to win more than their opponents, or put in more effort.
The same sometimes goes for politics.
In this election Mrs May seemed like she would be happy to say "strong and stable" from dawn until the sun set over the fields of wheat she "naughtily" ran through as a child.
There was little in the way of a positive message to entice floating voters.
Her campaign team did not seem able to conceive of the idea that anyone would take Mr Corbyn seriously.
They underestimated how well his anti-austerity message would go over with voters worn out by years of frozen wages and public spending squeezes.
Many commentators, on the left and right, who had written Jeremy Corbyn off as vote-losing liability have had to eat their words since the election.
Just about everyone underestimated his appeal, once he was given a chance to air his views unmediated by a largely hostile press.
5) Manifesto policies

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anna Soubry has given a frank assessment of her party's campaign

The turning point of the campaign, according to insiders, was Theresa May's U-turn on social care.
Team May were apparently so confident of victory that they thought they could tackle the looming problem of social care costs - an issue parties scrapping to win elections have generally shied away from.
But within hours the main thing many people knew about the Conservative programme for government was that it included a "dementia tax" that could lead to more people having to sell their homes to pay for care.
The same went for means-testing the winter fuel allowance and ending the "triple lock" that guarantees a minimum 2.5% increase in the state pension.
Mrs May might have got away with the rapid U-turn on social care - something that is almost unheard of the middle of an election campaign - if she had owned up to it but she continued to insist that nothing had changed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: This is the right way forward

Anna Soubry, an anti-Brexit Tory MP said this was the moment that she lost her "strong and stable" reputation.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested, off the record, that the 2017 manifesto was the worst the party has ever published.
Ms Soubry said it was more a problem of "appalling" presentation - not properly explaining the social care changes, which would actually have benefited many less well-off people - and allowing people to think free school meals for poor children were being axed, when in fact the plan was to end the free lunches for all infants, which benefits the better-off.
6) Not reacting to the Labour surge

Image copyright Reuters

Nick Timothy, pictured, who was forced out as Theresa May's policy adviser after the election result, suggests Team May were not even aware that there was a surge in Labour support as polling day approached.
In his resignation statement, he said this was "because modern campaigning techniques require ever-narrower targeting of specific voters, and we were not talking to the people who decided to vote for Labour".
Instead of pushing their message on the NHS and the energy price cap to get wavering Labour voters on side, they doubled down on what they thought was their strongest suit - Brexit and "strong and stable leadership" in contrast to a "coalition of chaos" under Mr Corbyn.
7) May's personality

Image copyright Getty Images

People knew very little about Theresa May before the campaign started - she had been home secretary for a long time but had not courted publicity like some of her cabinet colleagues.
An introvert, by Westminster standards, who does not like talking about her private feelings, she tended to come across as ill-at-ease on the TV sofa.
Like Hillary Clinton in last year's US elections, she was not a natural on the campaign trail either.
As Daily Mail sketch writer Quentin Letts pointed out at one event, she tended to look a bit miserable, or as he put it, a "glumbucket'.
Mr Corbyn, on the other hand, looked like he was enjoying himself.
At the end of the campaign, Mrs May had to rely on Boris Johnson, a natural political showman, to whip up the crowds.
8) Negativity and the youth vote

Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May spent a lot of time attacking Jeremy Corbyn's credibility and, as Nick Timothy has acknowledged, not enough time setting out her "positive plan for for the future".
There are shades of Clinton here again, who focused heavily on attacking her opponent's fitness for office rather than explaining what she would do with power.
Conservative attacks on Mr Corbyn's anti-terror record will have sounded alarm bells with older readers of Conservative-supporting newspapers.
They may have meant less to anyone under 30, who were more interested in what the Labour leader had to say about their future rather than who he was holding meetings with decades ago.
Labour countered Tory attack ads on Facebook with upbeat messages and celebrity endorsements.
Labour's successful push to get out the youth vote was a decisive factor in some seats, although there is still some debate about the size of the surge in voting among 18 to 24-year-olds.
The Tory campaign was widely criticised for being negative and uninspiring.
9) Fox hunting and 'the same old Tories'

Image copyright EPA Image caption Anti-hunting protesters marched on Downing Street

It may simply have been a repetition of a longstanding Tory policy but Theresa May's vow to hold a free vote on bringing back fox hunting is thought by some to have harmed her efforts to seal the deal with Labour voters flirting with the Conservatives.
It came up a lot on the doorstep, according to some reports, helping to "re-toxify" the Conservative brand among voters in traditional Labour areas, which Mrs May was banking on to win a big majority.
Like the social care U-turn, or the pledge to bring back grammar schools, it may have given anyone flirting with backing the Tories for the first time in their lives a reason not to switch their vote.
10) Events

Theresa May wanted the election to be about Brexit but the terror attacks in Manchester and London changed the course of the campaign.
Suddenly it was all about security and anti-terror policy.
This should have put the former home secretary in a strong position, and her statements on the attacks struck a suitably prime ministerial tone.
Labour's criticism of cuts to police numbers gave them a line of attack against Mrs May - but the pause in campaigning that followed the terrorist incidents resulted in a sombre and strangely off-kilter ending to the election.
Here is a selection of your views:

"Ignoring remain voters - too much focus on "no deal is better than a bad deal" and complaining that Remain voters were "citizens of nowhere" alienated the 48%.
Playing so much to the UKIP vote backfired in many areas of the country.
Evidence for this: the swing to Labour from Tories was much larger in Remain voting areas than Leave voting ones," Sue, York.
"Jeremy Corbyn was reckless and irresponsible in the promises he was making particularly to the youth voters.
Promising to give 'free university' at a cost to the UK of 11.5 Billion a year, is an example of the 'money tree' that pays for all !
Corbyn could afford to be reckless in his election promises because he didn't expect to win or be PM."
Ron, Stoke-on-Trent.
"The Conservatives underestimated the collapse in the number of votes for the UKIP party.
It must have been apparent that these votes would go somewhere and not necessarily all to the Conservative Party.
Clearly some of these went to the Labour Party.
The Labour Party will always have a strong backing in the cities and these extra votes from the UKIP party helped Labour get more seats.
This should have been anticipated and calculated before Mrs May called the election so some of her advisers and backroom staff got it clearly wrong and miscalculated - or was it Mrs May just determined to call the election whatever?," Jeff

"Definitely Fox Hunting swayed me.
I left the Labour Party as a member when JC became leader.
I didn't think he was electable (and he still might not be) and predicted a Labour wipe-out with him at the helm.
But as the election went on I was slowly taken back into the fold by his positive campaign.
I'd always agreed with his policies, just him as a leader I had doubts over.
The more he engaged though the more I cheered, and once the manifestos where published it was game over for the Tories.
But yes, the fox hunting was the initial game changer (as it was announced early on) - and then everything else just fell into place," Ian, Chester.
"I'm surprised that more hasn't been made of the proposed boundary changes, which would have reduced MPs from 650 to 600.
If May had forced these through and then called the election she would have undoubtedly won a majority, as they massively favour the Conservatives.
One report suggested that under the new boundaries Labour could be 10% ahead of the Tories and still not have a majority," Andrew, Loughborough.
"The Tories did not lose their majority over the stance favouring a hard Brexit.
They lost seats because the majority accept that Brexit will happen and all the other issues of economic and social policy were more important issues in the election.
Mrs May needs to ignore the pro Remain Major, Cameron and Clarke who are using the situation to try to reverse their defeat in the Referendum," Ian

"You've laid out some good reasons but as you state, both the Conservative and Labour vote increased...... why?
Because of a huge amount of tactical voting especially driven by social media.
A lot of the "Remainers" had been horrified about the way that she'd embraced a Hard Brexit and even though Labour supported Brexit, they felt that not voting Tory would potentially hinder this outcome.
Labour need to bear this in mind too.
As a lot of people like me "lent" them their vote," Paul, Newcastle-under-Lyme

"Was there any evidence to suggest that tactical voting also played a part in the demise of the Conservative majority?
Were voters were more likely to vote for their second choice party if it meant stopping a Tory candidate from winning their constituency?
Clearly this could have been a case in constituencies where non-contest agreements were forged e.g.
Brighton Pavilion (Caroline Lucas), and in Twickenham where there was an absence of any campaign leaflets from any parties other than Lib Dems and Conservatives," John, London

I am surprised by your list of reasons for the Conservative election results.
For me this is very much about Brexit and Theresa May's stance.
She was a remainer but since being elected has used a rhetoric which concerns much of the UK population.
So this result is a protest against hard Brexit which will damage the UK economy beyond repair.
It is also the young peoples's recognition that their vote matters.
Had they voted in the referendum the result would have been remain, and they are angry and want their voices heard, Louise, Hampshire

"The media, including the BBC, displayed an attitude of sneering contempt towards Jeremy Corbyn ever since he was elected Labour Party leader right up to the recent election campaign.
Even the Guardian only endorsed Corbyn at the last minute, when it sensed which way the tide was running.
This must raise serious questions about how 'free' our media really are, and who plots their editorial course.
Time for another independent enquiry, perhaps?," John, Coventry

"Another nail in the coffin of May's majority is her too-cosy relationship with Trump and particularly her failure to unreservedly condemn him for pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement.
Saying that she was 'disappointed' was nowhere near strong enough," Ron, Cambridgeshire

"It will be a rare day a Conservative calls another election without a 35 point lead in the polls.
No wonder Labour is cambering for another election, Labour would rather enjoy another election in the next six months.
Whereas, as a postman, I would not."
Paul, Lincolnshire

Everyone is tired of austerity, even those who are managing well.
It's interesting how many of the affluent, metropolitan elite voted Labour, even though they were the ones who would be paying the bulk of the extra taxes.
Whether they would have voted the same way if they'd thought he actually stood a chance of winning is a different question.
Paul, London
Autumn sees Britain's political parties gathering by the sea - or in big city conference centres - here's a round-up of this year's, which will be updated as they happen.
Liberal Democrats - 16-19 September in Bournemouth

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Liberal Democrat conference: Sir Vince Cable's full speech

The Liberal Democrats gathered by the seaside having modestly increased their tally of MPs to 12 in the recent general election, following an electoral drubbing in 2015 that left them with just eight.
In his keynote speech to conference, new leader Sir Vince Cable said he could lead the Lib Dems back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
Labour - 24-27 September in Brighton

Image copyright PA

The Labour Party's annual get-together comes after leader Jeremy Corbyn strengthened his position following the general election, having seen off a 2016 leadership challenge from MP Owen Smith.
Despite some, including MPs in his own party, predicting poll disaster for Labour under Mr Corbyn's leadership, the party gained seats and recorded a 40% share of the national vote in June 2017.
Ahead of this year's conference, Labour's National Executive Committee approved changes to the way leaders are elected.
The threshold for nominations to get on a leadership ballot has been lowered from 15% of MPs and MEPs to 10%.
Mr Corbyn did not have the backing of most Labour MPs as he became leader in 2015 but has won two leadership contests by a landslide due to his strong support among party members.
The changes, which now have to be agreed at the party conference, could make it easier to elect a left-wing successor to Mr Corbyn.
Conservatives - 1-4 October in Manchester

Image copyright PA

The Conservatives continue a trend over recent years for urban - as opposed to seaside - conferences with a return to Manchester.
Prime Minister Theresa May took what seemed a reasonably safe gamble when she called an election earlier this year, with her party well ahead of Labour in the opinion polls.
However, while the Conservatives increased their vote share they lost their majority in Parliament, after a much-criticised campaign.
The government now needs the support of Northern Ireland's 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to be sure of winning Commons votes.
Party members will gather with Mrs May in a weakened position and questions over cabinet unity on Brexit - prompted most recently by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - dominating the headlines.
UKIP - 29-30 September in Torquay

Image copyright PA

UKIP members meet for a two-day conference which will see the winner of the party's latest leadership election announced.
UKIP's share of the vote in the general election collapsed to just 1.8%, prompting the resignation of then-leader Paul Nuttall.
Since UK voters backed leaving the EU in a referendum in 2016, the party which focused on getting the UK out of the EU has struggled to broaden its appeal.
Former leader Nigel Farage ruled out a return but 11 candidates are vying for the party's top job.
Green Party - 7-10 October in Harrogate

Image copyright Green Party

The Green Party of England and Wales achieved just a 1.6% share of the vote in the general election, though the party's sole MP, Caroline Lucas, retained her seat in Brighton Pavilion with an increased share of the vote.
Ms Lucas is leader of the party alongside Jonathan Bartley in a job-share arrangement, after the two ran for the leadership on a joint ticket.
According to the party's website, there will be a "co-leaders' speech" to conference.
SNP - 8-10 October in Glasgow

Image copyright AFP

After a stunning general election result in 2015 - when the party won 56 out of 59 Scottish seats - the SNP returned 35 MPs in 2017.
It is still the dominant force in Scottish politics and forms a minority government in the Scottish Parliament - but it lost 12 Commons seats to the Conservatives, six seats to Labour and three to the Lib Dems.
Leader Nicola Sturgeon has called for a second referendum on Scottish independence to be held at the end of the Brexit process, although the date of it has been put back in the wake of the general election.
A majority of Scottish voters backed continuing EU membership in 2016 and Ms Sturgeon has said Brexit would mean Scotland leaving the EU "against our will".
Plaid Cymru - 20-21 October in Caernarfon

Image copyright Plaid Cymru

Plaid Cymru gained a seat in the general election, taking their Commons total to four.
The party has 11 seats in the Welsh Assembly - the same number as the Conservatives but behind Labour.
However, Assembly Member Neil McEvoy has been suspended from the Plaid Cymru group following a row over policy on council house sales.
Plaid backs a move by the Labour Welsh government to stop council house sales - but in a Facebook post, Mr McEvoy said right-to-buy was the "one realistic way" many working-class people had of owning their own home.
In an email to party members, leader Leanne Wood said he was "clearly breaching" Plaid's rulebook.
Here is an easy-to-understand guide to Brexit - beginning with the basics, then a look at the negotiations, followed by a selection of answers to questions we've been sent.
What's happening now?
The fourth round of monthly Brexit talks between the UK and the EU is taking place, with a decision due to be taken by the EU in October on whether or not enough progress has been made on "separation issues" to be able to start talks about the future relationship between the UK and the EU after Brexit.
Theresa May tried to speed up progress with a speech in Florence, Italy, but EU figures say not enough progress has been made yet.
What does Brexit mean?
It is a word that has become used as a shorthand way of saying the UK leaving the EU - merging the words Britain and exit to get Brexit, in a same way as a possible Greek exit from the euro was dubbed Grexit in the past.
Why is Britain leaving the European Union?
A referendum - a vote in which everyone (or nearly everyone) of voting age can take part - was held on Thursday 23 June, 2016, to decide whether the UK should leave or remain in the European Union.
Leave won by 51.9% to 48.1%.
The referendum turnout was 71.8%, with more than 30 million people voting.
Find the result in your area

What was the breakdown across the UK?
England voted for Brexit, by 53.4% to 46.6%.
Wales also voted for Brexit, with Leave getting 52.5% of the vote and Remain 47.5%.
Scotland and Northern Ireland both backed staying in the EU.
Scotland backed Remain by 62% to 38%, while 55.8% in Northern Ireland voted Remain and 44.2% Leave.
See the results in more detail.
What changed in government after the referendum?
Image copyright PA

Britain got a new Prime Minister - Theresa May.
The former home secretary took over from David Cameron, who announced he was resigning on the day he lost the referendum.
Like Mr Cameron, Mrs May was against Britain leaving the EU but she played only a very low-key role in the campaign and was never seen as much of an enthusiast for the EU.
She became PM without facing a full Conservative leadership contest after her key rivals from what had been the Leave side pulled out.
Where does Theresa May stand on Brexit?
Theresa May was against Brexit during the referendum campaign but is now in favour of it because she says it is what the British people want.
Her key message has been that "Brexit means Brexit" and she triggered the two year process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
She set out her negotiating goals in a letter to the EU council president Donald Tusk.
She outlined her plans for a transition period after Brexit in a big speech in Florence, Italy.
How did the snap election change things?
Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May surprised everyone after the 2017 Easter Bank Holiday by calling an election for 8 June (it had been due in 2020).
She said she wanted to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations with European leaders.
She said Labour, the SNP and other opposition parties - and members of the House of Lords - would try to block and frustrate her strategy.
However Mrs May did not increase her party's seats in the Commons and she ended up weakened, having to rely on support from the 10 MPs from Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.
You can get more detail on the 2017 election here.
What has happened to the UK economy since the Brexit vote?
David Cameron, his Chancellor George Osborne and many other senior figures who wanted to stay in the EU predicted an immediate economic crisis if the UK voted to leave and it is true that the pound slumped the day after the referendum - and remains around 10% lower against the dollar and 15% down against the euro.
But predictions of immediate doom were wrong, with the UK economy estimated to have grown 1.8% in 2016, second only to Germany's 1.9% among the world's G7 leading industrialised nations.
UK growth has slowed so far in 2017, but the economy is still expanding.
Inflation has risen since June 2016 to stand at 2.6%, but unemployment has continued to fall, to stand at a 42 year low of 4.4%.
Annual house price increases have fallen from 9.4% in June 2016 but were still at an inflation-beating 4.7% in the year to May 2017, according to official ONS figures.
Brexit talks are under way

They finally, officially, started on 19 June, 2017.
Here's a picture from that first session:

Image copyright Reuters

The UK and EU negotiating teams are scheduled to meet face-to-face for one week each month.
Their first tasks are trying to get an agreement on the rights of UK and EU citizens after Brexit, reaching a figure for the amount of money the UK will need to pay on leaving, the so-called "divorce bill", and what happens to the Northern Ireland border.
You can find out more about the talks here.
What is the European Union?
The European Union - often known as the EU - is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries (click here if you want to see the full list).
It began after World War Two to foster economic co-operation, with the idea that countries which trade together are more likely to avoid going to war with each other.
It has since grown to become a "single market" allowing goods and people to move around, basically as if the member states were one country.
It has its own currency, the euro, which is used by 19 of the member countries, its own parliament and it now sets rules in a wide range of areas - including on the environment, transport, consumer rights and even things such as mobile phone charges.
Click here for a beginners' guide to how the EU works.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How does the European Union work?
What is Article 50?
Article 50 is a plan for any country that wishes to exit the EU.
It was created as part of the Treaty of Lisbon - an agreement signed up to by all EU states which became law in 2009.
Before that treaty, there was no formal mechanism for a country to leave the EU.
It's pretty short - just five paragraphs - which spell out that any EU member state may decide to quit the EU, that it must notify the European Council and negotiate its withdrawal with the EU, that there are two years to reach an agreement - unless everyone agrees to extend it - and that the exiting state cannot take part in EU internal discussions about its departure.
What date will the UK will leave the EU?
For the UK to leave the EU it had to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which gives the two sides two years to agree the terms of the split.
Theresa May triggered this process on 29 March, meaning the UK is scheduled to leave on Friday, 29 March 2019.
It can be extended if all 28 EU members agree, but at the moment all sides are focusing on that date as being the key one.
What's going to happen to all the EU laws in force in the UK?
The Conservative government has introduced the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill to Parliament.
If passed, it will end the primacy of EU law in the UK.
This "Great Repeal Bill" as it has been called, is supposed to incorporate all EU legislation into UK law in one lump, after which the government will decide over a period of time which parts to keep, change or remove.
The government is facing claims from Remain supporting MPs that it is giving itself sweeping powers to change legislation without proper Parliamentary scrutiny.
Read a full guide to the bill.
What is the Labour Party's position on Brexit?
Labour's position on Brexit was tweaked in mid-August, when the shadow Brexit secretary, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that the party now wanted to keep the UK in the single market and a customs union during a transition that could last for up to four years.
Labour would also accept free movement of people, payments into the EU budget and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice during the transition.
This is a considerably "softer" version of Brexit than the one advocated by the government, but there are still divisions within the party about whether the UK should try to stay in the single market in the longer term.
What do 'soft' and 'hard' Brexit mean?
These terms have increasingly been used as debate focused on the terms of the UK's departure from the EU.
There is no strict definition of either, but they are used to refer to the closeness of the UK's relationship with the EU post-Brexit.
So at one extreme, "hard" Brexit could involve the UK refusing to compromise on issues like the free movement of people even if meant leaving the single market.
At the other end of the scale, a "soft" Brexit might follow a similar path to Norway, which is a member of the single market and has to accept the free movement of people as a result of that.
What is the single market?
The single market is seen by its advocates as the EU's biggest achievement and one of the main reasons it was set up in the first place.
Britain was a member of a free trade area in Europe before it joined what was then known as the common market.
In a free trade area countries can trade with each other without paying tariffs - but it is not a single market because the member states do not have to merge their economies together.
The European Union single market, which was completed in 1992, allows the free movement of goods, services, money and people within the European Union, as if it was a single country.
It is possible to set up a business or take a job anywhere within it.
The idea was to boost trade, create jobs and lower prices.
But it requires common law-making to ensure products are made to the same technical standards and imposes other rules to ensure a "level playing field".
Critics say it generates too many petty regulations and robs members of control over their own affairs.
Mass migration from poorer to richer countries has also raised questions about the free movement rule.
Theresa May has ruled out the UK staying in the single market.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has said continued membership of the single has to be an option in negotiations with Brussels.
Read more: A free trade area v EU single market

What's the difference between the single market and the customs union?
The customs union ensures EU member states all charge the same import duties to countries outside the EU.
It allows member states to trade freely with each other, without burdensome customs checks at borders, but it limits their freedom to strike their own trade deals.
It is different from a free trade area.
In a free trade area no tariffs, taxes or quotas are charged on goods and services moving within the area but members are free to strike their own external trade deals.
The single market is a very different beast - it is not just about the trade in goods.
It allows the free movement of people, money and services as if the EU was a single country.
Who is negotiating Britain's exit from the EU?
Theresa May set up a government department, headed by veteran Conservative MP and Leave campaigner David Davis, to take responsibility for Brexit.
Former defence secretary, Liam Fox, who also campaigned to leave the EU, was given the new job of international trade secretary and Boris Johnson, who was a leader of the official Leave campaign, is foreign secretary.
These three are each set to play roles in negotiations with the EU and seek out new international agreements, although it would be Mrs May, as prime minister, who would have the final say.
Who's who guide to both sides' negotiators.
How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU?
The Article 50 process lasts two years so the intention is for the UK to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
EU law still stands in the UK until it ceases being a member.
But there is currently uncertainty about how final the break will be on that day - a number of UK and EU figures back the idea of having a "transition" period of up to three years to allow a smooth implementation of whatever Brexit deal is negotiated and minimise disruption to businesses and holidaymakers etc.
Why might Brexit take so long?
Unpicking 43 years of treaties and agreements covering thousands of different subjects was never going to be a straightforward task.
It is further complicated by the fact that it has never been done before and negotiators will, to some extent, be making it up as they go along.
The post-Brexit trade deal is likely to be the most complex part of the negotiation because it needs the unanimous approval of more than 30 national and regional parliaments across Europe, some of whom may want to hold referendums.
So why can't the UK just cut all ties in March 2019?
The UK could cut all ties, but Theresa May and others would like to avoid such a "cliff-edge" where current regulations on things like cross-border trade and travel between the UK and the EU ends overnight.
They think it would harm the economy.
What is the focus of negotiations between the UK and EU?
The priority issues in negotiations are:

1) Agreeing what rights EU citizens already in the UK - and UK citizens living in the rest of the EU - will have after Brexit.
2) Agreeing a figure for the amount of money the UK has to pay the rest of the EU "to settle its accounts", when it leaves.
3) Working out what will happen on the border between Northern Ireland, when it is outside the EU, and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU.
The EU says it wants to make decent progress on these three issues before beginning talks about what the UK's relations with the EU will be like after Brexit.
Mrs May set out her negotiating priorities in the letter officially triggering the process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
Here's a guide to the key points.
How are the talks going?
There have been agreements on some technical points, but the chief EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said there had been no decisive progress on any of the main issues.
The UK's Brexit Secretary, David Davis, insists progress has been made.
The main sticking point at the moment is money - and the size of the bill the UK will pay to cover its outstanding obligations when it leaves.
The UK wants this to be as low as possible.
All the other countries in the EU want it to be as high as possible.
Because when the UK leaves, there will be a hole in the EU budget and they will have to cover the shortfall.
The UK government has published a series of papers setting out its position on issues such as future customs arrangements, and on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Government policy is now that the UK will leave the single market and the customs union on the day of Brexit, but that it will try to replicate existing customs arrangements during a time-limited transition period.
What happens if there is no deal with the EU?
Prime Minister Theresa May says leaving the EU with no deal whatsoever would be better than signing the UK up to a bad one.
Without an agreement on trade, the UK would have to operate under World Trade Organisation rules, which could mean customs checks and tariffs on goods as well as longer border check for travellers.
There are also questions about what would happen to Britain's position as global financial centre and the land border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
There is also concern that Brits living abroad in the EU could lose residency rights and access to free emergency health care.
Here is a full explanation of what 'no deal' could mean

What happens to EU citizens living in the UK?
It has yet to be agreed.
All EU nationals lawfully resident in the UK for at least five years will be able to apply for "settled status" and be able to bring over spouses and children, under a 15-page proposal unveiled by Theresa May.
Mrs May says she wants to give reassurance and certainty to the 3.2 million EU citizens in the UK - as well as citizens of the three EEA countries and Switzerland.
But any deal on their future legal status and rights must be reciprocal and also give certainty to the 1.2 million British expats living on the continent after the UK leaves the EU - expected to be on 29 March 2019, she says.
Michel Barnier, who is leading the Brexit negotiations for the EU, said the UK's proposals did not go far enough and he wanted the same level of protection citizens currently have under EU law.
He has demanded more clarity and ambition from the UK government.
The key points of the UK's proposals are:

Those granted settled status will be able to live, work, study and claim benefits just as they can now

The cut-off date for eligibility is undecided but will be between 29 March 2017 and 29 March 2019

Family members of EU citizens living abroad will be able to return and apply for settled status

EU nationals in the UK for less than five years at the specified date will be able to continue living and working in the UK

Once resident for five years, they can apply for settled status

Those arriving after the cut-off point will be able to stay temporarily

But there should be "no expectation" they will be granted permanent residence

A period of "blanket residence permission" may apply to give officials time to process applications to stay in the UK

The Home Office will no longer require evidence that EU citizens who weren't working held "comprehensive sickness insurance"

Labour has said it would guarantee the rights of of EU citizens living in the UK to stay there on "day one" of a Labour government.
EU nationals with a right to permanent residence, which is granted after they have lived in the UK for five years, should not see their rights affected after Brexit.
What happens to UK citizens working in the EU?
A lot depends on the kind of deal the UK agrees with the EU.
If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions on EU nationals, then other countries could reciprocate, meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work.
What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK

Any EU citizen already living and working in the UK will be able to carry on working and living in the UK after Brexit.
The current plan is that even after Brexit, people from the EU will be able to move to work in the UK during a "transition" phase of up to three years.
However they will have to register.
A permanent proposal for post-Brexit immigration is not likely to be known for a few months yet, although it is widely expected that there will be a work permit system along the lines of that for non-EU nationals.
What does the fall in the value of the pound mean for prices in the shops?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shoppers will need to keep a close eye on how much they are spending

People travelling overseas from the UK have found their pounds are buying fewer euros or dollars after the Brexit vote.
Even if the pound regains some of its value, currency experts expect it in the longer term to remain at least 10% below where it was when the referendum happened.
This means exports should get a boost as UK goods will be cheaper, but imported goods will get more expensive - some price rises for food, clothing and homeware goods have been seen.
The latest UK inflation figures have the rate at 2.6%, above the target level, but not out of kilter with recent years.
Will immigration be cut?
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has said one of the main messages she has taken from the Leave vote is that the British people want to see a reduction in immigration.
She has said this will be a focus of Brexit negotiations as she remains committed to getting net migration - the difference between the numbers entering and leaving the country - down to a "sustainable" level, which she defines as being below 100,000 a year.
The rate of increase in the size of Britain's population has slowed significantly since the Brexit vote.
This has largely been driven by an increase in emigration from the UK by citizens of Poland and the other East and Central European countries.
There were still 246,000 more people coming to live in the UK than leaving in the year to March 2017, according to the latest estimates - some way above the government's target of 100,000.
Could there be a second referendum?
It seems highly unlikely.
Both the Conservatives and the Labour Party have ruled out another referendum, arguing that it would be an undemocratic breach of trust with the British people who clearly voted to Leave.
Will MPs get a vote on the Brexit deal?
Theresa May has promised there will be a Commons and Lords vote to approve whatever deal the UK and the rest of the EU agree at the end of the two year process.
This vote is currently proposed as a "take it or leave it" one.
Labour wants the vote to have the option of sending the UK team back to renegotiate.
It is worth mentioning that any deal also has to be agreed by the European Parliament - with British MEPs getting a chance to vote on it there.
Will I need a visa to travel to the EU?
The UK government wants to keep visa-free travel to the UK for EU visitors after Brexit and it is hoping this will be reciprocated, meaning UK citizens will continue to be able to visit EU countries for short periods without seeking official permission to travel.
If visitors from EU countries wanted to work, study or settle in the UK they would have to apply for permission under the proposals.
No agreement has been reached yet, however.
If it is decided that EU citizens will need visas to come to the UK in the future, then UK citizens will need visas to travel to the EU.
Image copyright Reuters

Will I still be able to use my passport?
It is a British document - there is no such thing as an EU passport, so your passport will stay the same.
In theory, the government could, if it wanted, decide to change the colour, which is currently standardised for EU countries, says the BBC's Europe correspondent, Chris Morris.
Has any other member state ever left the EU?
No nation state has ever left the EU.
But Greenland, one of Denmark's overseas territories, held a referendum in 1982, after gaining a greater degree of self government, and voted by 52% to 48% to leave, which it duly did after a period of negotiation.
The BBC's Carolyn Quinn visited Greenland to find out how they did it.
What does this mean for Scotland?
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Nicola Sturgeon says a new independence referendum in Scotland is likely

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in the wake of the Leave result that it was "democratically unacceptable" that Scotland faced being taken out of the EU when it voted to Remain.
Ms Sturgeon has officially asked for permission for a second referendum to be held.
She had wanted the vote to be held between the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, but after losing seats at the 2017 general election she has put her plans on hold with no referendum likely until 2021.
Theresa May has said a second referendum should not be held during the Brexit process.
What does it mean for Northern Ireland?
The land border between Northern Ireland and EU member the Republic of Ireland is a key part of the Brexit talks.
There is currently a common travel area between the UK and the Republic.
Like Scotland, Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU in last year's referendum.
The result in Northern Ireland was 56% for Remain and 44% for Leave.
The UK government has published a paper setting out its vision for a post-Brexit border.
It wants to avoid returning to a "hard border" - that means no physical infrastructure, such as customs posts.
There would be no CCTV cameras or number plate recognition technology at the border, or set back from it.
Instead, the UK government is arguing for a wide-ranging exemption under which small and medium-sized businesses will not have to comply with any new customs tariffs.
If the proposals are accepted, customs officials envisage using a mix of technology and physical checks to monitor the compliance of bigger businesses engaged in international trade.
Critics say the proposals lack credible detail, with Labour deriding the plans for the border as "a fantasy frontier".
Sinn Fein, which was part of the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly before it was suspended, has called for a referendum on leaving the UK and joining the Republic of Ireland as soon as possible.
The Conservatives have rejected Sinn Fein's call, saying there was no evidence opinion had shifted in favour of a united Ireland.
How much has Brexit cost so far and how much will it cost by the end?
There is much debate about the long-term costs and benefits to the UK economy of Brexit - but what we do know for certain is that the EU wants the UK to settle any outstanding bills before it leaves.
There have been no official estimates published of the size of the bill, which covers things like pension payments to EU officials, the cost of relocating London-based EU agencies and outstanding EU budget commitments.
Various figures ranging from 50bn (44bn) to 100bn (88bn) euros have been bandied about but although the UK has agreed to meet its financial obligations, Brexit secretary David Davis has said: "We will not be paying 100bn."
The UK could leave without any Brexit "divorce bill" deal but that would probably mean everyone ending up in court.
If compromise can be achieved, and if payment of the bill were to be spread over many years, the amounts involved may not be that significant economically.
How will pensions, savings, investments and mortgages be affected?
During the referendum campaign, David Cameron said the so-called "triple lock" for state pensions would be threatened by a UK exit.
This is the agreement by which pensions increase by at least the level of earnings, inflation or 2.5% every year - whichever is the highest.
Theresa May had proposed ditching the 2.5% part of the lock in the party's election manifesto, but as part of the post-election deal with the DUP the triple lock was again guaranteed.
There was an early post-referendum cut in interest rates, which has helped keep mortgage and other borrowing rates low.
There are few signs yet that rising inflation have worried the Bank of England enough to consider raising interest rates.
But if that happened it would make mortgages and loans more expensive to repay - but would be good news for savers.
Will duty-free sales on Europe journeys return?
Image copyright Thinkstock

Journalists and writers on social media have greeted the reintroduction of duty-free sales as an "upside" or "silver lining" of Brexit.
As with most Brexit consequences, whether this will happen depends on how negotiations with the EU play out - whether the "customs union" agreement between Britain and the EU is ended or continued.
Will EHIC cards still be valid?
Image copyright Thinkstock

If you are already living in another EU country on the day the UK leaves the bloc, your EHIC card - which entitles travellers to state-provided medical help for any condition or injury that requires urgent treatment, in any other country within the EU, as well as several non-EU countries - will continue to work.
After that date, for EU citizens wishing to travel to the UK or UK citizens wishing to travel to the EU, it is unclear about what will happen because no deal has yet been reached.
Read more here.
Will cars need new number plates?
Probably not, says BBC Europe correspondent Chris Morris, because there's no EU-wide law on vehicle registration or car number places, and the EU flag symbol is a voluntary identifier and not compulsory.
The DVLA says there has been no discussion about what would happen to plates with the flag if the UK voted to leave.
Could MPs block an EU exit?
Could the necessary legislation pass the Commons, given that a lot of MPs in the current Parliament - all SNP and Lib Dems, nearly all Labour and many Conservatives - were in favour of staying?
The referendum result is not legally binding - Parliament still has to pass the laws that will get Britain out of the 28 nation bloc, starting with the repeal of the 1972 European Communities Act.
The withdrawal agreement also has to be ratified by Parliament - the House of Lords and/or the Commons could vote against ratification, according to a House of Commons library report.
So in theory they could block the UK's EU exit.
But in practice that is seen as very unlikely given that a majority of people voted for Brexit in the referendum.
Will leaving the EU mean we don't have to abide by the European Court of Human Rights?
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is not a European Union institution.
It was set up by the Council of Europe, which has 47 members including Russia and Ukraine.
So quitting the EU will not exempt the UK from its decisions.
The Conservatives are committed to sticking with the Human Rights Act which requires UK courts to treat the ECHR as setting legal precedents for the UK during the Brexit process.
There have been longstanding plans to repeal the act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.
What about the European Court of Justice?
The Court of Justice of the European Union - to give it its full name - is the EU's highest legal authority.
It is based in Luxembourg.
It is an entirely different thing to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).
It is the ECHR not the ECJ that has often upset British politicians by making it harder, for example, to deport terrorist suspects.
The ECJ interprets and enforces the rules of the single market, settling disputes between member countries over issues like free movement and trade.
It is at the centre of pretty much everything the EU does.
Prime Minister Theresa May has vowed that Britain will not be under the "direct" jurisdiction of the ECJ after Brexit.
But the UK government has not ruled out remaining under its jurisdiction during the Brexit transition period that is planned after March 2019.
After that, there will need to be a new mechanism for settling disputes between the UK and the EU but what form that take has yet to be decided.
There has been talk of an ombudsman, or some other third party, being appointed to settle disagreements.
The UK has set out some ideas in a position paper, which was criticised for being too "vague".
The EU is insisting that its citizens in the UK should continue to enjoy the legal protection of the ECJ even after Brexit, guaranteeing their right to work and access to benefits among other things.
This is a major sticking point in the negotiations, with the UK saying EU citizens living in the UK should be subject to British law only.
Will the UK be able to rejoin the EU in the future?
BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says the UK would have to start from scratch with no rebate, and enter accession talks with the EU.
Every member state would have to agree to the UK re-joining.
But she says with elections looming elsewhere in Europe, other leaders might not be generous towards any UK demands.
New members are required to adopt the euro as their currency, once they meet the relevant criteria, although the UK could try to negotiate an opt-out.
Who wanted the UK to leave the EU?
The UK Independence Party, which received nearly four million votes - 13% of those cast - in the 2015 general election, but who saw their vote collapse to about a quarter of that at this year's election, has campaigned for many years for Britain's exit from the EU.
They were joined in their call during the referendum campaign by about half the Conservative Party's MPs, including Boris Johnson and five members of the then Cabinet.
A handful of Labour MPs and Northern Ireland party the DUP were also in favour of leaving.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to leave?
They said Britain was being held back by the EU, which they said imposed too many rules on business and charged billions of pounds a year in membership fees for little in return.
They also wanted the UK to make all of its own laws again, rather than being created through shared decision making with other EU nations.
Immigration was also a big issue for Brexit supporters, They wanted Britain to take back full control of its borders and reduce the number of people coming here to live and/or work.
One of the main principles of EU membership is "free movement", which means you don't need to get a visa to go and live in another EU country.
The Leave campaign also objected to the idea of "ever closer union" between EU member states and what they see as moves towards the creation of a "United States of Europe".
Who wanted the UK to stay in the EU?
Then Prime Minister David Cameron was the leading voice in the Remain campaign, after reaching an agreement with other European Union leaders that would have changed the terms of Britain's membership had the country voted to stay in.
He said the deal would give Britain "special" status and help sort out some of the things British people said they didn't like about the EU, like high levels of immigration - but critics said the deal would make little difference.
Sixteen members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet, including the woman who would replace him as PM, Theresa May, also backed staying in.
The Conservative Party was split on the issue and officially remained neutral in the campaign.
The Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru, the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats were all in favour of staying in.
The then US president Barack Obama also wanted Britain to remain in the EU, as did the leaders of other EU nations such as France and Germany.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to stay?
Those campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU said it got a big boost from membership - it makes selling things to other EU countries easier and, they argued, the flow of immigrants, most of whom are young and keen to work, fuels economic growth and helps pay for public services.
They also said Britain's status in the world would be damaged by leaving and that we are more secure as part of the 28 nation club, rather than going it alone.
What about businesses?
Big business - with a few exceptions - tended to be in favour of Britain staying in the EU because it makes it easier for them to move money, people and products around the world.
Given the crucial role of London as a financial centre, there's interest in how many jobs may be lost to other hubs in the EU.
Some UK exporters say they've had increased orders or enquiries because of the fall in the value of the pound.
Others are less optimistic, fearing products for the European market may have to be made at plants in the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Boris Johnson was one of the most prominent Leave campaigners

Who led the rival sides in the campaign?
Britain Stronger in Europe - the main cross-party group campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU was headed by former Marks and Spencer chairman Lord Rose.
It was backed by key figures from the Conservative Party, including Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne, most Labour MPs, including party leader Jeremy Corbyn and Alan Johnson, who ran the Labour In for Britain campaign, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru, the Alliance party and the SDLP in Northern Ireland, and the Green Party.
Who funded the campaign: Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to remain : The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
: The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Vote Leave - A cross-party campaign that has the backing of senior Conservatives such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnson plus a handful of Labour MPs, including Gisela Stuart and Graham Stringer, and UKIP's Douglas Carswell and Suzanne Evans, and the DUP in Northern Ireland.
Former Tory chancellor Lord Lawson and SDP founder Lord Owen were also involved.
It had a string of affiliated groups such as Farmers for Britain, Muslims for Britain and Out and Proud, a gay anti-EU group, aimed at building support in different communities.
Who funded the campaign: Vote Leave raised 2.78m.
Its largest supporter was businessman Patrick Barbour, who gave 500,000.
Former Conservative Party treasurer Peter Cruddas gave a 350,000 donation and construction mogul Terence Adams handed over 300,000.
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to leave: UKIP leader Nigel Farage was not part of Vote Leave.
His party ran its own campaign.
The Trade Union and Socialist Coalition also ran its own out campaign.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Will the EU still use English?
Yes, says BBC Europe editor Katya Adler.
There will still be 27 other EU states in the bloc, and others wanting to join in the future, and the common language tends to be English - "much to France's chagrin", she says.
Will Brexit harm product safety?
Probably not, is the answer.
It would depend on whether or not the UK decided to get rid of current safety standards.
Even if that happened any company wanting to export to the EU would have to comply with its safety rules, and it's hard to imagine a company would want to produce two batches of the same products.
Here are a selection of questions sent in - you can ask yours via the form at the end of this page

Which MPs were for staying and which for leaving?
The good news for Edward, from Cambridge, who asked this question, is we have been working on exactly such a list.
Click here for the latest version.
How much does the UK contribute to the EU and how much do we get in return?
In answer to this query from Nancy from Hornchurch - the UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out.
Only France and Germany contribute more.
In 2014/15, Poland was the largest beneficiary, followed by Hungary and Greece.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out

The UK also gets an annual rebate that was negotiated by Margaret Thatcher and money back, in the form of regional development grants and payments to farmers, which added up to 4.6bn in 2014/15.
According to the latest Treasury figures, the UK's net contribution for 2014/15 was 8.8bn - nearly double what it was in 2009/10.
The National Audit Office, using a different formula which takes into account EU money paid directly to private sector companies and universities to fund research, and measured over the EU's financial year, shows the UK's net contribution for 2014 was 5.7bn.
Read more number crunching from Reality Check.
If I retire to Spain or another EU country will my healthcare costs still be covered?
David, from East Sussex, is worried about what will happen to his retirement plans.
This is one of those issues where it is not possible to say definitively what would happen.
At the moment, the large British expat community in Spain gets free access to Spanish GPs and their hospital treatment is paid for by the NHS.
After they become permanent residents Spain pays for their hospital treatment.
In some other EU countries such as France expats of working age are expected to pay the same healthcare costs as locals but once they reach retirement age their medical bills are paid by the NHS.
If Britain remains in the single market, or the European Economic Area as it is known, it might be able to continue with this arrangement, according to a House of Commons library research note.
If Britain has to negotiate trade deals with individual member states, it may opt to continue paying for expats' healthcare through the NHS or decide that they would have to cover their own costs if they continue to live abroad, if the country where they live declines to do so.
What will happen to protected species?
Dee, from Launceston, wanted to know what would happen to EU laws covering protected species such as bats in the event of Britain leaving the EU.
The answer is that they would remain in place, initially at least.
After the Leave vote, the government will probably review all EU-derived laws in the two years leading up to the official exit date to see which ones to keep or scrap.
The status of Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection Areas, which are designated by the EU, would be reviewed to see what alternative protections could be applied.
The same process would apply to European Protected Species legislation, which relate to bats and their habitats.
The government would want to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the repeal of EU laws before new UK laws are in place - it would also continue to abide by other international agreements covering environmental protection.
How much money will the UK save through changes to migrant child benefits and welfare payments?
Martin, from Poole, in Dorset, wanted to know what taxpayers would have got back from the benefit curbs negotiated by David Cameron in Brussels.
We don't exactly know because the details were never worked out.
HM Revenue and Customs suggested about 20,000 EU nationals receive child benefit payments in respect of 34,000 children in their country of origin at an estimated cost of about 30m.
But the total saving would have been significantly less than that because Mr Cameron did not get the blanket ban he wanted.
Instead, payments would have been linked to the cost of living in the countries where the children live.
David Cameron said as many as 40% of EU migrant families who come to Britain could lose an average of 6,000 a year of in-work benefits when his "emergency brake" was applied.
The DWP estimated between 128,700 and 155,100 people would be affected.
But the cuts would have been phased in.
New arrivals would not have got tax credits and other in-work benefits straight away but would have gradually gained access to them over a four year period at a rate that had not been decided.
The plan will never be implemented now.
Will we be barred from the Eurovision Song Contest?
Image copyright BBC/Guy Levy Image caption To participate in the Eurovision Song Contest countries need to be a member of the European Broadcasting Union, which is independent of the EU

Sophie from Peterborough, who asks the question, need not worry.
We have consulted Alasdair Rendall, president of the UK Eurovision fan club, who says: "All participating countries must be a member of the European Broadcasting Union.
The EBU - which is totally independent of the EU - includes countries both inside and outside of the EU, and also includes countries such as Israel that are outside of Europe.
Indeed the UK started participating in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1957, 16 years before joining the then EEC."
What will happen to pet passports?
The answer to Alan Rippington's question, the European Commission says, is that pet passports will, like everything else, form part of the negotiations.
The UK introduced the pet passport scheme in 2000, replacing the previous quarantine laws.
It means you and your dog, cat or ferret can travel between the UK and the EU (and other participating countries) as long as it has a passport, a microchip and has been vaccinated against rabies.
Of course, until the UK actually leaves the EU, the scheme continues as normal.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "The UK has a long history of world-leading animal welfare and biosecurity standards, which we are committed to safeguarding and improving, securing the best deal for Britain as we leave the EU."
Has Brexit made house prices fall?
Image copyright PA

So far, the answer is no.
But there has been anecdotal evidence of house prices falling at the top of the market in Central London and the annual increase in the price of property has fallen from 9.4% at the time of the referendum to 4.9% a year later.
What is the 'red tape' that opponents of the EU complain about?
Ged, from Liverpool, suspects "red tape" is a euphemism for employment rights and environmental protection.
According to the Open Europe think tank, four of the top five most costly EU regulations are either employment or environment-related.
The UK renewable energy strategy, which the think-tank says costs 4.7bn a year, tops the list.
The working time directive (4.2bn a year) - which limits the working week to 48 hours - and the temporary agency workers directive (2.1bn a year), giving temporary staff many of the same rights as permanent ones - are also on the list.
Most of the EU-derived laws on the UK's statute books will be copied across into UK law so that businesses can continue to function on the day Britain leaves the EU, in March 2019.
Future governments will then be able to amend or scrap them.
Brexit may also generate "red tape" of its own - if the UK leaves the single market and the customs union, businesses could face more paperwork as they cross borders into EU countries.
Will Britain be party to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership?
Ste, in Bolton, asked about this.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - or TTIP - currently under negotiation between the EU and United States would create the biggest free trade area the world has ever seen.
Cheerleaders for TTIP, including former PM David Cameron, believed it could make American imports cheaper and boost British exports to the US to the tune of 10bn a year.
But many on the left, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, fear it will shift more power to multinational corporations, undermine public services, wreck food standards and threaten basic rights.
US President Donald Trump is not a fan of the TTIP agreement, which means it is now seen as unlikely to be agreed - but whatever happens, when the UK quits the EU it will not be part of TTIP and will have to negotiate its own trade deal with the US.
What impact will leaving the EU have on the NHS?
Paddy, from Widnes, wanted to know how leaving the EU will affect the number of doctors we have and impact the NHS.
This became an issue in the referendum debate after the Leave campaign claimed the money Britain sends to the EU, which it claimed was 350m a week, could be spent on the NHS instead.
The BBC's Reality Check team looked into this claim.
Before the vote Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned that leaving the EU would lead to budget cuts and an exodus of overseas doctors and nurses.
The Leave campaign dismissed his intervention as "scaremongering" and insisted that EU membership fees could be spent on domestic services like the NHS.
Since the referendum spending on the NHS has continued at the same level as planned.
EU citizens working for the NHS are expected to get the right to stay in the UK, although details on EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens elsewhere in the EU are yet to be finalised (see earlier answer).
Sally Miller bought a house in Spain nine years ago and plans to retire there in the next five years.
She asked how Brexit will affect this.
Image copyright Getty Images

The BBC's Kevin Connolly says:

The issue of free movement - the rights of EU citizens to live and work in the UK - was a huge issue in the Brexit referendum of course, and will be a big part of the exit negotiations.
We've heard quite a bit from the British side already with the government saying that securing the status and rights of EU nationals in the UK and UK nationals in the EU is one of the government's earliest priorities, and specifically that it is looking for a reciprocal deal.
So you might feel the mood music is encouraging but all we can say for sure is that, while there are no guarantees yet, it will be a big part of the Brexit negotiations to come.
Jonathan Eaton is a Briton living in the Netherlands with his wife, who is Dutch.
He asks what rights to benefits and housing he will have if he has to return to the UK.
Image copyright Getty Images

BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith says:

The short answer is there is no easy access to benefits.
As it stands at the moment, Brexit aside, you will have to pass what's known as a habitual residence test which was introduced in 1994 and applies to British citizens just as EU citizens.
The rules have been tightened up which means for some benefits, if you have been out of the country you can't even think about applying for the test for several months.
For example, when it comes to jobseeker's allowance, you cannot even take the test to apply for those benefits for three months.
And that was done to stop EU citizens coming here and just getting on benefits straight away.
After three months, you can take the test which looks at your English language skills, what sort of efforts you made to find work before coming to the UK.
It also considers how strong a tie you have to the UK, whether you have property or family here and what your intentions are in terms of staying and working, or returning.
But once you have taken the test, if you pass it then you should be eligible to apply for a range of benefits, as long as you meet the usual requirements in terms of income and showing you are looking for work.
That is likely to continue when we move fully on to Universal Credit.
The one sort of unknown in the whole system is what happens with Brexit negotiations, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of British nationals abroad.
And we simply don't know what that will involve and whether in any way that might impact on how soon you can apply for benefits when you come back to Britain.
Will I have to buy a new passport and driving licence, and will my rights to use them freely across Europe be taken away from me after Brexit, asks Francis Lee.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

At the moment UK passports carry the words European Union and British driving licences have the blue square with yellow flags of the EU.
That will presumably change after Brexit but it seems likely that the change will be phased in so that you'll simply get documents with the new design when the old ones expire.
That's what happened, I seem to remember, when the UK joined the EU.
Anything else would be expensive and risk flooding the system, after all.
The right to use them freely is an interesting question.
When we talk about restrictions on freedom of movement we generally mean the freedom to live and work in another country.
If Britain poses restrictions on the EU in that respect then it can expect some kind of response.
But in terms of tourism there are plenty of non-EU countries whose citizens can visit the UK for up to 90 days without a visa.
And, as part of the Brexit negotiations, you'd expect similar arrangements to be discussed for the UK.
Both sides need each others' tourists and, after all, if you can drive a car in the United States on a UK licence then it doesn't seem fanciful to assume that you'll be able to do the same in Europe in future.
It is very clear that the PM and the government want to leave the tyranny of the European Court of Justice.
Why has leaving the European Court of Human Rights (an organisation far more hated than the ECJ) been ignored, asks Barry Fryer.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

Two different courts here of course, so two different bits of politics.
Crucially, the European Court of Human Rights is not an EU institution and that's why discussions about leaving it have not formed a key part of the Brexit debate.
The European Court of Justice - the ECJ - is one of the primary institutions of the European Union and administers EU law.
So, while it might have a role in supervising a future trade deal, part of the goal of Brexit was to remove the UK from the ECJ's jurisdiction.
The European Court of Human Rights which, as Barry points out, can be even more controversial, is a body set up not by the EU but by member states of the Council of Europe, a separate institution which contains countries that aren't EU members.
It's this court which has produced rulings which have been controversial in the UK, including blocking the extradition of Abu Qatada and establishing the right of serving prisoners to vote in elections - and leaving the EU won't change anything here.
Adrian Wallis runs a small electronics company and wants to know about export tariffs after Brexit, and what they'd mean for his business.
Kevin Connolly says:

As long as Britain has been in the EU we haven't really talked much about tariffs.
That's because all trade within the European Economic Area is tariff-free.
On top of that the EU has trade agreements with 52 other countries as well.
After Brexit, Britain is going to have to negotiate new deals all on its own.
That's both a problem and an opportunity.
For example you can use tariffs against foreign imports to protect businesses you care about, as the EU does with agricultural produce, but you do then run the risk of retaliation from your trading partners.
The key body in all of this is the World Trade Organisation and at the moment the UK is only a member via its membership of the EU.
Image copyright Thinkstock

One bit of good news is that the UK will automatically become a member in its own right as soon as it leaves the EU.
That matters because in the period when the UK is negotiating a new trade deal with the EU, and that could take years, trade would be conducted under WTO rules.
At the moment, for non-food items, that implies an average tariff of about 2.3%.
But suppose the EU were to impose a 10% tariff on UK car imports, for example.
Well, then the UK could impose the same tariff on German and French cars.
In theory, an economist would say that creates a situation where everyone has an incentive to sort out a better deal for their consumers.
The snag is that these things take years, if not decades.
They tend to be done on a country-by-country and sector-by-sector basis.
So if Adrian is waiting to find out the implications for his business, then I'm afraid he's going to have to be patient.
Maybe very, very patient.
What impact will leaving the European Union have on the UK's long term political influence in Europe, asks Peter Hoare.
Norman Smith says:

There are basically two views on what will happen in terms of clout when outside the EU.
View one is that the UK projects power and influence in the world, working through organisations such as the EU and that on our own it'll be a much diminished force.
View two is that unencumbered by the other 27 members, the UK can get on with things and start adopting a much more independent, self-confident, assertive role on the world stage.
My take is that not much is probably going to change.
I say that because the UK'll still be a member of significant organisations such as the UN and Nato, and will still be co-operating with EU partners.
For example, there will still be close ties on defence with the French.
The UK will still be the same old Britain, will still have significant military force, will still be a wealthy country and will still be a nuclear power, so I don't think people will suddenly think the UK's an entirely different country.
Are other countries likely to leave the EU and if so could we start a new free trade area, asks David John.
Kevin Connolly says:

Funnily enough, I was discussing this question just the other day with a French politician, a conservative and a real Europhile, and he said he thought if there was a free vote in France tomorrow, as the right wing National Front would like, that the French would vote to leave.
But generally speaking I can't see much prospect of a tidal wave of insurrectionist, exitism sweeping the continent.
When a country like Ireland has a spat with the EU about tax, for example, it does annoy Irish politicians, but most mainstream leaders in the Europe have grown up with the idea that the EU has brought peace and prosperity for decades.
Image copyright Getty Images

Lots of them see plenty that irritates them about the European Union, but they mainly argue that the benefits hugely outweigh the irritations.
And in countries where you do find Euroscepticism, such as Poland and Hungary, there is also a healthy awareness that there are huge financial benefits to membership.
As for the future, we will see.
If the UK were to get a fantastic Brexit deal then maybe others would be tempted to go.
But the truth is, lots of European politicians want the EU to be tough with Britain precisely to stop other countries from following it through the door.
As to Britain forming its own free trade area, I think it seems an awfully long shot and on balance it is unlikely, not least because there are not that many free countries around available to recruit into another free trade area.
Britain could perhaps join the Free Trade Association along with Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland.
But of course it would be joining under existing rules, so the likeliest future for a post-Brexit UK, I think, is a future where it tries to do the best deal possible with the EU and then looks around for other free trade deals.
But that would fall short of creating a free trade area based on the UK itself.
What will happen to the borders in Gibraltar and Northern Ireland, asks Nigel May.
Kevin Connolly says:

I think the question of what is going to happen to borders after Brexit is one of the most difficult of the lot.
Since 1985 when Spain joined the EU, it has basically been prevented from closing the border with Gibraltar as a way of applying pressure to the British territory.
In fact, 12,000 Spanish people cross into the territory to work every day and the area of Spain around Gibraltar is a pretty depressed area so they are important jobs.
On the other hand, the Spanish have talked openly about this being an opportunity to get Gibraltar back.
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, its minister of foreign affairs, said in September the UK's vote to leave the EU was "a unique historical opportunity in more than three hundred years to get Gibraltar back".
But at a minimum, as things stand, it looks to me as though they could certainly re-impose border controls if they chose to.
Image copyright Getty Images

The situation with Ireland's border is more complex.
For those of us for whom Northern Ireland is home, the total disappearance of military check points on the border is one of the most tangible daily reminders of the end of the Troubles and no one wants a border like that back.
But, when the day comes when Ireland is in the EU and the UK is not, then the Irish border of course is also going to be the UK's land border with the European Union.
Conservative leader Theresa May has said we don't see a return to the borders of the past, but the reality is that if Britain leaves the common customs area, then presumably some sort of checks are going to be necessary on that border.
And if the UK wants to stop Polish or Romanian migrant workers using Dublin airport as a back door into the UK, then it is going to have to do something about that too.
The UK has published a paper setting out its preferred options.
Of course, what it will all mean for towns and villages like Belleek and Belcoo in County Fermanagh, which more or less straddle the border, is hard to imagine.
How will access to healthcare change for expats living in the EU, asks Veronique Bradley, who lives in Italy.
Kevin Connolly says:

Healthcare is one of those issues that remains relatively simple as long as the UK remains in the EU.
It is just part of a range of citizens' rights that apply across the entire union.
After Brexit, I suppose there will be two possibilities.
The first and easiest would be that the negotiators come up with a reciprocal deal that keeps the current arrangements, or something a bit like them, in place.
If they don't, the situation will depend on the individual country where you live.
For the Bradleys in Italy, for example, residents from non-EU countries, and that will soon include the Brits, will have to finalise their residency status, acquire an Italian identity card and then apply for an Italian health insurance card.
If they visit the UK at the moment, access to the NHS for non-resident Brits is not straightforward unless you have a European health insurance card.
The right to treatment is based on residency, not on your tax status.
So, even if you live abroad and pay some British tax on a buy-to-let property for instance, you might find yourself getting a bill for any NHS treatment you end up getting while you are back in the UK.
What will happen to EU nationals who lived and worked in the UK and now receive a British state pension, asks Peter Barz, a German citizen living in the UK.
Norman Smith says:

If you are an EU national and you get a British state pension, nothing much should change, because the state pension is dependent not on where you come from, but on how long you have paid National Insurance contributions in the UK.
So it doesn't matter whether you come from Lithuania or Latvia or Transylvania or Timbuktu, what counts is how much you have paid in terms of National Insurance contributions.
There is one wrinkle though and that is that you have to have paid in for at least 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images

Under the current rules, if you are an EU citizen and haven't paid in for 10 years, you can point to any contributions you have made in your native country and say, "I paid in there", and that will count.
That works for EU countries and another 16 countries with which the UK has social security agreements.
Once we have left the EU, you will no longer be able to do that unless we negotiate new reciprocal agreements.
If we don't then potentially, if you have paid in fewer than than 10 years' worth of National Insurance contributions, you will not get a British state pension.
Is it possible to be both an EU citizen and not an EU citizen, asks Declan O'Neill, who holds an Irish passport.
Kevin Connolly says:

I should probably declare some sort of interest here as a dual Irish and British national myself.
Of course, anyone born in Northern Ireland has an absolute right to carry both passports.
Declan might be happy to know that this is one of the few questions where I can't see a downside as long as you are happy and comfortable carrying both passports.
Image copyright Getty Images

The Irish document means you continue to enjoy the benefits of EU citizenship, and the British passport will give you full rights in the UK at the same time.
Call it one of the clear joys of coming from Northern Ireland, alongside the rolling hills, rugged coastline and enjoyable breaks between the showers.
All you have to do is remember to carry the Irish passport when you are joining the EU citizens-only queue at the airport in future.
Is there a get-out clause for Article 50, asks Gillian Coates.
Norman Smith says:

I think the honest answer is you would have to be a legal eagle to answer this.
But my take on it is that legally it looks like once we trigger Article 50 we are locked in, and that is certainly how the European Parliament reads it.
And there is a view that if we were in this two-year process after triggering Article 50 and we wanted to get out of it, then ultimately that would be a decision for the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Thinkstock

However, in the real world I think it is likely to be rather different, whatever the legal protocol.
I think the truth is, if we were trundling along and decided it was all going to be catastrophic and we have got to pull up the handbrake pretty sharpish, a lot of other EU countries would be probably be laughing at us, but I think at the same time they would probably be quite pleased we weren't going.
So I think the short answer is: legally, it doesn't look so good if you want to get out of it, but politically, it probably can be done with the support of other European leaders.
Eric Degerland asks when UK passports are going to change.
Kevin Connolly says:

This takes us to the heart of an issue that lots of people really care about.
It will be a real and palpable sign of Brexit when there is a new UK passport without the words "European Union" on the front cover.
Sadly, the short answer is we don't really know when the change will come about.
Image copyright Getty Images

But we can say that the cheapest thing for the government to do would be to phase in the new passports as people's old ones expire.
So if you're looking forward to getting back that blue hard-back passport we had in the old days, you may have a long time to wait.
The BBC's Reality Check team answered some of your questions about Theresa May's plans for EU citizens living in the UK.
Will Irish citizens be exempt from this five-year residency requirement, and continue to be afforded equal treatment with UK nationals?
Yes, Irish citizens residing in the UK will not need to apply for settled status to protect their entitlements as the UK government is committed to protecting the Common Travel Area arrangements.
Would EU citizens still be able to move to the UK in the next two years until March 2019?
Yes, they would.
The UK is a member of the EU until it withdraws, so the freedom of movement rules will apply until then.
Why shouldn't British courts have full jurisdiction over the rights of EU citizens living in the UK?
Wasn't that the whole point of Brexit?
The UK government says the European Court of Justice will not have jurisdiction over EU citizens' rights.
The EU demands that it does.
This is an important sticking point in the Brexit negotiations.
How can a lifetime stay be guaranteed?
Could a future government change the law?
Once the UK leaves the EU, any future government will in principle be able to propose amendments to the rules and the UK Parliament would decide on the new law.
I plan to retire to France within the next two years and buy a property.
Will this be possible after Brexit?
You can buy property and retire anywhere in the world, subject to the rules of the country you are retiring in.
So, you'll be able to do that but we don't know what your exact rights will be until the UK and EU conclude the citizens' rights negotiations.
I'm an EU national living in the UK but my wife is from outside the EU.
Is her status going to change?
Your wife, as a family member of an eligible EU citizen who has been resident in the UK before we leave the EU, will also be eligible to apply for settled status with you, provided that she too meets the settlement criteria and has been in a genuine relationship with you while resident in the UK.
Theresa May has formed her new government after the Conservatives lost their majority in the general election.
The prime minister's room for manoeuvre in the reshuffle was limited when her party was left with 318 MPs and Labour had 262.
Here's what we know so far.
The list will be updated as new appointments are made.
Prime Minister - Theresa May

Image copyright Reuters

Theresa May stays as prime minister despite not achieving the mandate for Brexit she had called the election for.
The UK's second female PM took up the role after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the EU referendum result.
She had previously been home secretary for six years.
Theresa May: Full profile

Election 2017: Key points at-a-glance

First Secretary of State - Damian Green

Image copyright AFP

Damian Green has been promoted to a new role the prime minister did not have in her first cabinet - that of first secretary of state.
As the same time he also replaces Ben Gummer as minister for the Cabinet Office after Mr Gummer lost his seat in the election.
The move effectively makes the former work and pensions secretary, a friend and ally of Theresa May, her second in command.
It could see Mr Green standing in for Mrs May at PMQs when she is not available.
The role - which was previously held by George Osborne and, under Labour, Peter Mandelson - gives Mr Green seniority over other cabinet ministers.
Chancellor of the Exchequer - Philip Hammond

Image copyright PA

Philip Hammond remains as chancellor of the exchequer.
He was foreign secretary under David Cameron from 2014 to 2016, having previously served as defence secretary and transport secretary.
Mr Hammond, 61, is seen at Westminster as the ultimate safe pair of hands steering Britain's economy through the post-Brexit period ahead.
Sometimes mocked as "box office Phil" for what some see as his dull delivery, he forged a reputation in the shadow Treasury team as the Tories' public spending "axeman".
Foreign Secretary - Boris Johnson

Image copyright AFP

No change at the Foreign Office as Boris Johnson keeps his job.
Despite hints from some of the newspapers that Mr Johnson, 52, may turn his hand to trying to lead the party, he has categorically dismissed such claims.
Mr Johnson said that while the public would be wondering about the future of the current government, Mrs May had got the biggest Conservative mandate anyone had achieved for decades.
"I'm going to be backing her, and absolutely everybody I'm talking to is going to be backing her as well."
Home Secretary - Amber Rudd

Image copyright Reuters

Amber Rudd remains as home secretary despite only narrowly holding her seat as MP for Hastings and Rye.
During the election campaign, she stood in for the PM in the BBC's televised debate in May.
Ms Rudd was previously energy and climate change secretary, a position she held for just one year.
The former investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, aged 53, decided to enter politics in her 40s in order to get "a grip on her life".
Secretary of State for Exiting the EU - David Davis

Image copyright Reuters

David Davis keeps his job of secretary of state for exiting the European Union - or "Brexit secretary".
The role was created in July to take the lead in negotiating the UK's exit from the EU.
A veteran Eurosceptic, he has previously held the positions of Conservative party chairman and shadow deputy prime minister.
Between 2003 and 2008, he was the shadow home secretary under both Michael Howard and David Cameron.
Mr Davis, 68, lost to David Cameron in the 2005 Tory leadership contest.
Defence Secretary - Michael Fallon

Image copyright AFP

Michael Fallon has kept his job at the Ministry of Defence - a position the 65-year-old has held since 2014.
He was Conservative MP for Darlington from 1983 to 1992 - initially during Margaret Thatcher's time in Downing Street - and after leaving Parliament was later re-elected as MP for Sevenoaks in 1997.
A former Conservative Party deputy chairman, Mr Fallon has previously served as energy and business minister, and before that secretary of state for business and enterprise.
Secretary of State for International Trade - Liam Fox

Image copyright AFP

Liam Fox, 55, continues as the secretary of state for international trade.
He was made secretary of state for defence in 2010 but resigned in 2011 over allegations he had given a close friend, lobbyist Adam Werritty, access to the Ministry of Defence and allowed him to join official trips overseas.
Mr Fox stood in the leadership race against Theresa May but was eliminated in the first ballot after winning the support of just 16 MPs.
He told reporters he was "delighted" to keep the job he has held since July last year.
"It's now time for the whole of the Conservative party to rally behind the prime minister and get a government in the national interest."
Justice Secretary - David Lidington

Image copyright PA

Former Leader of the House of Commons David Lidington gets the job of justice secretary, replacing Liz Truss.
He had been Europe Minister since 2010 but moved across to aid the smooth running of the Commons in 2016.
The Cambridge history graduate and father-of-four has been MP for Aylesbury since 1992.
He previously worked for BP and mining firm Rio Tinto.
Leader of the House of Lords - Baroness Evans

Image copyright PA

Baroness Evans of Bowes Park keeps her job as the leader of the House of Lords.
When appointed in 2016, it was her first ministerial role since being ennobled by David Cameron in 2014.
She attended London's Henrietta Barnett School and Cambridge University before becoming deputy director of the Conservative research department, deputy director of the Policy Exchange think-tank and chief operating officer of the New Schools Network - the organisation which ran Michael Gove's free schools programme.
Health Secretary - Jeremy Hunt

Image copyright Reuters

Jeremy Hunt remains in his post despite the problems within the NHS.
He took over the health portfolio following a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, and at the time described the appointment as the "biggest privilege of my life".
But in a tweet he admitted there were "challenges ahead, but also huge opportunities to make our NHS even better".
Last year, Mr Hunt was locked in a battle with the British Medical Association over a new contract for junior doctors, which led to a series of strikes.
Education Secretary - Justine Greening

Image copyright PA

Justine Greening has kept her roles as education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
She is part of the most diverse Parliament yet as she openly defines herself as a lesbian.
At London Pride in 2016, the 48-year-old announced in a tweet she was in a same-sex relationship, saying "I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you're better off out!".
Ms Greening replaced Nicky Morgan at education in 2016, leaving her international development secretary post, which she was promoted to in 2011.
She has been MP for Putney since 2005.
Transport Secretary - Chris Grayling

Image copyright Reuters

Chris Grayling remains as transport secretary in Theresa May's cabinet.
The former Leader of the House has been dealing with Southern Rail's disrupted services, the question of Heathrow's third runway and the high speed rail link, HS2.
He also served as shadow transport secretary from December 2005 to 2007.
Culture Secretary - Karen Bradley

Image copyright Getty Images

Karen Bradley has kept her role as Culture, Media and Sport Secretary.
She had been working with Theresa May as a Home Office minister since 2014.
She was first elected MP for Staffordshire Moorlands in May 2010.
Environment Secretary - Michael Gove

Image copyright EPA

Michael Gove has made a comeback, with the prime minister bringing him back into cabinet and appointing him environment secretary.
In the 2016 reshuffle he was sacked as justice secretary and before that he served under David Cameron as education secretary and chief whip in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Despite campaigning alongside Boris Johnson for Brexit, he withdrew his support for Mr Johnson to be Conservative leader and prime minister, choosing instead to stand himself.
He was eliminated in the final round of voting by MPs, coming third.
Mr Gove's surprise move to stand for the leadership effectively dashed his colleague's hopes of winning and prompted Mr Johnson's withdrawal from the contest.
Work and Pensions Secretary - David Gauke

Image copyright AFP

A sideways step for David Gauke, with the PM appointing him as the new work and pensions secretary.
He was previously the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who attends cabinet but does not have a ministerial role.
Mr Gauke has been the MP for Hertfordshire South West since 2005.
He is a qualified solicitor and worked for a leading City firm until he was elected.
Communities Secretary - Sajid Javid

Image copyright AFP

Sajid Javid keeps his job as secretary of the department for communities and local government.
He held this position in 2014 before being appointed to business secretary a year later.
A former managing director of Deutsche Bank, Mr Javid has been MP for Bromsgrove in Worcestershire since 2010.
He stood on a "joint ticket" with Stephen Crabb for the leadership election, hoping to be chancellor if Mr Crabb had become PM.
Northern Ireland Secretary - James Brokenshire

Image copyright PA

James Brokenshire continues as the Northern Ireland Secretary.
He previously worked with the PM at the Home Office, where he was immigration minister.
From 2011 to 2015, he served as security minister at the Home Office with responsibility for domestic national security and counter-terrorism.
This included supporting the home secretary with oversight of the work of MI5 and the national police counter-terrorism network.
Mr Brokenshire's responsibilities also included the government's counter-terrorism strategy and he was part of the prime minister's "extremism taskforce".
He also led negotiations with the Jordanian government to secure the deportation of the radical cleric Abu Qatada.
Welsh Secretary - Alun Cairns

Image copyright PA

Alun Cairns, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, remains in his cabinet role as secretary of state for Wales.
The 46-year-old, who was born in Swansea and is a graduate of the University of Wales, Newport, was elected in 2010.
He worked in banking for a decade before his election to the Welsh Assembly.
Scottish Secretary - David Mundell

Image copyright Reuters

David Mundell will continue as secretary of state for Scotland.
He is one of 13 Scottish Conservatives to be in Parliament after this snap election.
Former prime minister David Cameron first appointed Mr Mundell to the post when he held his Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale seat for the third consecutive election in 2015.
In January 2015, Mr Mundell became the first openly-gay Conservative cabinet secretary.
Conservative Party chairman and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster - Patrick McLoughlin

Image copyright AFP

Patrick McLoughlin remains as the Conservative Party chairman and chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He left his role as transport secretary in 2016 but has been an MP since 1986.
The former miner also served as chief whip after being appointed to the role in David Cameron's first cabinet.
Business and Energy Secretary - Greg Clark

Image copyright PA

Greg Clark keeps his job as secretary of state of business, energy and industrial strategy.
The role, when it was created by Labour's Gordon Brown, was originally called the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Last year, it was merged into the new department and lost the "climate change" part of its name.
Environmentalists immediately expressed concern that the reshaping of departments showed the government was downgrading climate change as a priority.
International Development Secretary - Priti Patel

Image copyright Reuters

Priti Patel remains as International Development Secretary.
She was promoted from her role as employment minister, which she held for a year, in 2016.
Ms Patel became MP for Witham in 2010 and joined the front bench as a Treasury minister in 2014.
She is no stranger to controversy, having previously advocated bringing back the death penalty and was accused of "divide and rule politics" during the referendum campaign for claiming that "biased" immigration policy prevents curry chefs from outside the EU from working in the UK.
On her appointment, she immediately faced calls to guarantee the UK's legal commitment to spending 0.7% of GDP on overseas aid.
In other appointments:
Video

Watch the full interview with Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg at the 2017 Labour Party conference.
Subjects covered included the the planned return of PFI contracts "in-house" and the party's scenario-planning for any run on the pound if they get into power.
Video

The Conservative government is guilty of "conscious cruelty" says Ken Loach, adding it was "one of the harshest governments this country has seen".
Challenged on the phrase by Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn, the film-maker said: "Absolutely - I know what they have done."
They were speaking at the Labour Party conference in Brighton, when Mr Loach was asked why young people were attracted to Jeremy Corbyn's policies.
How Labour's anti-Semitism row unfolded

What might have been no more than a little local difficulty has become the biggest crisis in Mr Corbyn's leadership.
Video

Some Labour MPs are making "absolute mischief" over claims of anti-Semitism in the party, in a bid to destabilise Jeremy Corbyn because of his backing for Palestinians, claims Ken Loach.
The film-maker was suspicious of the "false stories of anti-Semitism", which had surfaced since Mr Corbyn became leader.
He told Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn that: "All history is our common heritage to discuss and analyse.
The founding of the state of Israel, for example, based on ethnic cleansing is there for us all to discuss."
Video

Britain has been warned that failure to come up with a solution to the UK-Ireland border could see any Brexit deal derailed, by a member of the European Parliament Brexit steering group.
Belgian MEP Philippe Lamberts accused the UK government of wanting to have its cake and eat it.
He said Britain could not have it both ways over wanting to leave the customs union while also maintaining no border between Northern Ireland the rest of the EU.
He told Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn: "I fail to see how we can reconcile.
Sometimes I think this might be the factor that derails the Brexit negotiations, even more than money."
Video

Labour Party delegates were asked which of US President Donald Trump or North Korean leader Kim Jong-un was the bigger threat to world peace, after their recent war of words over nuclear weapons.
Daily Politics reporter Ellie Price took her mood box, an unscientific test with balls and a box, to Brighton to hear what delegates at the conference thought.
Shadow minister for peace and disarmament on Labour views about Trump

More mood box films from the 2017 party conferences
President Trump late Monday tweeted his support for Sen. Luther Strange in the hotly contested Alabama Republican runoff for U.S. Senate, in a race that has pitted the president against his former strategist, Steve Bannon.
The runoff is set for Tuesday.
Vice President Mike Pence campaigned for Strange in Birmingham while Bannon spoke at a Moore rally at the coast.
Taking the stage to prolonged applause, Bannon said Alabama can show the world "that this populist, nationalist, conservative movement is on the rise."
"A vote for Roy Moore is a vote for Donald J. Trump," Bannon said.
Bannon lashed out at negative ads funded by allies of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Bannon said Republican "elites" had put millions of dollars into the Alabama race "to destroy a man."
Its very simple, Bannon told Fox News Hannity.
This election is $30 million being spent by Mitch McConnell and that crew of corrupt and incompetent politicians and consultants.
They raised $30 million in outside money to destroy Judge Moore.
Bannon mentioned that conservative radio hosts Mark Levin, Laura Ingram and Michael Savage have all voice support for Moore.
Bannon, who was in Alabama during the interview, said he was not there to defy Trump, rather to support his agenda.
Wearing a white cowboy hat and a black leather vest, Moore repeated the conservative Christian themes that he has used his entire public career, quoting Bible passages and Colonial leaders at length.
"All of Washington is watching to see what Alabama does tomorrow," Moore said.
Strange, Alabama's former attorney general, was appointed to the seat previously held by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions in February.
Moore is the state's Alabama's chief justice, but was twice removed from that office because of stands for the public display of the Ten Commandments and against gay marriage.
Propelled by his support from evangelical voters, Moore led Strange by about 25,000 votes in the crowded August primary and runoff polls have shown him leading, or in a dead heat with, Strange.
Strange looked to help from the White House to try to avoid another second-place finish Tuesday

Trump, who held a rally Friday in Huntsville for Strange, continued his efforts Monday, calling a popular Alabama radio show to campaign.
Trump predicted that Moore, whom he mistakenly called "Ray," would have a "hard time" in the December election against Democrat Doug Jones.
"Luther Strange is going to be a great senator.
He already has, and he has already helped me," Trump said on the "Rick & Bubba" radio show.
Walking into the humid hangar to hear Pence, 57-year-old Randy Beasley of Springville said he had been undecided in the race but was swayed to vote for Strange because of his backing from the National Rifle Association.
Beasley said he also had concerns that the twice-ousted chief justice "might have more of a negative image for the state."
Although Trump has endorsed Luther Strange, many in the crowd at the Moore rally wore Trump T-shirts or "Make America Great Again" hats.
Chu Green, 71, of Mobile said she arrived five hours early to snag a front row spot just feet from the speaker's microphone.
She held up a sign reading: "Mr. President and Mr. V.P.
I love you but you are wrong!
America needs Judge Moore."
"It's how I feel in my heart," Green said.
"I think (Trump) knows he made a mistake.
He had an obligation to Strange."
Robert Caleb Engle, 22, did what few would under the circumstances.
Though unarmed, he confronted a gunman who randomly opened fire during Sunday services at Nashville's Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
As the two struggled, the gunman pistol-whipped Engle, then wounded himself in the chest, giving time for Engle, who has a right to carry permit, to run outside and fetch his own weapon.
He came back to hold the suspect at bay, potentially sparing further carnage.
"What if he had pulled the trigger?"
Engle's father, James, later told a reporter.
"Because he had the gun pointed at him.
I'm proud of him."
It is unclear whether the suspect, 25-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson, was a legal gun owner.
He was troubled, a refugee from Sudans civil war in the mid-1990's in which two million were killed, and during which some 40,000 boys, the so-called "Lost Boys" of Sudan, were abandoned or orphaned, and who were forced to trek over 100 miles to escape almost certain death.
Last June, Samson reportedly texted his father "...
I have a gun to my head, have a nice F------ life."
About 16.4 million Americans, like Engle, have the right to carry firearms publicly.
John Lott, author of "More Guns, Less Crime," says that fact contributes to lower crime rates.
"The states that have had the biggest increase in concealed carry permits have had the biggest relative drops in violent crime and murder, Lott told Fox News.
"For each additional percent increase that you have in concealed carry permits, you have about 1 half percent drop in murder rates."
But not everyone agrees with Lott.
A 2004 National Academy of Sciences study found no credible evidence that the passage of right-to-carry laws decreases or increases violent crime."
A more recent paper by Stanford University Law Professor John Donohue finds concealed carry, "substantially elevates violent crime rates, but seems to have no impact on property crime and murder rates."
"It does seem to be the case that if you allow anyone to carry a concealed weapon, you're going to pay a higher price for increased violent crime," Donohue told Fox News.
While that debate continues, in Congress momentum is building for the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017.
It has 212 co-sponsors in the House and would allow an eligible person to carry a concealed handgun in any state where its legal.
Polls closed Tuesday in Alabamas GOP Senate primary runoff between Sen. Luther Strange and former state Chief Justice Roy Moore, a race that has pitted President Donald Trump against some of his most loyal supporters, including former chief strategist Steve Bannon, former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin and a slew of conservative members of the House of Representatives.
Despite high-level interest in the race, officials projected that only between 12 and 15 percent of eligible voters would cast a ballot.
That is widely considered to be a positive sign for Moore, who led Strange by about 25,000 votes in last months primary but failed to get the outright majority required to avoid the runoff.
Turnout for the August primary, which was fought between 10 Republican candidates, was just 17 percent.
The winner of the runoff will become the favorite in December's general election against Democrat Doug Jones, a lawyer and former U.S. attorney during President Bill Clinton's administration.
Jones is perhaps best known for prosecuting Ku Klux Klansmen responsible for killing four black girls in the 1963 bombing of a Birmingham church.
The winner of that race will complete the Senate term started by Attorney General Jeff Sessions and be up for re-election in 2020.
Polls have consistently shown Strange trailing Moore and the incumbent has looked to Washington in the hope of closing the gap.
Trump, popular with Republicans in Alabama, flew to Huntsville on Friday for a campaign rally for Strange to try to inject a jolt of energize into his campaign.
During the rally in Huntsville, the president portrayed Strange as loyal to him and said he appreciated how Strange agreed to vote for ObamaCare replacement legislation this summer without asking any favors from him.
However, Trumps endorsement was overshadowed nationally by his attack on NFL players who kneel during the National Anthem prior to games.
Trump supported Strange with a Tweet sent before voting began Tuesday morning: "Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job - vote for 'Big Luther.'"
Pence also flew to Birmingham on Monday evening to campaign for Strange.
"Luther Strange is a real conservative.
He's a leader and a real friend to President Trump.
I got to tell you, Big Luther has been making a big difference in Washington," Pence said before exiting the stage to the tune of "Sweet Home Alabama."
A super PAC aligned with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., Kentucky has also pumped millions of dollars into the race on behalf of Strange  a move that may play into Moores pitch as the anti-establishment candidate.
"Mitch McConnell needs to be replaced and your vote tomorrow may determine that," Moore said Monday at a Fairhope rally attended by Bannon, Brexit leader Nigel Farage, and "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson.
Bannon told the crowd that Alabama can show the world "that this populist, nationalist, conservative movement is on the rise."
"A vote for Roy Moore is a vote for Donald J. Trump," Bannon said.
Wearing a white cowboy hat and leather vest at the rally Monday night, Moore repeated the conservative Christian themes he has used his entire public career.
He also lashed out at attack ads run against him in the race, including one suggesting he was weak on gun rights.
"I believe in the Second Amendment," Moore said, pulling a handgun from his pocket.
Moore, known in Alabama as the "Ten Commandments Judge," has a colorful political history that has both fueled and complicated his rise.
Moore first received national attention in the 1990s as a county judge when he hung a wooden Ten Commandments plaque on the wall of his courtroom.
The ACLU filed a lawsuit against him.
Benefiting from his popularity after the episode, Moore then ran and won a race for chief justice of the states Supreme Court in 2000.
But he was ousted after refusing to remove a 5,280-pound granite Ten Commandments monument from the rotunda of the state judicial building.
Moore resurrected his political career in 2012, when he was elected chief justice again.
But his second tenure was short-lived: in 2016, Moore was suspended as chief justice after he directed probate judges not to issue marriage certificates to gay couples.
Strange, the former attorney general in Alabama, was temporarily appointed to the seat in April by then-Gov.
Robert Bentley, who has since resigned in disgrace.
Opponents have used the appointment against Strange, accusing Bentley of naming him to the seat so he could install someone who might be more sympathetic to him in the state attorney generals office.
On the outskirts of Montgomery, 76-year-old Air Force retiree John Lauer said Trump's endorsement swayed him to vote for Strange on Tuesday.
"I voted for Strange.
I'm a Trump voter.
Either one is going to basically do the Trump agenda, but since Trump came out for Luther, I voted for Luther," said Lauer said.
Merlene Bohannon, a widow with three grown children, said she had planned to vote for Strange until seeing Bannon stump for Moore on Fox News on Monday night.
"Steve Bannon and God spoke to me, and this morning when I went in I voted for Moore," said Bohannon, 74.
Fox News' Alex Pappas and the Associated Press contributed to this report.
The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) will step down at the end of this month, Fox News confirmed Tuesday.
Chuck Rosenberg will leave his position effective Oct. 1, a DEA source told Fox.
A reason for his departure was not given.
Rosenberg's resignation was first reported by The New York Times, which claimed that he was "disillusioned" with President Donald Trump.
According to the paper, Rosenberg is a close confidant of former FBI Director James Comey, whose dismissal by Trump in May is the focal point of an ongoing investigation into alleged collaboration between Trump's campaign and Russian officials.
The Times also reported that Rosenberg sent an email to all DEA employees decrying comments Trump made in July about police treatment of suspects.
"When you see these thugs being thrown into the back of a paddy wagon  you just see them thrown in, rough," Trump told an audience of law enforcement officers in Suffolk County, N.Y., "I said, 'Please don't be too nice.'"
"We must earn and keep the public trust and continue to hold ourselves to the very highest standards," Rosenberg wrote at the time.
"Ours is an honorable profession and, so, we will always act honorably."
Fox News' Jake Gibson contributed to this report.
Weeks after a veterans' health initiative received $2.1 billion in emergency funding, the Trump administration says the private-sector Veterans Choice health care program may need additional money as early as December to avoid a disruption of care for hundreds of thousands of veterans.
The Department of Veterans Affairs said in a statement Tuesday that it hoped to move quickly on a proposed long-term legislative fix that would give veterans even wider access to private doctors.
The proposal, under review by the White House Office of Management and Budget, would seek money to keep Choice running for much of next year as VA implements wider changes.
On Capitol Hill, the House Veterans Affairs Committee was already anticipating that the emergency funding approved in August may not last the full six months, according to spokespeople for both Republican and Democratic members on the panel.
They cited the VA's past problems in estimating Choice program cost.
That committee and the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee said they were closely monitoring the situation.
"It's disheartening," said Carlos Fuentes, legislative director of Veterans of Foreign Wars, citing his group's continuing conversations with VA about Choice funding.
"Imagine if a veteran has to cease chemotherapy treatment during Christmas."
Garry Augustine, executive director of Disabled American Veterans' Washington headquarters, said recent discussions with VA also gave him little confidence.
"It's always a concern," Augustine said.
"Legislative action needs to be done sooner rather than later."
In its statement to The Associated Press, VA said it could not say for certain when Choice funds would be depleted, but acknowledged that it could be as early as December or as late as March.
Earlier this year, the VA began limiting referrals to outside doctors as money began to run low and veterans reported delays in care.
The VA proposal for a long-term fix is expected to be released in the coming weeks.
"We have a long agenda, a lot more to do," VA Secretary David Shulkin told veterans last week at an event near Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
"This fall, our major legislative focus is getting the Choice program working right."
The latest funding woes come amid political disagreement over the future direction of VA and its troubled Choice program, which was passed by Congress in 2014 in response to a wait-time scandal at the Phoenix VA medical center that spread nationwide.
Some veterans died while waiting months for appointments as VA employees manipulated records to hide delays.
The controversy spurred Congress to establish Choice as a pilot program designed to relieve pressure at VA hospitals.
Choice currently allows veterans to receive outside care if they must wait 30 days or more for an appointment or drive more than 40 miles to a VA facility.
But the program has encountered long delays of its own.
In a sign of a political divide, the left-leaning VoteVets ran a $400,000 ad campaign earlier this month in 13 states that warned viewers, "Don't let Trump privatize my VA." The American Federation of Government Employees has been staging rallies to bring attention to VA job vacancies left unfilled.
The VA said it remains committed to filling VA positions even as it finalizes plans to revamp Choice.
VA said it had about 34,000 vacancies, which they attributed in part to a shortage of health professionals.
Legislative proposals to fix VA have run the gamut, including one backed by the conservative Concerned Veterans for America that would give veterans almost complete freedom to see an outside doctor.
Another plan could create a presidential commission to review closing some VA medical centers.
"Congress can either double-down on the failed VA policies of the past or they can go in a different direction and empower veterans with more choice over their health care," said Dan Caldwell, policy director of Concerned Veterans for America.
During the presidential campaign, Trump repeatedly pledged to fix the VA by bringing accountability and expanding access to private doctors, criticizing the department as "the most corrupt."
At an Ohio event in July, Trump promised to triple the number of veterans "seeing the doctor of their choice."
More than 30 percent of VA appointments are made in the private sector.
Carrie Farmer, senior policy researcher for the RAND Corp., said the Choice debate raises broader questions about the role of government-run health care in treating veterans.
To many former troops, the VA health system is a "medical home" where patients feel more understood by doctors specially trained to treat battlefield injury, such as post-traumatic stress disorder.
Significantly expanding Choice could upend that government role as caretaker, she said.
"The big question is ultimately who will be responsible for our veterans' care?"
Farmer said.
The Washington Post has made a correction to an explosive cover story that undermines the entire premise of Mondays front-page article headlined, "Obama sought to prod Facebook on Russia role."
The problem, according to a Facebook executive, is that when Obama reached out to the social media giant in 2016 to discuss political disinformation spreading on the site, he didnt actually call out Russia  essentially making the Posts headline misleading and inaccurate.
Or, as President Trump would call it, fake news.
As first reported by Axios, the Post added significant information to the digital version of the story with the disclaimer, This story has been updated with an additional response from Facebook.
The response from Facebook that didnt make the papers print edition is vital and changed the story enough that the word Russia was removed from the updated headline.
The story detailed how then-President Obama gave Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg a wake-up call regarding fake news spreading on his social media platform.
After reporting that Obama made a personal appeal to Zuckerberg to take the threat of fake news and political disinformation seriously," the paper has added that Obama did not single out Russia specifically."
The story reported that Obama and his top aides quietly agonized on how to respond to Russias brazen intervention on behalf of the Donald Trump campaign without making matters worse.
The paper also added a statement from Facebooks vice president of communications, Elliot Schrage, which it received after the front-page story was published.
Schrage told the Post that Obamas talk with Zuckerberg was about misinformation and false news and did not include any references to possible foreign interference or suggestions about confronting threats to Facebook.
The initial correction was unclear and only mentioned that it added Schrages statement, but this was eventually corrected by the papers editorial staff.
When we updated the story with Facebooks additional response, we also added the text did not single out Russia specifically to foreshadow the Schrage statement, which appears further down in the story.
When we added that clause we should have made the attribution clear and weve modified the line to do so.
Heres how it now appears: although Facebook representatives say the president did not single out Russia specifically, a Washington Post spokeswoman told Fox News.
The story goes on to detail a 16-month journey in which [Facebook] came to terms with an unanticipated foreign attack on the U.S. political system, that is based on interviews with more than a dozen people involved.
The Washington Post did not immediately respond when asked if a correction will be made in the print version of the paper.
A federal appeals court on Tuesday overturned the conviction of former New York state Senate leader Dean Skelos, dealing another blow to ex-U.S. attorney Preet Bharara's prosecutorial record.
Bharara was fired by President Trump earlier this year and has since emerged as a prominent Trump critic.
During his time in office, he launched a high-profile anti-corruption campaign targeting Skelos and others.
But the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals threw out the conviction of Skelos and his son, granting new trials.
The court found jurors in the case were wrongly instructed, in light of a Supreme Court decision following their 2015 convictions.
The high court ruling narrowed the definition of a corrupt act.
Because we cannot conclude that the [instruction] error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, we are obliged to vacate the convictions, the court wrote.
The decision came less than three months after the court reversed former state Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's separate corruption conviction on the same grounds.
Skelos is a Republican, Silver a Democrat.
Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon Kim said that they are disappointed in the decision and plan to weigh their appellate options.
We look forward to a prompt retrial where we will have another opportunity to present the overwhelming evidence of Dean Skelos and Adam Skeloss guilt and again give the public the justice it deserves, Kim said in a statement.
Cleaning up corruption is never easy, and that is certainly true for corruption in New York State government.
He added: But we are committed as ever to doing everything we can to keep our government honest.
That is what we will do in this prosecution as well.
The decision Tuesday is a major setback for Bharara, who was fired by Trump in March.
He has since carved out a post-office career as a commentator, while regularly criticizing Trump's policies and comments on Twitter.
Bharara tweeted that the ruling was "not unexpected, but still disappointing, given there was more than enough evidence to convict as the appeals court itself found."
He did not respond to Fox News request for comment.
Skelos and his son, Adam, were convicted of federal extortion charges in 2015.
The elder Skelos was accused of strong-arming three companies with a stake in state legislationa major real estate developer, an environmental technology company and a medical malpractice insurerinto giving work to a son prosecutors portrayed as an underachieving only child whose sense of entitlement knew no bounds.
The government said at the time that the businesses provided the younger Skelos with about $300,000 and other benefits.
Dean Skelos was sentenced to five years in prison, and his son was given six-and-a-half years.
Since 2000, more than 30 New York state lawmakers have left office over allegations of criminal or ethical violations, and more than a dozen have been convicted of those charges.
Fox News' Brooke Singman and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
House Republicans on Tuesday formally renewed their call for a second special counsel to probe 2016 controversies involving Hillary Clinton and the Obama administration  following allegations that former FBI director James Comey drafted an exoneration statement for Clinton weeks before interviewing her.
Republicans on the House Judiciary Committee, who first called for a second special counsel's appointment in July, cited several factors in a letter Tuesday to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and his deputy, Rod Rosenstein.
In this case, it appears that Director Comey and other senior Justice Department and government officials may have pre-judged the matter before all the facts were known, thereby ensuring former Secretary Clinton would not be charged for her criminal activity, they wrote.
Foremost was the allegation  which emerged in transcripts of FBI staffer interviews conducted by the Office of Special Counsel  that the former FBI boss drafted a statement clearing Clinton in her personal email case weeks before interviewing her and making his public recommendation against criminal charges.
The claim has prompted some lawmakers to call for Comey to return to Capitol Hill to resolve discrepancies in his past statements.
GRAHAM WANTS TO HAUL BACK COMEY TO TESTIFY ON CLINTON EMAIL CASE, SAYS 'I SMELL A RAT'

The letter specifically cited an exchange that Rep. John Ratcliffe, R-Texas, had at a hearing last year with Comey.
At the time, Ratcliffe asked Comey whether he made the decision not to recommend criminal charges against Clinton before or after she was interviewed by the FBI in early July.
After, Comey said.
In Tuesdays letter, Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., and other GOP lawmakers said the latest Comey allegations suggest the decision had already been made prior to the interview of Clinton and other key witnesses.
The letter also complained that top Clinton associates received immunity for cooperation while also being allowed to attend the FBIs Clinton interview.
That, coupled with the revelation that the Director had already drafted an exoneration statement, strongly suggests that the interview was a mere formality, and that the Director had already decided the case would be closed, they wrote.
Further, they complained that Comey did not record interviews with Clinton and other close associates, despite Justice Department policy encouraging the practice.
This is truly inexplicable, given that the case was of keen national interest and importance, they wrote, adding: It only reinforces the sense that our nations top law enforcement officials conspired to sweep the Clinton matter under the rug, and that there is, truly, one system for the powerful and politically well-connected, and another for everyone else.
The lawmakers want an entirely separate special counsel probe from the one Robert Mueller is leading into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and possible coordination with Trump associates.
The crux of their argument is that numerous unanswered questions remain from the 2016 campaign cycle that have been pushed aside amid the intense Russia focus.
The renewed focus on the Clinton email case, though, comes as Trump associates also are facing scrutiny over reports that they used private email to discuss White House issues.
NEW PRESSURE ON COMEY TO RETURN TO CAPITOL HILL, AS WHITE HOUSE ACCUSES HIM OF 'FALSE TESTIMONY'

During his more recent testimony in June before the Senate Intelligence Committee, Comey said that his decision to announce the results of the Clinton email investigation in July 2016 was influenced by then-Attorney General Loretta Lynchs infamous meeting days earlier on an Arizona tarmac with former President Bill Clinton.
Yes, in an ultimately conclusive way, that was the thing that capped it for me  that I had to do something separately to protect the credibility of the investigation, Comey said.
Comey, whom Trump fired in May amid tensions over the Russia probe, also testified there were other things that contributed to his decision to go public, including Lynch allegedly urging him to refer to the email probe as a matter and not an investigation.
The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., announced Tuesday that he will leave the Senate when his term expires next year, and will not seek re-election.
After much thought, consideration and family discussion over the past year, Elizabeth and I have decided that I will leave the United States Senate when my term expires at the end of 2018, Corker said in a statement Tuesday.
During his 2006 Senate election, Corker said he noted that he couldnt imagine serving for more than two termsthat time will expire in November 2018.
Understandably, as we have gained influence, that decision has become more difficult, Corker said.
But I have always been drawn to the citizen legislator model, and while I realize it is not for everyone, I believe with the kind of service I provide, it is the right one for me.
Corker said that he believes the most important public service he has to offer could well occur over the next 15 months of his term.
I want to be able to do that as thoughtfully and independently as I did the first 10 years and nine months of my Senate career, Corker said.
Serving the people of Tennessee in this capacity has been the greatest privilege in my life.
Corker spent the month of August traveling across his district, and said he was reminded that Tennesseans lived in a unique place full of people who care deeply about the direction of our country.
I know that we will continue to have an impact for the remainder of our term, and I look forward to finding other ways to make a difference in the future, Corker said, thanking his extraordinary staff and his family.
Nothing I have done would have been possible without their love and support, Corker said.
Sen. Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., said Corkers absence will leave a big hole in the Senate.
Even when hes been investigating smugglers tunnels near the Gaza strip, talking to foreign leaders, or giving advice to President Trump, Bob has never let his feet leave the ground in Tennessee, Alexander said in a statement.
His absence will leave a big hole in the United States Senate, but I know hes carefully weighed his decision, and Im looking forward to seeing what he tackles next.
As for 2018 hopefuls, Tennessee conservative activist Andy Ogles announced last week that he would run for the Senate seat, along with Fox Sports analyst Clay Travis, who has said he has been toying with the idea of running.
The two Republican Alabama Senate candidates face off today in what is one of the first tests of President Donald Trumps influence on elections.
Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to finish out Jeff Sessions term when he was tapped as the U.S. attorney general, faces the conservative former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore Tuesday in a runoff.
Both Trump and Vice President Mike Pence visited Alabama over the past week to campaign for Strange.
Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon pitted himself against Trump in the race as he backed Moore and campaigned for him on the eve of the election.
In Alabama Monday night, Bannon also praised Trump as one of the most courageous individuals in an apparent move to alleviate fears Trumps own base may have over siding with a different candidate.
Moore also received the support of Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson, Brexit leader Nigel Farage and former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin.
Despite having Trumps support, being buoyed by millions of dollars in advertising by a super political action committee tied to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Moores past controversies, Strange was unable to avoid a runoff during a primary last month and trails in the polls.
The special general election is slated for Dec. 12.
Heres a look at the candidates.
Roy Moore

Called the Ayatollah of Alabama by critics who believe he too closely marries his political and judicial responsibilities with religion, Judge Roy Moore emerged as the leader of the Republicans vying for the Senate seat.
Known as the Ten Commandments Judge, Moore has garnered the support of many anti-establishment conservatives, including Breitbart executive and former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon.
The populist Breitbart News website has also written favorably about Moore, seemingly breaking from Trump.
Despite his popularity, Moore is mired in controversy.
He was twice removed from Alabamas Supreme Court.
The first time, he was removed when he refused to move a boulder-sized Ten Commandments monument from the statehouse; he was permanently suspended in 2016 after he instructed probate judges to deny marriage licenses to gay people.
LUTHER STRANGE SAYS TRUMPS NFL COMMENTS MAY SECURE HIS ALABAMA SEAT

Moore used those controversies to boost his support among conservative evangelicals while campaigning, and he told Republican voters that those cases were akin to battle scars for standing up for what he believes.
On his campaign website, Moore said he was suspended for upholding the sanctity of marriage as between one man and one woman.
Moore was also called racially insensitive when he used dated terms to seemingly describe Asian people and Native Americans during a recent campaign speech.
Now we have blacks and white fighting, reds and yellows fighting, Democrats and Republicans fighting, men and women fighting.
Whats going to unite us?
Whats going to bring us back together?
A president?
A Congress?
No, its going to be God, he said.
He also suggested the 9/11 terrorist attacks were a punishment from God and suggested that God was upset with the U.S. because we legitimize sodomy and legitimize abortion," CNN reported.
Video

At his rally on the eve of the election, Moore said all of Washington is waiting to see what Alabama does.
Wearing a white cowboy hat, Moore doubled down on his support of the Second Amendment and brandished a handgun during the event.
STRANGE: ROY MOORE HAS NO RECORD OF CONSERVATIVE ACCOMPLISHMENT

Many supporters in the crowd wore the iconic red Make America Great Again hats from Trumps campaign or other pro-Trump clothing.
Chu Green, of Mobile, Ala., told the Associated Press that she thinks Trump knows he made a mistake in endorsing Strange.
At Moores rally, she held a sign that said Mr. President and Mr. V.P.
I love you but you are wrong!
America needs Judge Moore, according to the Associated Press.
Luther Strange

Despite being backed by GOP senators and Trump, Luther Strange failed to avoid a runoff and came in second to Judge Roy Moore.
Ahead of Tuesdays election, Strange is still behind Moore.
Trump was in Alabama Friday to campaign for Strange  sometimes called Big Luther because of his 6-foot-9-inch frame.
In his wide-ranging speech  which touched on the North Korea conflict and NFL players who protest during the national anthem  Trump said Strange would defend your interests, fight for your values and always put America first.
The president has tweeted his support of Strange multiple times, including on Tuesday morning.
Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job  vote today for Big Luther, Trump said.
BANNON MAKES BEST PITCH FOR ROY MOORE FOR ALABAMA SENATE

Strange, who was tapped by Alabamas former governor to finish out Sessions term, was the states attorney general and had joined a lawsuit against the Obama administration that challenged the former presidents executive order on amnesty for undocumented immigrants.
Aside from the president, Strange also racked up endorsements from the National Rifle Association of America, National Right to Life and the Alabama Farmers Federation.
Although a favorite of the establishment, Stranges struggles raised concerns among GOP members of Congress, even if he does ultimately survive the runoff.
"There are probably a number of incumbents on both sides of the aisle who should take notice of another demonstration that voters still want change," Greg Strimple, a Republican pollster for a political action committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, told the Associated Press.
"The takeaway is that Washington is very unpopular," Strimple said, and that overrides even Trump's endorsement, because he cannot simply "transfer his brand" to candidates, like the lobbyist-turned-politician Strange, who fail to establish their own outsider credentials.
Doug Jones

A former U.S. attorney during the Clinton administration, Jones beat out seven other Democrats to secure the partys nomination.
Jones has been openly critical of Trump  particularly when it comes to Trumps wish to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate change agreement  and picked up key endorsements from liberal lawmakers.
BEN CARSON PRAISES ROY MOORE IN APPARENT BREAK FROM TRUMP

Former Vice President Joe Biden endorsed Jones in the primary and lent his voice to robocalls made to voters.
Doug Jones will make a great U.S. senator so please make sure you get out and vote on Tuesday  and Im hoping youll vote for my friend, Doug Jones, Biden said.
Jones was also endorsed by Reps. John Lewis, D-Ga., Cedric Richmond, D-La., and Terri Sewell, D-Ala.
While a Republican candidate is widely expected to win the seat, Alabama Democrats are reportedly feeling optimistic about their candidate.
Jones is perhaps best known for successfully prosecuting two members of the Ku Klux Klan accused of bombing a Birmingham church in 1963 that killed four little girls.
His campaign website touts his progressive ideals and plans for health care reform and protecting Planned Parenthood.
The shenanigans around the 2016 campaign must be pushed aside and full equality for women made the law and the norm in America, Jones said on his website.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
"Winning breeds winning," taught legendary basketball coach John Wooden.
As they turn now to tax reform, Republicans in Washington hope the opposite isn't also true.
In recent days, President Donald Trump and GOP leaders have suffered another health-care defeat in slow motion.
First one, then a second, and, finally, a decisive third Republican senator announced opposition to the latest attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare.
That made it no surprise Tuesday when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced there would be no floor vote on the so-called Graham-Cassidy plan to replace Obamacare with federal health care block grants.
Yet it repeated the pain of earlier failures that have left Trump and the GOP rank-and-file grousing about lawmakers' inability to fulfill their promises.
Do those failure weaken prospects for tax reform proposals the Trump administration had hoped would already have be signed into law by now?
Some Republicans fear the answer is yes.
"Health failures hurt the tax effort," said conservative tax expert Alan Cole, until recently an analyst at the Tax Foundation.
"Recent defections," he explained, "have reduced the expectation that the GOP will work together."
Republicans aim to pass tax reform through the same special budget rules they used on health care, which preclude a filibuster by Senate Democrats.
That only works if the 52-member GOP caucus can achieve consensus among at least 50 senators, allowing Vice President Mike Pence to break a tie if necessary.
Yet as Trump and GOP leaders prepare to offer some tax plan details Wednesday, Republicans have not reached consensus on key issues.
Those include the size and scope of the plan, whether it can increase the deficit or not, how low the rate on businesses can go, and whether taxes can be reduced for wealthy Americans.
Internal GOP disagreements have lately grown more pronounced, not less.
Trump now insists that tax reform won't cut taxes for the rich, even though his 2016 campaign proposal did.
House Speaker Paul Ryan, who backs a cut in the top individual rates, has rejected the idea of comparing effects on different income groups as Democratic-style class warfare.
Steve Bannon, until recently Trump's chief White House strategist, now attacks "establishment" thinking like Ryan's from the outside.
Having returned to champion of blue-collar populism at Breitbart News, Bannon campaigned over the weekend for an Alabama Republican Senate candidate against an opponent backed by both the president and McConnell.
Some Capitol Hill veterans insist there will be no health care hangover on tax reform.
A tax-cutting debate, they explain, is inherently more unifying for the small-government party than one about Obamacare services.
"Health care is always an away game for GOPers," observed Michael Steel, who was a top aide to former House Speaker John Boehner.
"Tax is our home court."
And with 2018 midterm elections looming, tax reform has taken on "do-or-die" urgency, adds Rohit Kumar, a former policy aide to McConnell.
Moreover, he said Democrats will find it harder to mobilize against giving Americans tax cuts than against taking away their health benefits.
But with Trump broadly unpopular, and Republicans dispirited, some Democrats insist they enter the fight with renewed energy and political momentum.
"Painting Republicans as the party of billionaires and CEOs is our wheelhouse, and this billionaire-filled administration is walking right into it," boasted Adam Jentleson, a former Senate Democratic leadership aide.
"A lot of people who have been engaging in political action this year, many for the first time, are seeing that their action has a major impact," added Jentleson, now at the liberal Center for American Progress.
"On our side, there's the reverse effect of success begetting success."
Senior administration officials said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Director Gary Cohn met with Trump on Monday to discuss the details of the tax framework.
Trump has pushed for lower rates for corporations and so-called pass-through businesses, saying as recently as Sunday that he would prefer a 15 percent corporate rate.
The Big Six framework is expected to outline a 20 percent rate instead, according to several people briefed on the plan.
The White House had also called for a 15 percent rate for pass-throughs; the plan will likely end up at 25 percent, two people familiar with the contents said.
Trump is slated to deliver a speech on tax reform in Indiana on Wednesday and is expected to argue that reforming the tax code is essential to delivering on the populist message that drove his campaign.
The administration is framing tax cuts for businesses as essential for encouraging companies to bring money back from overseas  and ensuring that they stay in America in the first place.
They will also argue that big reductions to the business tax code will result in more jobs and higher wages for workers.
"If we do this, we will create millions of new jobs for our people, and bring many, many businesses back to our shores," Trump said Tuesday before a meeting with members of the House tax-writing committee.
"We won't see companies leaving our country, firing their people, and going and then selling their product, by the way, back into our country with no tax and no retribution.
That will all stop."
The president also previewed a few key details of the tax framework, which he said would include doubling the standard deduction that households are allowed to take, as well as expanding the child tax credit.
According to an Axios report, the plan will raise the bottom tax rate for low-income households from 10 percent to 12 percent, as proposed by House GOP leadership.
However, doubling the standard deduction could offset that change  and potentially eliminate the tax burden for some households.
The White House is planning to pitch the measure as a "zero tax rate" on low-income families.
Trump will also continue pressuring vulnerable red-state Democrats to get on board with tax reform.
Indiana's Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, will travel with the president for Wednesday's speech.
Donnelly was also in Indiana last week for Vice President Mike Pence's address on tax reform.
Donnelly has introduced a bill that he says will penalize companies that outsource jobs.
He said he has discussed the effort with both Trump and Pence.
"I believe tax reform should include policies that will benefit working and middle-class families, create new jobs, and protect existing jobs," Donnelly said, in a Tuesday statement.
"I'm pleased the president has been supportive of my proposal to address the outsourcing of American jobs, and I am hopeful that any tax reform proposal includes measures that support American workers as well as the middle class and encourage domestic investments."
President Donald Trump earlier Tuesday harshly criticized the trio of Republicans who opposed thecontroversial Graham-Cassidy bill.
"We don't know why they did it," Trump said of Collins, John McCain of Arizona and Kentucky's Rand Paul.
"We are disappointed in certain so-called Republicans."
The GOP holds 52 seats in the Senate.
It needed 50 Republican senators to vote for the bill for it to pass, since no Democrat or independent would have voted for the legislation.
Collins' decision to oppose the bill Monday evening came minutes after the Congressional Budget Office, in a preliminary analysis, said that if Graham-Cassidy becomes law the number of people with health insurance that covers "high-cost medical events would be reduced by millions."
A wide array of groups representing health providers, insurers, patients and older Americans were opposed to the bill, which also was viewed negatively by much of the public, according to recent polls.
Driving that opposition was concern that if the bill became law, up to 20 million or more people would become uninsured, and premiums in the individual health plan market would rise significantly for people with pre-existing health conditions.
The CBO said that Graham-Cassidy would slash funding for Medicaid, which provides health coverage to primarily poor people, but $1 trillion over the next decade.
The bill would have repealed the Affordable Care Act mandates that require most Americans to have health insurance or pay a fine.
It also would have eliminated the ACA's system of subsidizing health insurance purchases on the individual market, and ended the expansion of Medicaid benefits to more poor adults.
In its place, the bill would have given individual states block grants of federal funds, which they then would have to use to create their own health-care coverage systems.
Graham said there is "universal agreement" among Senate Republicans that "Obamacare is failing, can't be repaired, it's structurally flawed."
But, he added, "the missing agreement for us as Republicans has been we know what we don't like.
Obamacare is not working, we make that case effectively.
But we've had a hard time articulating what we're for until now.
Now we have something to talk about that makes sense."
"The good news for America is Republicans are not just going to deliver on campaign promises, we're actually going to improve health care by giving you access to people who care more about you at home than any bureaucrat could do here in Washington," Graham said.
He said the bill is "a simple proposition, taking basically the same amount of money, in a fair way allocate it to the states."
Graham also said that by having states decide what to do with the money, Obamacare would be replaced "with a system closer to where you live, controlled by people you can vote for."
The liberal think tank Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said that despite Graham's claims, the bill would have reduced federal funding for individual insurance plan purchases and expansion of Medicaid benefits by more than $240 billion from 2020 to 2026.
In 2026, there would be 20 states whose block grant funding under the bill would have been anywhere between 35 and almost 60 percent below what they would have received under Obamacare, CBPP said.
In an analysis published Monday, the CBPP said the bill "would ultimately cause tens of millions of people to lose health coverage and weaken coverage for millions more."
Trump: I will be going to Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands 6 Hours Ago | 02:37

President Donald Trump on Tuesday defended his administration's handling of disaster recovery efforts in Puerto Rico, a week after the island was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
"We are literally unloading water and supplies on an hourly basis, and we're going to be deploying navy ships," Trump said during a joint news conference with Mariano Rajoy, the visiting president of the government of Spain.
"As we speak, FEMA, our great first responders, and all available federal resources, including the military, are being marshaled to save lives, protect families and begin a long and very, very difficult restoration process," Trump said.
He also pointed to comments from Puerto Rico's governor, Ricardo Rossello, praising the administration's response.
"Rossello just told me this morning, the entire federal workforce is doing great work in Puerto Rico.
And I appreciated his saying it.
And he's saying it to anybody that will listen," Trump said.
Earlier in the day, the president announced that he will visit Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands on Oct.3, two weeks after the Category 5 storm left nearly all of Puerto Rico without power or radio communications.
The Trump administration has faced growing criticism for the pace of its response.
"The Trump administration's response to the destruction in Puerto Rico has been wholly inadequate," Rep. Adam Smith, D-Wash., said in a recent statement.
"A territory of 3.5 million American citizens is almost completely without power, water, food, and telephone service, and we have a handful of helicopters involved in DOD's response.
It's a disgrace."
Officials on the U.S. commonwealth have warned that the island faces an impending "humanitarian crisis" unless more supplies and rescue workers are deployed.
The Treasury Department on Tuesday ratcheted up the pressure on North Korea by putting sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation in its effort to cut off financial support for Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs.
The measure targets eight North Korean banks and 26 people "linked to North Korean financial networks," the Treasury said.
The individuals  North Korean nationals  represent the country's banks and work in China, Russia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates, the department said.
"This further advances our strategy to fully isolate North Korea in order to achieve our broader objectives of a peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.
"This action is also consistent with UN Security Council Resolutions."
The action comes as the international community has tried to use economic pressure to push the communist dictatorship to end its nuclear ambitions.
In two recent unanimous votes, the United Nations Security Council put new sanctions on Pyongyang.
The Treasury described one package approved this month as "the strongest sanctions ever imposed on North Korea."
In a news conference with Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, on Tuesday, Trump kept up the heated rhetoric.
The president said, "If we have to take" the military option in North Korea, "we will."
Trump added that it would prove "devastating" for Pyongyang.
Tuesday's sanctions block the individuals' property or interests within the United States.
They follow President Donald Trump's Thursday executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
So far, economic measures have not deterred Pyongyang from a string of missile tests and an apparent hydrogen bomb test.
Trump and the North Korean regime have exchanged fiery rhetoric in recent days as tensions escalate.
North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused Trump of declaring war, saying that gives Pyongyang the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Ri Yong Ho referred to a Saturday Trump tweet in which he said the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, whom Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
President Donald Trump on Tuesday revealed that the Republican tax reform plan will include a near doubling of the standard deduction for both individuals and families.
"We will cut taxes tremendously for the middle class," Trump said at the White House.
"That includes nearly doubling the standard deduction that most families take on their taxes and increasing the child tax credit."
Within moments of Trump's remarks, reports emerged that the Republican proposal will raise the standard individual deduction to $12,000 from its current rate of $6,350, and the deduction for a married couple to $24,000, up from $12,700.
Trump's comments reflect a growing consensus between the White House and congressional negotiators about precisely what the GOP tax reform plan will entail.
And not a moment too soon: both Trump and House Republican leaders plan to unveil what they call a "framework for tax reform" on Wednesday.
This framework will also reportedly include a major cut to the corporate tax rate, bringing it to 20 percent from 35 percent, as well as a reduction in the top individual rate, to 35 percent from its current 39.6 percent.
Rates in the lowest tax bracket, however, may actually increase, from 10 percent to 12 percent, according to a report Tuesday from Axios.
The White House and a spokeswoman for the House Ways and Means Committee did not respond to a request for comment on the Axios report, or a request to confirm the proposed standard deduction rates.
Trump met Tuesday with a bipartisan group of House Ways and Means Committee members.
The tax-writing committee is currently drafting the House's version of Trump's promised tax reform bill.
"I look forward to working with the members of Congress gathered here today to pass the reform and the massive tax cuts that our country desperately needs to thrive, to grow, to prosper," the president said.
"If we do this, we will create millions of new jobs for our people and bring many, many businesses back to our shores.
We will become a competitive nation again."
The Federal Reserve may have overstated the strength of the labor market and the rate of inflation, which could lead to monetary policy ahead that will be easier than previously thought, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Tuesday.
In a speech delivered to the National Association for Business Economics in Cleveland, Yellen admitted that trends in employment and wage and price pressures have shifted from what central bank forecasters expected.
The result would be an even more dovish Fed when it comes to removing the historically aggressive policy accommodation in place since the financial crisis.
"My colleagues and I may have misjudged the strength of the labor market, the degree to which longer-run inflation expectations are consistent with our inflation objective, or even the fundamental forces driving inflation," Yellen said, according to prepared remarks.
The speech comes less than a week after the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee approved the first steps in unwinding some of the stimulus the Fed has provided since late-2008.
The central bank will begin rolling off some of the bonds it holds on its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
In addition, the FOMC has been slowly raising rates, though it chose not to do so at the September meeting.
The committee lowered its expectations for inflation ahead and said its longer-run benchmark interest rate is probably a quarter point below earlier projections.
Yellen said a regular pace of rate hikes ahead is likely still warranted, though Fed officials are looking closely at the assumptions underlying those projections.
While conceding that the Fed may need to slow the removal of accommodation, she also said the central bank "should also be wary of moving too gradually."
Addressing current economic conditions, Yellen said the Fed still expects longer-run inflation to trend toward the 2 percent target policymakers believe is healthy for economic growth.
However, she said they are making room for the possibility that they're wrong.
Last week, we learned that Treasury Secretary Steve "Can I borrow a government jet for my honeymoon" Mnuchin isn't the only one in the Trump administration who goes to great, taxpayer-funded lengths to avoid taking commercial flights like some kind of commoner.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, too, has all but made it a rule that he must travel via chartered planes, following a traumatic incident wherein the former congressman suffered through a flight delay.
(Never again, he swore.)
According to an investigation by Politico, since being confirmed, Price has taken private planes for official business at a cost of at least $400,000 to taxpayers, often for short trips like from D.C. to Philadelphia where airline tickets run in the low hundreds, and a car or train ride would have just as easily sufficed.
In contrast, Price's predecessor, Kathleen Sebelius took just one private flight during her five-plus years on the job, to a remote part of Alaska that would have been otherwise unreachable.
Invoicing taxpayers to avoid even the possibility of being delayed was never going to be a great look.
But for Price, the optics are especially bad because 1) he is currently working to cut billions of dollars in health-care subsidies and slash funding from the National Institutes of Health and 2) back when he was a congressman, he literally made railing against the use of private jets by government employees one of his pet causes.
GOP tax plan could trash the value of two popular tax breaks 4 Hours Ago | 00:45

Details leaking out about the Republican tax reform plan hint that while two popular deductions would remain intact, they'd become useless to the majority of taxpayers who now take advantage of them.
GOP lawmakers have signaled they'll retain the tax breaks for mortgage interest and charitable contributions even as they pursue eliminating others.
Yet given that President Donald Trump on Tuesday said that the plan is to nearly double the standard deduction, "many current itemizers would choose that instead, so a lot less people would use those deductions," said Joseph Rosenberg, a senior research associate at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
Currently, taxpayers choose between the standard deduction or itemized deductions and use whichever amount is greater to reduce their tax bill.
For 2017, the standard deduction is $6,350 for individual taxpayers, $9,350 for heads of households and $12,700 for joint filers.
In other words, if those amounts nearly double as discussed by both Trump and congressional Republicans, a married couple would need deductions to exceed $24,000 to make itemizing worthwhile.
The Tax Policy Center estimates that of the 45 million tax filers who itemize, 38 million, or 84 percent, would opt for the $24,000 standard deduction because it would exceed the combined value of other deductions available to them.
Trump is expected to deliver a speech Wednesday in Indianapolis that will offer more specifics about what plan will emerge in Congress, although it's unclear how detailed the reveal will be.
President Donald Trump fell for Iranian fake news.
On September 22, Iran released video footage of a missile test, just a few hours after the country displayed a projectile during a military parade.
The next day, Trump responded on Twitter.
"Iran just test-fired a Ballistic Missile capable of reaching Israel.
They are also working with North Korea.
Not much of an agreement we have!"
he said, referring to the Iran nuclear deal.
The problem is the Iranian video shows images from a failed missile launch in January, and US intelligence officials say they "picked up no indication" of a new test.
Israeli security officials also confirm the video shows images from earlifer this year.
More from Vox:



Experts on North Korea's latest threat: "This is how war by miscalculation starts"

Angela Merkel wins 4th term as chancellor of Germany

Why London is banning Uber from its streets

When asked by Vox about the video and the test, both National Security Council and State Department spokespeople noted that the government was still looking into media reports about them.
Spokespeople from the Defense Department didn't immediately respond to inquiries.
This is no ordinary faux pas by Trump.
The president signaled his intention to remove the US from the Iran deal last week at the United Nations General Assembly.
Any provocative action by Iran  like a missile test  only provides fodder for his rationale to rip up the deal.
But yesterday, European diplomats defended the agreement at an event at the Atlantic Council think tank, with French Ambassador Grard Araud claiming "the agreement is working as it is."
But the fact that a test-that-wasn't possibly threatened a multinational agreement is jarring  and shows just much the deal seems to ride on Trump's own whims.
The abrupt resignation of Equifax CEO Richard Smith on Tuesday is a smart move for the credit-report service company, according to one Wall Street firm.
"We believe the immediate retirement is a political positive for the company," Cowen financial services policy analyst Jaret Seiberg wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.
"Our view has been that the political pressure for Smith's departure was going to be overwhelming so that it would be better for the company to do this in advance of the hearings next week so it could get credit for the action rather than be perceived as bowing to congressional pressure."
Smith is expected to testify on the company's data breach before the House Energy and Senate Banking committees on Oct. 3 and Oct. 4 respectively.
"These hearings will still be brutal with Democrats and Republicans on the attack.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren is especially adept at using these hearings to paint the picture she wants of how a corporation acted," he wrote.
"So there is still a risk that Equifax is perceived as not doing enough."
Equifax shares fell 1.7 percent in early trading on Tuesday.
The company did not return an email asking for comment.
President Donald Trump says he'll visit hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
Trump announced the visit after the administration came under criticism for its response to the damage on the island that is home to more than 3 million U.S. citizens.
The island has been coping with shortages of food, drinking water, electricity and various forms of communication after Hurricane Maria struck earlier this month.
Trump said Tuesday is the earliest he can visit without disrupting recovery operations.
He says he may also visit the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Trump says Puerto Rico is important to him.
He says Puerto Ricans are "great people and we need to help them."
This was supposed to be a big week for President Trump.
His hopes of repealing and replacing Obamacare hang in the balance.
He's set to push a major tax reform plan.
He's campaigned hard for a Republican candidate whose Alabama primary race is on Tuesday.
And he's trying to project strength and efficiency as his administration grapples with the aftermath of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico  and the nuclear threat from North Korea.
So what's Trump talking about at the start of this critical week?
More from USA Today:

Analysis: Trump's approach to sports breaks with long bipartisan tradition

Sanders on Trump's NFL insults: 'It's always appropriate' for president to defend flag

Equifax CEO retiring amid cyberbreach fallout

Football players.
So far, Trump appears to be forgoing a closing argument on his policy proposals  and instead escalating his feud with the National Football League and superstar athletes.
Ever since he called football players who sit or kneel during the national anthem "sons of b-----" at a rally on Friday and encouraged the NFL to fire them for their political protest, Trump has perpetuated the controversy  for four straight days.
Trump has tweeted or retweeted comments about the NFL flap at least 18 times since Saturday morning.
Star football and basketball athletes have in turn accused Trump of racially charged threats to free speech  and the squabble playing out over Twitter and the news media is dwarfing his message on the rest of his agenda.
That may be the plan, some analysts said, because many of those other issues aren't going so well.
"Trump will always change the subject if there's something bad going on," said Republican strategist Rich Galen.
Others said it's just Trump being Trump  responding to whatever catches his eye.
"I think it's classic Trump, listening to his gut and letting it rip," said Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to Republican President George W. Bush.
Whatever his motivation, Trump is ensuring that his feud with pro sports is getting a stadium full of attention at a pivotal time for an administration facing low approval ratings, political divisions among Republicans, and even threats of war over North Korea.
In the Senate, Republicans are struggling to round up enough votes behind a plan to repeal and replace President Barack Obama's health care law.
The Republicans are racing against the clock.
After Sept. 30, the chamber's rules change and lawmakers won't be able to pass a new bill with just 50 votes.
This is critical, since past health care efforts to overhaul health care have failed even with 52 Republicans.
A health care success could give Trump legislative momentum as he lobbies for a tax reform; a defeat could make it that much tougher.
Trump is launching a national tour of political battleground states to promote a package to reduce the corporate tax rate and simplify the tax code.
On Wednesday, he is scheduled to visit Indiana to discuss tax reform.
Trump himself faces a big political test on Tuesday, in a political primary race taking place in a hotbed for college football: Alabama.
The president has gone out of his way to back Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to the seat after Trump named Jeff Sessions as attorney general.
Strange is opposed Roy Moore, who is backed by prominent Trump supporters such as former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former White House senior adviser Steve Bannon.
Polls give Moore an edge  and a Strange loss would deal Trump a defeat in his personal efforts to reshape the Republican Party.
In his remarks to at the rally, Trump said he was taking a "big risk" with his endorsement of Strange "because if Luther doesn't make it they're going to go after me" and argue he has no political strength.
"I might have made a mistake and I'll be honest I might have made a mistake.
Because, you know, here's a story, if Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," he said.
"They're going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.
It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment.
I mean, these are bad people."
Yet Trump's support for Strange on Friday night in Huntsville were not what generated the headlines from the rally.
Instead, there was one epic line that's still circulating on the media: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now?
He's fired!
he's fired!"
Trump told a cheering crowd.
Trump's follow-up tweets throughout the weekend  including one in which he uninvited pro basketball champions Golden State Warriors to the White House  drew hits from a succession of pro athletes.
They ranged from basketball's LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum," to football's Tom Brady, who said Trump's comments were "just divisive."
The sports question dominated the White House press briefing on Monday.
Pressed about whether Trump went too far by using the words "sons of b----," spokeswoman Sarah Sanders repeatedly deflected, insisting it was "always appropriate" for the president of the United States to defend the American flag and national anthem.
"Look, this isn't about the president being against anyone," she said.
"But this is about the president and millions of Americans being for something, being for honoring our flag, honoring our national anthem and honoring the men and women who fought to defend it."
It's not just domestic policy challenges that Trump is facing this week.
Trump went to the United Nations last week to confront North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
Describing Kim Jong Un as "Rocket Man," Trump said the North Korean leader is risking "suicide" if it attacks the United States or its allies in Asia  and raised the specter of nuclear warfare.
On Monday in New York, North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters his country regards Trump's comments as a declaration of war.
"Since the U.S. declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down the U.S. bombers even when they are not yet inside the airspace border of our country," he said.
Also hovering over the administration: An ongoing investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into possible links between Trump's team and Russians who sought to influence last year's presidential election, and whether the president sought to obstruct justice by firing FBI Director James Comey.
"Don't forget he's got Mueller breathing down his neck," Republican strategist Galen said.
Changing the subject has been a habit for Trump, whether it's holding a 77-minute news conference in order to generate new headlines after firing National Security Adviser Michael Flynn or claiming there were millions of illegal voters after he lost the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Republican consultant Liz Mair, who worked with "Never Trump" organizations during last year's campaign, said the bottom line is whether Trump has "successfully distracted his base" from bad news stories.
The NFL flap may look "stupid and ham-handed to a lot of Beltway consultant types," Mair said, but remember: It could work for him because millions of Americans agree with his position.
"Ultimately, there's a lot of data out there showing that sports fans really do rally to the national anthem," Mair said.
"If the numbers of players who take a knee rises and that's perceived as anti-national anthem or anti-flag, it could become a big repetitional problem for the NFL and individual teams, fairly or not."
Fleischer, who now runs a sports communications company, said Trump made a valid point in bad way, particularly with the reference to "sons of b----."
The flap surrounding his comments is the kind of thing that has happened before, he said, and will likely happen again.
"This has been the Trump candidacy and the Trump presidency for two years now," he said.
"It's his style."
Sen. Corker: I've advised my family not to respond to anything with Equifax on it 10 Hours Ago | 00:28

Senate Banking Committee member Bob Corker warned on Tuesday that people should be careful about how they handle emails that reference Equifax following its massive data breach.
"All I know is I'm not responding any emails that I get from Equifax, worried that I'm going to be phished and all my data is going to be stolen," the Tennessee Republican said on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"I've told my entire family, please do not respond to anything that has Equifax on it."
The senator spoke as Equifax shares were halted in premarket trading pending an announcement.
The company later said its CEO, Richard Smith, had "retired."
Smith is scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking Committee on Oct. 4.
Corker declined to discuss issues directly related to the breach of data for up to 143 million people.
The stock has suffered since the credit reporting company revealed the hack on Sept. 7, nearly six weeks after it discovered the intrusion.
Since the breach was announced, two other top executives have retired.
A conflict on the Korean peninsula would have "catastrophic consequences", and Russia's foreign ministry is working "behind the scenes" on finding a political solution to the North Korea crisis, the RIA news agency cited a senior Russian diplomat as saying on Tuesday.
Cited by RIA, Mikhail Ulyanov, the head of the non-proliferation and arms controls department at Russia's foreign ministry, also said the U.S. approach to North Korea was a dead end and the tool of sanctions against the North had almost been exhausted.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserves the right to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. strategic bombers even if they are not in the country's air space.
Low-income Americans, older people and women pay a greater share of their incomes toward out-of-pocket health costs than do others, according to a new report issued Tuesday.
The broad analysis of spending by more than 2 million Americans also found that there is a strong correlation between when people tend to pay their out-of-pocket health costs and the months of March and April, when most people get their income tax refunds.
And the report from the JP Morgan Chase Institute found that out-of-pocket health spending was highly concentrated among relatively few families.
"The top 10 percent of health-care spenders contributed 49 percent of total out-of-pocket spending in 2016," the report said.
That top 10 percent on average spent 9 percent of their take-home pay on out-of-pocket health costs.
Out-of-pocket costs are health expenses not covered by a person's insurance plan, and include charges such as co-payments, deductibles and coinsurance.
"The reality is that many American families don't have the cash buffer to withstand the volatility created by out-of-pocket health-care payments," said Diana Farrell, president and CEO of JP Morgan Chase Institute.
"We need to better understand the correlation between financial health and physical health."
The report comes as Republican leaders in the Senate are pushing a last-ditch bill to repeal and replace much of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
Health experts have predicted that the bill, known as Graham-Cassidy, could greatly weaken, or eliminate in some states, ACA rules that mandate health insurance plans cover a minimum set of so-called essential health benefits, without imposing out-of-pocket charges on patients.
The institute for the report looked at spending from 2013 through 2016 by about 2.3 million Chase checking account customers.
That data was "de-identified," meaning it was not linked to people by name.
The time period examined includes the first three full years of implementation of Obamacare.
Critics of that law predicted it would lead to increased health costs.
However, the Chase report found that overall out-of-pocket health spending rose modestly during the time frame, by 4.3 percent on average, and ended up being less of a share of take-home income over time.
In 2013, average annual out-of-pocket health-care spending by a family stood at $629, representing 1.7 percent of take-home pay, the report said.
That grew to $645 per family in 2014  a 2.6 percent increase  and to $690 per family in 2015, a rise of 6.9 percent.
In 2016, out-of-pocket spending grew to $714 per family, up 3.6 percent from the prior year.
However, from 2014 through 2016, the total spent on out-of-pocket costs on average in each of those years was 1.6 percent of the average family's household take-home pay  slightly less than the level seen in 2013.
But the burden on certain groups of people was much higher.
Families that earned less than $24,000 annually spent, on average, 2.8 percent of their take-home pay on out-of-pocket costs in 2016.
That was up from 2.6 percent of take-home pay in 2015.
The next highest average burden was among families earning between $24,000 and $38,000 annually, which paid 1.6 percent of their take-home pay to out-of-pocket costs.
As incomes rose after that, the burden of out-of-pocket costs dropped.
In households where the primary checking account was held by a woman, families paid, on average, 1.8 percent of their take-home pay toward out-of-pocket health costs in 2016, according to the report.
That compares to 1.5 percent among families where men were the primary checking account holders.
The report also found out-of-pocket cost burdens increased in direct correlation to a person's age.
While people 18 to 25 years old paid just 1.2 percent of their pay toward such costs in 2016, that rose to 1.6 percent for people 35 to 44 years old, and to 1.9 percent for people 55 to 64 years old, the report said.
Farrell, the CEO of the JP Morgan Chase Institute, said that while the overall average burden from out-of-pocket health costs remained stable in the past four years, many people were feeling more pinched from those costs.
"What we hear all the time.. is that these costs are increasing quite significantly, and we note that, too," Farrell said.
"But why is the burden stable?
... By and large people are spending a certain fraction of their income on out-of-pocket health care spend, and then they won't spend anymore," she said.
"That means if they get the health care  fine.
If that means they won't pay for something that they're due to pay, they're probably not doing it, because we see this tight linkage between ability to pay, and pay," Farrell said.
"It's almost as though people cap how much they will spend on health care... so when they have more ability to pay, when incomes go up, they pay.
When they don't, they won't get the health care or they won't pay for the health care."
Farrell also said that if the Graham-Cassidy bill that would replace Obamacare becomes law, it will increase the burden on low-income people who already are struggling with out-of-pocket health costs.
"The demographic groups that are really carrying the heavier burden are the ones more likely to feel the impact of the changes," she said.
"Because the last several years have been relatively helpful to those groups, even though the outcome is more burdensome to them."
US disclosed path of B-1B bomber because North Korea didn't seem to know 11 Hours Ago | 01:00

North Korea appears to have boosted defenses on its east coast, South Korea's Yonhap news agency said on Tuesday, after the North said U.S. President Donald Trump had declared war and that it would shoot down U.S. bombers flying near the peninsula.
Tensions have escalated since North Korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on Sept. 3, but the rhetoric has reached a new level in recent days with leaders on both sides exchanging threats and insults.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said Trump's Twitter comments, in which the U.S. leader said Ri and leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer" if they acted on their threats, amounted to a declaration of war and that Pyongyang had the right to take countermeasures.
Yonhap suggested the reclusive North was, in fact, bolstering its defenses by moving aircraft to its east coast and taking other measures after U.S. bombers flew close to the Korean peninsula at the weekend.
The unverified Yonhap report said the United States appeared to have disclosed the flight route of the bombers intentionally because North Korea seemed to be unaware.
South Korea's National Intelligence Service was unable to confirm the report immediately.
Ri said on Monday the North's right to countermeasures included shooting down U.S. bombers "even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country."
"The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country," he told reporters in New York on Monday, where he had been attending the annual United Nations General Assembly.
"The question of who won't be around much longer will be answered then," he said.
White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders denied on Monday that the United States had declared war, calling the suggestion "absurd."
Speaking in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said war on the Korean peninsula would have no winner.
"We hope the U.S. and North Korean politicians have sufficient political judgment to realize that resorting to military force will never be a viable way to resolve the peninsula issue and their own concerns," Lu told a daily news briefing.
"We also hope that both sides can realize that being bent on assertiveness and provoking each other will only increase the risk of conflict and reduce room for policy maneuvers.
War on the peninsula will have no winner."
While repeatedly calling for dialogue to resolve the issue, China has also signed up for increasingly tough U.N. sanctions against North Korea.
China's fuel exports to North Korea fell in August, along with iron ore imports from the isolated nation, as trade slowed after the latest U.N. sanctions, but coal shipments resumed after a five-month hiatus, customs data showed on Tuesday.
In Moscow, Russia's Foreign Ministry said it was working behind the scenes to find a political solution and that using sanctions against North Korea was almost exhausted.
During a visit to India, U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis said diplomatic efforts to deal with the crisis were continuing.
"You have seen unanimous United Nations Security Council resolutions passed that have increased the pressure, economic pressure, and diplomatic pressure, on the North, and at the same time, we maintain the capability to deter North Korea's most dangerous threats," he told reporters in the Indian capital.
Twitter clarified on Monday why it did not take down a tweet by President Donald Trump which threatened North Korea, saying that it was newsworthy.
Over the weekend, Trump tweeted that North Korea "won't be around much longer."
It appeared to amount to a threat.
The company's policy says that users "may not make threats of violence or promote violence, including threatening or promoting terrorism."
Trump's tweet was taken as a declaration of war by North Korea.
The rogue state's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said: "Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country."
The U.S. president is very vocal on Twitter and is often involved in controversies online.
Many have wondered why Twitter has not clamped down on tweets that appear to violate the company's policy.
Twitter explained the reasoning.
It said that it holds all accounts to the same rules when assessing if tweets violate policy.
One of the considerations is "newsworthiness" and if a tweet is of public interest.
The company said that it has "long been internal policy" and that it will soon update its public-facing rules to reflect it.
The White House has since issued a statement denying that Trump's tweet amounted to a declaration of war.
U.S. economic growth rates could double, or even triple, in the next decade if President Donald Trump's plans produce expected sharp cuts to corporate and personal taxes, according to Steve Forbes, who ran twice for president under a platform calling for a flat tax rate.
Forbes, chairman and editor-in-chief of the eponymous financial news firm Forbes Media, said the speculation around the tax cut plan, with details expected to be outlined this Wednesday, show the scope could be a record breaker.
"In dollar terms, I hope it will be a large tax cut, the largest, the bigger the better.
I think it's going be not so much reforming the U.S. tax code, which is a horror, but simply reducing current tax rates," Forbes told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Tuesday.
"On the business side we have the worst in the world, 35 percent to 40 percent.
I think they're going to try and get that below 20 percent, perhaps 15 percent," he said.
"On the personal side I think you're going to see tax cuts across the board.
And so short term, that may increase the deficit, but a growing economy cures deficits better than anything else."
While Forbes is correct that the U.S. officially has higher corporate taxes than many industrialized countries, in practice, its largest corporations often use deductions and other maneuvers to pay taxes below official rates or to pay no federal taxes at all.
The U.S. ramped up its response Monday to the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, even as President Donald Trump brought up the island's struggles before Hurricane Maria struck  including "billions of dollars" in debt to "Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with."
The Trump administration has tried to blunt criticism that its response to Hurricane Maria has fallen short of its efforts in Texas and Florida after the recent hurricanes there.
Five days after the Category 4 storm slammed into Puerto Rico, many of the more than 3.4 million U.S. citizens in the territory were still without adequate food, water and fuel.
Flights off the island were infrequent, communications were spotty and roads were clogged with debris.
Officials said electrical power may not be fully restored for more than a month.
Trump himself pointed out some differences between the two states and the island in a series of tweets Monday night.
In Washington, officials said no armada of U.S. Navy ships was headed to the island because supplies could be carried in more efficiently by plane.
The Trump administration ruled out temporarily setting aside federal restrictions on foreign ships' transportation of cargo, saying it wasn't needed.
The government had waived those rules in Florida and Texas until last week.
Though the administration said the focus on aid was strong, when two Cabinet secretaries spoke at a conference on another subject  including Energy Secretary Rick Perry, whose agency is helping restore the island's power  neither made any mention of Puerto Rico or Hurricane Maria.
Democratic lawmakers with large Puerto Rican constituencies back on the mainland characterized the response so far as too little and too slow.
The confirmed toll from Maria jumped to at least 49 on Monday, including 16 dead in Puerto Rico.
US disclosed path of B-1B bomber because North Korea didn't seem to know 11 Hours Ago | 01:00

North Korea has been moving airplanes and boosting defenses on its east coast after the United States dispatched B-1B bombers to the Korean peninsula over the weekend, South Korea's Yonhap News Agency reported on Tuesday, citing the country's spy agency.
The United States seemed to have disclosed the flight route of the bombers intentionally because North Korea seemed to be unaware, the report said.
South Korea's National Intelligence Service was unable to confirm the report immediately.
North Korea's foreign minister said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserved the right to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. bombers even if they are not in its air space.
White House aides regularly used personal devices for official business, while at least six close advisers to President Donald Trump occasionally used private email addresses, both Politico and the New York Times reported on Monday, citing sources.
Former chief of staff Reince Priebus tried to stop the "rampant" use of personal devices for official business, asking aides in a July meeting to store personal phones in secure lockers or leave them at home, Politico reported, citing meeting attendees.
Priebus' request was largely ignored, the Politico report said, citing six current and former administration officials, advisors and people who correspond with the White House.
The New York Times also reported, citing current and former officials, that at least six of Trump's closest advisers used private email addresses for White House business.
That included Trump's daughter Ivanka Trump, his son-in-law Jared Kushner, Stephen Bannon and Priebus, while other advisers, including Gary Cohn and Stephen Miller sent or received at least some emails on personal accounts, the New York Times report said, citing officials.
White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders issued a statement on Monday, noting that personnel had been given instructions on the proper handling of electronic communications.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work.
They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts," she said.
The White House told NBC News that it wouldn't comment further on the matter or on the nature of the emails which were sent and received.
The news comes a day after Kushner's lawyer confirmed that he had used a personal email account to communicate with White House officials.
Sen. Susan Collins says she will vote no on Graham-Cassidy bill 8:16 PM ET Mon, 25 Sept 2017 | 00:32

Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, revealed Monday that she will vote against the Graham-Cassidy bill that would repeal and replace major parts of Obamacare, likely dooming Republican efforts to get rid of that health-care law.
Collins is the third Republican senator after John McCain of Arizona and Rand Paul of Kentucky to publicly say they will vote "no" on Graham-Cassidy.
Earlier Monday, President Donald Trump said the failure by his fellow Republicans in Congress to pass Obamacare repeal as long promised was "disgusting," and that he expected Collins to kill the latest effort by opposing the bill.
GOP leaders need 50 of their 52-member majority in the Senate to vote for the bill to win passage before a deadline Saturday.
Collins' move came minutes after the Congressional Budget Office in a preliminary analysis said that if the bill becomes law the number of people with health insurance that covers "high-cost medical events would be reduced by millions."
And it came hours after the release of a new version of Graham-Cassidy that was tweaked to direct more federal funds to Collins' home state of Maine, as well as to the states of several other Republican holdouts to the bill.
In announcing her opposition, Collins cited the CBO report, among other factors.
"The CBO's analysis on the earlier version of the bill, incomplete though it is due to time constraints, confirms that this bill will have a substantially negative impact on the number of people covered by insurance," Collins said.
Collins also cited the rushed effort to pass Graham-Cassidy, the risks that the bill poses to Medicaid, and the danger of the legislation undercutting Obamacare protections for people with pre-existing health conditions.
"Sweeping reforms to our health care system and to Medicaid can't be done well in a compressed time frame, especially when the actual bill is a moving target," Collins said.
"Today, we find out that there is now a fourth version of the Graham-Cassidy proposal, which is as deeply flawed as the previous iterations.
The fact that a new version of this bill was released the very week we are supposed to vote compounds the problem."
Earlier Monday, S&P Global Ratings issued two reports that estimated Graham-Cassidy would lead to job losses of nearly 600,000 people, and cost $240 billion in lost economic activity over the next decade, as well as threatening the fiscal outlooks of state and local governments.
The CBO report issued Monday analyzed, in preliminary fashion, the effect of an earlier version of Graham-Cassidy.
Another version of the bill was rolled out Monday.
CBO, in its report on the bill, said the number of newly uninsured "could vary widely depending on how states implemented" Graham-Cassidy.
"The decrease in the number of insured people would be particularly large starting in 2020," the non-partisan CBO said in its new report.
That year is when Graham-Cassidy would begin making major changes in how the federal government funds Medicaid and provides assistance to people buying health coverage in the individual plan market.
CBO pointedly noted that the report does not offer specific estimates on exactly how many people are expected to become uninsured.
Nor does the preliminary report estimate how Graham-Cassidy would affect individual market insurance premiums or its total expected impact on the federal budget deficit.
CBO said it would need "at least several weeks to provide" such specific projections.
Past reports by the CBO on recent Republican bills to repeal Obamacare estimated that up to 21 million people or more would become uninsured by 2026 if those bills became law, as compared with the Affordable Care Act remaining intact.
The report was rushed at the behest of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., in an effort to pass Graham-Cassidy before a deadline this Saturday.
The deadline is the result of the Republicans using a process known as budget reconciliation to allow passage of a repeal effort with just 50 votes, as opposed to the 60 votes traditionally needed with other legislation to avoid being blocked by a filibuster.
The Senate parliamentarian ruled Sept. 1 that the reconciliation authorization expires this Saturday.
Despite the lower vote hurdle, McConnell for months has been unable to cobble together the 50 Republican senators he needs to pass a repeal bill, assuming a tie-breaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence, himself a Republican.
Last week, McCain said he would oppose the bill.
On Monday, Paul restated his opposition to a new version of the bill.
While Paul had voted for an Obamacare replacement bill in July, McCain had dramatically voted against it, sending it down to defeat.
In that vote, McCain was joined by Collins and Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, along with every Democrat and independent in the Senate.
Murkowski has yet to declare her position on Graham-Cassidy.
Read Collins' full statement opposing Graham-Cassidy, below:
The Facebook ads that Russian operatives purchased to try to influence U.S. voters during the 2016 election highlighted the Black Lives Matter movement and other hot-button, divisive issues, said a person familiar with the situation.
The content of the ads was previously reported by The Washington Post.
This person, who requested anonymity, also said the ads will be shared with congressional investigators in a matter of days.
Facebook said earlier this month that an internal investigation had found that groups with ties to Russia had spent $100,000 on ads designed to influence the attitudes of U.S. voters in the last presidential campaign.
The investigation found approximately $100,000 in ad spending from June 2015 to May 2017 associated with roughly 3,000 ads.
That was a reversal from late last year, when CEO Mark Zuckerberg argued that fake news on Facebook did not play a key role in the election's outcome.
Facebook had contacted the FBI during the summer of 2016 when it first suspected Russian involvement but was unable to confirm its suspicions until recently.
Sen. Richard Burr, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said last week that a hearing on the matter is a question of "when."
In Tuesday's Republican U.S. Senate runoff, bombastic conservative Christian candidate Roy Moore faces the appointed, business-backed incumbent Sen. Luther Strange.
Despite Strange's support from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, GOP Senate leaders and President Donald Trump, Moore has consistently led in the polls.
If he wins the nomination and then the December general election, mainstream Republicans warn he would add a rebellious voice to a 52-member GOP Senate caucus.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell already has scant margin for error as he attempts to steer the tax reform debate to a more successful conclusion than the GOP has reached on health care.
There's even concern, improbable as it sounds, that Moore could prove controversial enough to lose in December against Democratic nominee Doug Jones.
Moore has twice been forced from judicial office in Alabama for refusing to follow federal court rulings on church-state separation and same-sex marriage.
"It may put the seat in play if Moore wins," said Whit Ayres, a prominent Virginia-based GOP pollster.
"I know it sounds ridiculous to think of a Democrat winning Alabama these days, but it also sounded ridiculous to think that Scott Brown could win in Massachusetts."
Ayres referred to the shocking 2010 Massachusetts special election that deprived President Barack Obama and Democrats of a critical Senate seat.
That represents the ultimate GOP nightmare in the race to fill out the term of Jeff Sessions, who resigned the seat to become Trump's attorney general.
Even short of that, GOP strategists fear Alabama could complicate preservation of the party's Senate majority in 2018 midterm elections.
A Moore victory could embolden less-electable populist challengers to other Republican senators, risking a repeat of unexpected 2010 and 2012 losses in red-leaning states.
Moreover, Moore's flamboyance and hard-right social views would make him a reliable magnet for national attention.
The resulting publicity would represent one more obstacle to the GOP's desire to modernize and expand its lagging appeal among women and young people, among other groups.
Despite the president's stated public preference for Strange, the Trump factor in the race has been muddled.
As Trump's base among white working-class conservatives remains aloof from the incumbent, ousted White House officials Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka have campaigned for Moore in their bid to counter more moderate voices in Congress and the administration.
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson has also praised Moore.
Remarkably, so has the president, who told a rally in Alabama last week that he may have made a mistake and would help Moore's campaign if Strange loses.
The realclearpolitics.com average of public polls shows the incumbent approaching the Tuesday runoff behind by 10 percentage points.
But low-turnout special elections are notoriously unpredictable, and GOP analysts say heavy spending by Strange's establishment allies has left him within striking distance.
The chamber, says top political strategist Scott Reed, is using novel employer-to-employee turnout techniques with Alabama business organizations in hopes to pulling out the victory.
With Washington's business agenda on the line, he casts the election as an important precursor to 2018.
A Moore win "would open up the floodgates for others," Reed explained.
"Got to shut it down, or else."
The predictions come as GOP leaders face difficulty getting 50 Republican senators to support the controversial repeal bill pending in the Senate.
In one report, S&P Global Ratings said the bill would add "flexibility" for individual states by offering them block grants of federal funding to craft their own health insurance systems.
But the lower overall federal funding that they would get compared with what many of them currently get through Obamacare "would hurt the economy, states, and health insurers," that report said.
The analysis also said the bill would initially lead to fewer people with health insurance who earn between 133 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty line, an income band that encompasses most people eligible for Obamacare subsidies to help pay for health plan premiums.
And over time, there would be fewer people insured by Medicaid, the joint federal-state program that covers poor people, "as some states are unable to maintain current eligibility levels" because they will get less federal funding under Graham-Cassidy.
In another report, S&P Global Ratings said the bill "represents nothing short of an overhaul" to the fiscal relationship between federal government and individual states, which could increase pressure on states' budgets.
The company noted that funding by the federal government for Medicaid accounts for more than half of all federal funding to states, at a whopping $330 billion in 2016.
Federal Medicaid funding functions "as a fiscal stabilizer for state finances," because that federal money increases during economic downturns.
But the Graham-Cassidy bill "would upend Medicaid's status" as a program in which, currently, federal funding increases as a state's costs from the program rise.
Under the bill, that increased federal funding would be capped, meaning states would get less money than they currently are projected to receive through Medicaid.
That would "result in more acute financial pressure on the states in economic downturns," according to the analysis.
On Monday, he said the NFL "must respect" the U.S. flag and national anthem at its games, a day after his earlier comments on the controversial issue triggered protests at the league's games around the country.
On Sunday, NFL coaches, staff and some owners joined players in a show of silent solidarity at their games, after repeated comments by Trump that the league should fire any players who have knelt in protest during the anthem.
Some chose to kneel on Sunday, while others linked arms.
Meanwhile, the GOP is expected to release the framework of its tax reform plan on Wednesday.
It will likely feature dramatically lower rates for most  if not all  households and businesses, according to several people familiar with the plans.
While Trump has been advocating for a 15 percent corporate tax rate, a Republican familiar with the plans confirmed negotiators are pursuing a rate of 20 percent.
Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, said the plan has to be revenue neutral in order to boost economic growth.
And a 20 percent corporate tax rate will cost $1.8 trillion to $1.9 trillion over the next 10 years, he noted.
"The arithmetic here is pretty daunting, particularly when you are talking about those kinds of reductions in corporate tax rates," Zandi told "Power Lunch."
As to whether Republicans ultimately have a chance of passing reform, Holtz-Eakin said it all depends on what is unveiled Wednesday.
However, the bottom line is that the country needs economic growth, said

"We need better productivity growth and the real wages that will come with it.
That's the promise the president made to the American people," said Hotlz-Eakin, who was also chief economic policy advisor to Sen. John McCain's 2008 presidential campaign.
"The tax bill is an important part of that.
We'll have to see what it looks like."
CNBC's Jacob Pramuk, Ylan Mui, and Reuters contributed to this report.
The chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) only learned in August that hackers had last year breached the regulator's database of corporate announcements, according to prepared congressional testimony seen by Reuters on Monday.
The SEC's enforcement staff and inspector general's office have launched internal investigations into the breach and whether hackers illegally traded on non-public information they stole from the EDGAR filing system, Jay Clayton will tell the Senate Banking Committee at a hearing on Tuesday.
Clayton formally became chairman of the SEC in May, several months before he was told about the 2016 breach.
The regulator reported the breach to the Department of Homeland Security's Computer Emergency Readiness Team (CERT) when the breach was first discovered, he said.
He has since called for hiring more cyber experts at the SEC.
The popular provision may be on the tax reform chopping block for a simple reason: eliminating it would generate tens of billions of dollars in revenue needed to offset the money lost from lowering tax rates on individuals and corporations.
For the tax years 2016 through 2020, letting taxpayers off the hook for taxes paid to state and local governments will cost the Treasury nearly $370 billion, according to a report from the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.
Proponents of the provision have long argued that, without the provision, taxpayers would be hit twice for each dollar of income, once by their state and again by the U.S. Treasury.
Opponents argue that the deduction benefits the richest taxpayers at the expense of those with lower incomes, or who don't own a home or make large purchases that carry a big sales tax.
One thing is clear: eliminating the deduction would hurt taxpayers who voted for Hillary Clinton a lot harder than it would those who voted for Donald Trump, according to a CNBC analysis of voter and tax data.
Trump rescinded his White House invitation to last year's NBA champion, the Golden State Warriors, opening a new fissure between the president and a growing number of professional athletes.
Trump's remarks stirred an already thorny national conversation about the dividing lines between politics, sports and race relations.
At a rally in Alabama on Friday, Trump sparked a firestorm on social media by suggesting NFL players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired by owners, and in doing so used salty language.
Some NBA VIPs responded, including the head coach of the San Antonio Spurs, Gregg Popovich, who told reporters "our country is an embarrassment to the world."
When asked about Trump removing his invitation to the Warriors, Popovich said he thought "it was comical" since Golden State wasn't "going to go anyway."
Sacramento Kings owner Vivek Ranadiv said in a statement that the president's "recent comments are deeply disappointing."
"Our focus should be on fostering a culture of sensitivity and inclusion," Ranadiv said.
Megabrand Nike also spoke out, saying in a statement that the sports brand "supports athletes and their right to freedom of expression on issues that are of great importance to our society."
CORRECTION: Gregg Popovich is head coach of the San Antonio Spurs.
His title was misstated in an earlier version of this article.
Over a meal that ended with apple pie, Mr. Trump also said that repatriation of taxes on corporate profits kept offshore would be part of the plan.
He did not describe changes to carve-outs or deductions, according to a person in the room.
At one point, Mr. Trump said that getting the corporate rate down was the key to getting the economy to grow.
The president said that he had grown tired of listening to foreign leaders, like Indias Narendra Modi, describe a gross domestic product close to 10 percent, while Mr. Trump had nothing comparable to show, according to the person, who asked for anonymity because it was a private dinner.
The White House is attempting to navigate a narrow political path on an issue that administration officials believe can reboot Mr. Trumps presidency.
It is an attempt to assuage the demand for lower taxes among wealthy party donors without being perceived by Mr. Trumps working-class base as giving a windfall to the rich.
Mr. Trump promised after meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday that we will cut taxes tremendously for the middle class.
He will make his pivot to overhauling the tax code official on Wednesday during a speech in Indiana where he will unveil details of a plan that he has promised will be the biggest tax cut in history.
After the failure of Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act, passing tax legislation has become all the more crucial, and it is no accident that the Trump administration has chosen the Hoosier State, a reliably Republican part of the country.
It is also the home to Vice President Mike Pence, its former governor, and it has a Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, whose support Mr. Trump may need to get a tax bill through Congress.
For Republicans who have been scarred buy the experience of seeing tax cuts lead to fiscal shortfalls in states such as Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee, Indiana represents a case study of where tax cuts worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Our history of being a state that has reduced the size of government, specifically through Pence tax cuts in 2013, makes us an example of heres these tax cuts, and then seeing economic growth, said Justin Stevens, the Indiana director of the conservative activist group Americans for Prosperity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As governor, Mr. Pence signed legislation modestly reducing personal income taxes and taxes on companies.
Coinciding with that, the states economy grew and unemployment declined.
As of last year, Indianas gross domestic product ranked 16th in the United States and its unemployment rate last month was 3.5 percent, below the national level of 4.4 percent.
Mr. Trump on Wednesday will make the case that this is the recipe for economic success nationally, but some economists in the state are not certain that the local strategy can be replicated on a national scale.
Michael J. Hicks, an economics professor at Ball State University, said it was too soon to say if the Pence tax cuts actually stimulated the state economy.
On the right, youre going to hear that by cutting taxes youre going to have huge new tax revenues, Mr. Hicks said.
But theres no analysis that finds that.
Indiana has also had to find new revenues to fund infrastructure projects and rebuild crumbling roads.
This year, the state approved a 10-cents-per-gallon gasoline tax  a concept that is anathema to conservative orthodoxy.
Finding money to pay for the Trump administrations ambitious tax plan will be one of the bigger puzzles.
Republicans say they are counting on a surge in economic growth and on the elimination of deductions to make up a fiscal shortfall that tax experts have suggested could amount to trillions of dollars.
Last week, members of the Senate Budget Committee agreed on a budget framework that would add to the federal deficit in order to pave the way for a $1.5 trillion tax cut over the next 10 years.
The budget resolution still must pass both houses of Congress before work can begin in earnest on tax legislation, and some Republicans have already expressed reluctance.
Assessing the cost of the Republican tax framework will be difficult until more details are made available.
Analyses of Mr. Trumps previous plans and the House Republican blueprint from 2016 were estimated to reduce government revenues by between $3 trillion and $7 trillion over a decade.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the failure to tackle health care with only Republican votes, Mr. Trump is expected to intensify his pitch to get Democrats on board with taxes.
Mr. Donnelly, who is seen as vulnerable in a state that voted overwhelmingly for Mr. Trump, is one of three senators who did not sign a letter from Democrats making demands that the tax plan not benefit the rich or add to the deficit.
Mr. Trump will probably call him out directly on Wednesday, as he did Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota, during a recent rally.
During his meeting on Tuesday with Republicans and Democrats from the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Trump also made a pitch for bipartisanship.
It is time for both parties to come together and do what is right for the American people, he said.
But garnering support from Democrats will not be easy.
Trump asked for Democrats to jump on the caboose after the tax train has already left the station, said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who complained that lowering top tax rates and repealing the estate tax would be a boon for the wealthy.
I saw no Democrat ready to jump on board.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration will resign at the end of the week, according to law enforcement officials, who said he had become convinced that President Trump had little respect for the law.
The official, Chuck Rosenberg, who twice served as chief of staff to the former F.B.I.
director James B. Comey and remains a close confidant, had grown disillusioned with Mr. Trump.
The president fired Mr. Comey in May, and then in July told law enforcement officers please dont be too nice when handling crime suspects.
Mr. Rosenberg forcefully rejected Mr. Trumps comment, sending an email to all D.E.A.
employees at the time to tell them that they should not mistreat suspects.
We must earn and keep the public trust and continue to hold ourselves to the very highest standards, Mr. Rosenberg wrote in the internal email.
Ours is an honorable profession and, so, we will always act honorably.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Trump has injected the White House into law enforcement matters in ways that have made many career officials uncomfortable.
The president spoke disparagingly about ongoing criminal investigations into his own associates, encouraged the Justice Department to investigate political rivals including Hillary Clinton and said he would never have nominated Jeff Sessions to be attorney general if he had known Mr.
Sessions would recuse himself from an investigation into his associates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rosenberg, who was appointed by President Barack Obama in 2015, is a career prosecutor.
Under President George W. Bush, he served as the United States attorney in both southern Texas and eastern Virginia.
Defense and State Department officials, as well as the Joint Chiefs of Staff and members of the United States mission to the United Nations, had recommended that Mr. Trump admit at least 50,000 refugees during the next fiscal year, according to several people briefed on the debate.
A Historically Low Cap on Refugees President Trump will lower the cap on refugees admitted to the United States to 45,000 for the 2018 fiscal year, down from the 110,000 cap set by President Barack Obama before he left office.
Mr. Trump had previously ordered that the country admit no more than 50,000 refugees in 2017.
200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 45,000 cap for 2018 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 90 00 10 18

That was the number that Mr. Trump had laid out in his original travel ban executive order issued during his first week in office in January, while the Department of Homeland Security had suggested 40,000.
Both numbers were far lower than the 110,000 limit President Barack Obama had placed on refugees last year, and the 75,000 limit resettlement agencies said was necessary to begin to meet humanitarian needs around the world.
But Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, ultimately lowered his recommended limit to 45,000, the people said, and that was the number presented to Mr. Trump.
The White House declined to comment on the decision or on the deliberations surrounding it.
Refugee assistance groups reacted with outrage to the anticipated cap, calling it a departure from the American tradition of welcoming immigrants in times of need.
Today a dark shadow has passed across the great American legacy and promise of protecting refugees, said Linda Hartke, the president of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, one of nine agencies  most of them faith-based  that partner with the United States government to resettle refugees.
The threat of a drastically low ceiling on refugee arrivals in the U.S. is contrary to American values and the spirit of generosity in American churches and communities.
The decision on refugees was the second time this month that Mr. Miller, a champion of the hard-line immigration policies that Mr. Trump made a centerpiece of his campaign, did not succeed in his effort to impose the strictest of policies.
He also failed to persuade the president to immediately end the Obama-era program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, shielding them from deportation and allowing them to work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But in both cases, Mr. Millers efforts made a difference.
Mr. Trump did announce early this month that he would end the so-called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program within six months, although he said he would work with Democrats on a compromise measure to codify the protections.
And while the president did not set the refugee cap as low as Mr. Miller had advised  at one point, he argued no more than 15,000 should be admitted  holding the refugee limit below 50,000 was a statement in and of itself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Miller and other advocates of reducing refugee admissions had worked for months to justify doing so, even rejecting internal government research that found that refugees have a positive impact on the nations fiscal condition.
Instead, they argued that vetting refugees to insure they do not pose a terrorism threat and adjudicating their resettlement applications are too costly and burdensome, and that once in the United States, they become a drain on American resources that could be better spent assisting persecuted people closer to their home countries.
Refugee resettlement groups say there is no evidence to support such concerns.
Setting a record-low cap on refugee resettlement, the White House is showing a stunning cruelty toward those fleeing our common enemies  enemies who intend to paint the U.S. as indifferent to refugees suffering, said Hans Van de Weerd, vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee, another of the nine resettlement agencies.
He called on Congress to oppose what would amount to an abandonment of U.S. global and strategic leadership, and decency.
On Monday, 34 senators  all Democrats except for John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  wrote to Mr. Trump pleading for a cap higher than 50,000, calling the refugee program a critical pillar or our national security and our foreign policy.
The current global humanitarian crisis requires strong American leadership, the senators wrote, calling for a robust refugee admissions goal.
The same day, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee wrote to Mr. Kelly and Tom Price, the secretary of Health and Human Services, requesting more information, including a briefing with White House officials by next week, about whether the administration suppressed the agencys study finding that refugees were on balance a fiscal benefit.
Photo

WASHINGTON  Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced on Tuesday that he will not seek re-election next year, a move that is likely to set off a scramble pitting mainstream Republicans against President Trumps populist wing.
Mr. Corker, 65, an establishment Republican who joined the Senate in 2007, would likely have drawn a primary challenge from the right  and hinted as much in his statement announcing his retirement, which said he had always been drawn to the idea of a citizen legislator.
I also believe the most important public service I have to offer our country could well occur over the next 15 months, Mr. Corker said, and I want to be able to do that as thoughtfully and independently as I did the first 10 years and nine months of my Senate career.
Mr. Corkers decision not to run again creates the first open Senate seat of the 2018 election cycle.
Jennifer Duffy, an analyst with the nonpartisan Cook Political report, predicted Republicans would retain the seat.
But, she said, they will have a free-for-all in terms of the nomination.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One likely candidate is Joe Carr, a Tea Party favorite and former state representative who unsuccessfully challenged Tennessees other Republican senator, Lamar Alexander, last year.
Others are Representative Marsha Blackburn, a staunch Trump ally, and possibly retired football great Peyton Manning, a star quarterback at the University of Tennessee.
A conservative activist, Andy Ogles, has already announced his candidacy.
The Commerce Department announcement, which centered on Boeings claim that the Canadian jet maker had received unfair government subsidies for its products, was the first in a series of rulings on the duties that are to be charged to Bombardiers products, rulings that could be reversed in months to come.
The next decision, on Oct. 5, will consider whether Bombardier sold its jets in the United States at an unfairly low price, a practice known as dumping.
That could add an additional duty to imports of the jet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The United States International Trade Commission, a federal agency that monitors trade, will make a final ruling on the case early next year that could uphold or eliminate the duties.
Yet federal customs officials are authorized to begin collecting the duties on Bombardier planes immediately.
While the new jet has not yet been imported into the United States, the measure could damp future sales.
Boeing greeted the news in a statement: This dispute has nothing to do with limiting innovation or competition, which we welcome.
Rather, it has everything to do with maintaining a level playing field.
The ruling was handed down as negotiators from Canada, the United States and Mexico met in Ottawa to negotiate reforms to Nafta, a sprawling trade pact that has guided the North American economy since 1994.
In Canada, where trade supports much of the economy, and news of Nafta is splashed across newspapers and television channels, the talks are being viewed as a test of whether the government will stand up to President Trumps aggressive stance on trade.
In response to duties on Bombardier, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has threatened to abandon a planned purchase by Canada of military aircraft from Boeing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We wont do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business, Mr. Trudeau said on Sept. 18 in a joint news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.
Ms. May also criticized the Boeing case, arguing that it would cost jobs in Northern Ireland, where the wings for Bombardiers CSeries jet are built.
Jerry Dias, president of the Canadian labor union Unifor, said Tuesday that there was no question that President Trumps election to office had ratcheted up trade tensions between the United States and Canada.
At some point or another, Canada is going to have to strike back in a very aggressive way.
Just continuing to take it on the chin doesnt make any sense, he told reporters on the sidelines of the Nafta negotiations.
At the Pentagon, several Defense officials expressed anger that years of close work could be jeopardized by what one characterized as a casual process that failed to take into account Americas long-term interests in the region.
Current and former officials at the United States Africa Command, which works closely with the Chadian military to fight Islamic extremists in north and central Africa, said they could not explain the inclusion and referred inquiries to the White House.
Carter Ham, a retired general who formerly headed the Africa Command, called the decision to put Chad on the list puzzling.
The presidents proclamation said Chad does not adequately share public safety and terrorism-related information and fails to satisfy at least one key risk criterion.
Administration officials declined to provide details, but the White House and the Homeland Security Department defended the move.
This was not a subjective exercise, said Dave Lapan, a Homeland Security spokesman.
We laid out a very clear baseline of the information we needed from all countries, and all countries were measured equally to determine whether they met that baseline.
The presidents national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R.
McMaster, acknowledged the disagreement within the administration over banning travel from Chad and raised the possibility that the decision could be reversed.
That list is not fixed, he told an audience at a Washington conference on Monday.
On Chad, there was a real debate.
He said that Chad was included because of concerns over sharing of data with American officials, but added that maybe in a couple of months they can get there on meeting American requirements.
The development of the travel ban was an intense process that included the departments of State and Homeland Security, the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and the White House, federal officials said.
After officials from across the government developed a baseline that established what each country must do to allow travel to the United States, American diplomats worked with other nations to meet the standards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On a phone call set up by the White House to brief reporters about the ban, a State Department official asserted that the agency was fully engaged in the development of the list.
But other officials at both the State Department and the Pentagon disputed that characterization.
To me, what they did makes absolutely no sense whatsoever, none, zero, said John Campbell, former United States ambassador to Nigeria who is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
He called the White House assertion that Chad has not done enough on data sharing really, really weak.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if the restrictions on travel from Chad are eased, the ban will have a lasting effect, Africa experts predicted.
This confusion over the treatment of a key U.S. ally on combating terrorism sends the message that the United States cannot be trusted as a reliable partner, said Monde Muyangwa, director of the Africa program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Chads strongman leader, Idriss Dby, was surprised by the decision, officials there said, and the government in NDjamena issued a statement on Monday expressing astonishment and incomprehension in the face of the official reasons for this decision, which contrasts with Chads constant efforts and commitments in the fight against terrorism at regional and global levels.
Defense officials said the designation could prompt Chad to curb its cooperation on counterterrorism.
Chad, with a mixed population of Muslims and Christians, borders countries that have struggled to harness militant activity  Libya, Sudan, Nigeria, Niger and the Central African Republic.
It has battled Islamic terrorists in the region, including offshoots of Al Qaeda and Boko Haram.
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chads foreign minister who worked to fight terrorism in central Africa, was named to head the African Union Commission this year.
Chads military has worked closely with Americans, playing host to exercises conducted by the United States.
It is a major partner in an effort involving several countries in the Lake Chad basin to fight Boko Haram and has deployed 700 troops along border areas to prevent infiltration by the Islamist group.
American officials have mostly ignored complaints that Mr. Dby has overseen an authoritarian regime, Africa experts said, in large part because of his staunch support for counterterrorism.
A State Department report from last year focused in large part on the countrys counterterrorism work, though it noted a financial crisis has kept the government from consistently paying the police and the military.
J. Peter Pham, an Atlantic Council Africa specialist who has been considered by the Trump administration for the job of assistant secretary of state for African affairs, suggested in a telephone interview on Tuesday that one reason for Chads inclusion on the list was that the country has played a somewhat duplicitous role against Boko Haram, and only cracked down on the group after its trade routes became endangered.
Mr. Pham acknowledged that Chad is geographically, a country one doesnt want to alienate.
But, he said, that on some issues, theyve been a necessary partner but not a wholehearted one.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chads military has crossed the border to help its neighbor, Nigeria, retake territory from Boko Haram.
Mr. Stone said on Tuesday that although he was not familiar with the details of Mr. Manaforts finances, he believed that federal prosecutors were trying to pressure the former campaign chairman into testifying that members of the Trump campaign colluded with Russians to disrupt the election.
I think whats happening here is that the special counsel will try to manufacture a crime and then say, Look, Manafort, we wont prosecute you for this if you simply admit you were colluding with the Russians and Donald Trump knew everything, Mr. Stone said.
In other words, bare false witness against the president.
Ive known Paul Manafort for over 40 years, and I dont believe he is going to do that.
He is not going to lie, and that would be a lie.
Mr. Stone also said he told the Intelligence Committee that he never worked with Russians to aid Mr. Trumps campaign, and that he was unaware of any evidence that showed Russian collusion with any member of the Trump campaign, Trump family, Donald Trump, Trump associates, Trump friends, Trump supporters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He said he did admit to the committee that he once exchanged messages with someone claiming to be Guccifer 2.0, an online persona that American officials believe was a front in the Russian hacking efforts and responsible for copying thousands of emails from the Democratic National Committee.
Mr. Stone said he did not know about hacks in advance, and called the exchanges with the suspected hacker benign and innocuous.
He said that a journalist had connected him with Guccifer 2.0, but he refused to name the journalist because he had spoken to the person off the record.
Im not going to burn somebody who I spoke to off the record, Mr. Stone said.
If he releases me, if he allows me to release it, I would be happy to give it to the committee.
Im actually going to try to do that.
Mr. Stones refusal to name the person who had helped him make contact with Guccifer 2.0 seemed to frustrate Democrats on the committee.
There was one significant area of seminal importance to the committee that Mr. Stone was unwilling to answer our questions, said Representative Adam B. Schiff, the top Democrat on the committee.
We hope that he will cooperate in the future.
If not, it will be necessary to subpoena him to bring him back to answer those important questions.
Mr. Schiff does not have the power to unilaterally issue a subpoena to Mr. Stone.
Committee rules require that any subpoena have the signature of Representative Devin Nunes, the California Republican who is chairman of the committee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Stone, a self-proclaimed political dirty trickster, said he would be open to returning to the committee under the right circumstances, and called Tuesdays appearance a very frank exchange.
Insurers say at least some of those increases were to account for the policy uncertainty brought by the Trump administration, which has indicated that it may hold back some routine payments to insurers and that it will reduce outreach to possible customers.
Complete market failure seems to have been averted: There is at least one insurer that has agreed to sell health plans in every county of the country.
But Republican critics of the law are right that many parts of the country will have just one insurer offering plans, and that single insurer may be charging very high prices for its products.
Photo

Most Obamacare customers wont feel the sting of higher premiums, because government subsidies limit their exposure to a percentage of their income.
But there are still millions of people who buy their own insurance and earn too much to qualify for subsidies.
The rocky market will be worse for them, and possibly unaffordable.
Senators in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee had been negotiating over a possible bipartisan deal to help stabilize the markets.
The expected package would guarantee the disputed payments to insurers and provide states with some policy flexibility in future years.
But that effort was shelved by congressional leadership as part of the failed push to pass the Graham-Cassidy health care overhaul.
Now, with contract signings imminent, it is probably too late for lawmakers to improve conditions much for next year.
(On the flip side, its probably also too late for President Trump to create substantially more havoc for markets by declining to pay the insurance subsidies, as he has periodically threatened to do.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Trump administration has, so far, been a reluctant overseer of the Obamacare markets.
It has slashed its budget for outreach and enrollment assistance for possible customers, meaning that consumers may have more trouble finding out when and how to sign up for health insurance.
Its Department of Health and Human Services keeps sending news releases cheerfully noting the laws shortcomings.
(A recent one had the subject line Its not working...)

Officials also recently announced that they expect to take the HealthCare.gov enrollment website offline for maintenance for up to 12 hours on five of the six Sundays during the enrollment period, substantially longer than was needed last year.
The administration argues that people eligible for Obamacare programs are already well-informed about their options, but there is substantial survey research suggesting that many may be confused or simply unaware of how the program works.
That may be especially true now, given the months of news about efforts to repeal the law.
Taken together, higher prices and less outreach are likely to mean fewer people buying coverage on the individual insurance market.
Insurers views on whether to participate in 2019 are likely to be shaped by their experience next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Trump administration has tended to use the poor performance of the health care markets as a prod to legislators to move forward on repeal.
But the timing of repeals collapse means that, even absent a legislative overhaul, the markets will suffer.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The Environmental Protection Agency has signed a contract for nearly $25,000 to build a soundproof communications booth for the office of the administrator, Scott Pruitt.
The contract, with Acoustical Solutions in Richmond, Va., was first reported by the Washington Post.
It calls for the construction of a $24,570 privacy booth for Mr. Pruitts office.
Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., did not return requests for comment on the contract.
In a statement to the Post, she said agencies needed to have such booths to guard against hacking and eavesdropping.
This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and E.P.A.
needs to have updated, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Critics say Mr. Pruitt has gone to unusual lengths to operate in secrecy at the E.P.A., where employees report he is often accompanied by armed guards even inside the agency, and avoids making important calls in his office.
He is the first E.P.A.
administrator to have round-the-clock security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steve Snider, a salesman at Acoustical Solutions who handled the E.P.A.
contract, said privacy booths are typically used to conduct hearing tests and cost between $5,000 and $6,000.
He said the E.P.A.
had requested significant modifications that ultimately required them to have the booth custom-ordered through the manufacturer.
Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, who introduced the other measure, said his concern was more about checks and balances than any particular action by Mr. Trump.
Legislation, he said, would lower the temperature around the investigation and buy Mr. Mueller time and space to finish his work.
We are not here to clip any one presidents wings, but to create a check on any future presidents, Mr. Tillis said.
The two bills share much in common, and both try to build on the existing Justice Department statute governing special counsels to ensure that any firing is for good cause.
Mr. Grahams bill, introduced with Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, would require the attorney general  or a deputy  to petition a panel of federal judges for permission to remove a special counsel.
Mr. Tilliss bill, in contrast, would allow for a judicial review process after a special counsel is fired.
The attorney general would have to prove good cause for removal, and a panel of three federal judges would have 14 days to reach a decision.
The bill was introduced with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, and a bipartisan pair of representatives have introduced parallel legislation in the House.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, after the firing of the F.B.I.
director, James B. Comey, and was given broad latitude to investigate Mr. Trump and his associates.
But the statute under which he was appointed affords Mr. Mueller, or other future special counsels, few formal job protections.
If he wished, Mr. Trump could order top Justice Department officials to fire Mr. Mueller.
Supporters of the Judiciary Committee measures repeatedly alluded on Tuesday to comments and actions made by Mr. Trump about the investigation that they said made their work necessary.
Most saliently, in a late-July interview, Mr. Trump told The New York Times that Mr. Muellers team was rife with conflicts of interest and warned that investigators would be crossing a red line if they began to look at Trump family finances beyond any relationship to Russia.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Separating themselves from the Republicans, committee Democrats said those comments, and Mr. Trumps repeated hostility toward investigators, made the need for action urgent.
Simply put, I have strenuous concern about President Trumps respect for the rule of law, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committees ranking Democrat, said in an opening statement.
The president must know that Congress will not stand idly by if he attempts to undermine independent criminal investigations.
The committees chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, did not make his leanings toward the bills known, but he made clear in his opening statement that he saw an important role for Congress to oversee special counsel investigations.
The Judiciary Committee is one of several congressional committees investigating Mr. Trumps links to Russia.
The committees particular interest stems from Mr. Comeys firing, but it has outlined a broad investigation into several other matters, from the Obama Justice Departments handling of the Hillary Clinton email case to Mr. Trumps presidential campaign.
Tuesdays discussion frequently returned to a 1988 Supreme Court case that weighed the constitutionality of the now-expired independent counsel statute, put in place after the Watergate scandal.
In the ruling, the court voted 7 to 1 that the counsel statute did not violate the separation of powers doctrine and was therefore lawful.
But the decision came with a powerful dissent from Justice Antonin Scalia, which in the years since has gained a widespread following.
Independent counsels, such as Kenneth W. Starr, had considerably broader powers and more latitude than todays special counsels, but the constitutional scholars and members of the committee repeatedly used the decision and the dissent to make arguments for and against the constitutionality of the proposed protection bills.
Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, both Republicans, appeared most skeptical that the bills were constitutionally supportable.
The overriding concern I have whenever we are talking about this area is that bad things happen when we depart from the three-branch structure of the federal government, Mr. Lee said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Akhil Reed Amar, a law professor at Yale, told the panel that he expected either measure could be vetoed by the president or invalidated by the courts.
Other legal scholars disagreed.
Photo

For a cool quarter-million dollars per couple, wealthy Republican donors participated in a private round-table with President Trump on Tuesday night.
The exclusive conversation took place at New Yorks Le Cirque restaurant, which lists escargot vol-au-vent, octopus salvatore and paupiette of black cod on its dinner menu and served as the evenings venue for Mr. Trump to raise money for the Republican National Committee.
Couples who pay $250,000 got the private face time with the president, while donors who contributed $100,000 each enjoyed V.I.P.
access to Mr. Trump, Republican officials said.
The minimum contribution for the event was set at $35,000.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The president is helping the Republican Party raise money ahead of the 2018 congressional midterm elections, even as he has already set up the apparatus to mount his own re-election campaign in 2020.
Since taking office, Mr. Trump has held fund-raisers and rallies in several states around the country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The fund-raiser is expected to draw some of Mr. Trumps most wealthy supporters from New Yorks finance and real estate worlds.
As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump turned to many of the same people to finance his campaign.
During his recent social media fusillade against the N.F.L.
and its players, President Trump claimed that ratings for football games were way down, except during pregame shows when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Photo

But data released Tuesday contradicts Mr. Trumps point.
Ratings for the N.F.L.s Week 3 games  the first played since he suggested players who dont stand for the national anthem should be fired  actually increased by 3 percent from last year, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Viewership did decline during three Sunday games, but increased in the 1 p.m. slot on CBS as well as during Thursday Night Football.
Monday nights game, between the Dallas Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals, spiked 63 percent in viewership from last year when the game shared the same time slot as the first presidential debate.
A White House spokesman referred The Times to viewership increases in pregame shows, so Mr. Trump has a point that his comments may have had an impact.
Nonetheless, his description of game viewership as way down is overstated, sports rating analysts agreed.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The league has seen a modest decline in viewership over the past few years, said Jon Lewis, who reports under the pseudonym Paulsen for Sports Media Watch, a website that specializes in following television ratings.
But Mr. Lewis disagreed with the notion that there were plummeting numbers.
Mr. McDade preserved thousands of jobs by preventing the closing of the Tobyhanna Army Depot, southeast of Scranton, and was instrumental in the designation of the Delaware Water Gap Recreation Area.
He wangled some $70 million from the federal budget for a museum called the Steamtown National Historic Site at an abandoned rail yard in Scranton, a tourist attraction that the National Park Service never requested.
And, with Mr. Murtha, he persuaded the Defense Department to buy about 300,000 tons, or roughly 10 percent, of the nations output of high-sulfur anthracite coal annually, providing the Pentagon with a perpetual 10-year supply of the fuel, which is mined in Pennsylvania.
A federal investigation of Mr. McDade, begun in 1988, culminated in his indictment in 1992 on bribery and racketeering charges.
He had been accused of failing to report gifts  including college scholarships for his son and vacation junkets  from people and corporations seeking government contracts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tried in 1996, he was acquitted after he testified that his failure to disclose the gifts had been an honest mistake.
Several of his aides blamed themselves for any reporting violations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McDade was re-elected twice while charges were pending.
But the indictment embarrassed congressional Republicans, especially after he refused to relinquish his leadership role as ranking minority member on the House Appropriations Committee.
In 1993, House Republicans voted to require indicted members to quit their leadership posts until their cases were resolved.
But they carved out an exemption for those who, like Mr. McDade, were already under indictment.
When the Republicans won control of the House in 1994, however, Mr. McDade was passed over for the committee chairmanship.
In 1998, as a result of his indictment, House Republicans enacted a law requiring federal prosecutors to follow the ethical code for lawyers in the state in which they were operating.
Prosecutors said the provision hampered their covert, undercover and sting investigations.
Joseph Michael McDade was born on Sept. 29, 1931, in Scranton to John B. McDade and the former Genevieve Hayes.
He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1953 and from the University of Pennsylvania law school.
He is survived by his wife, the former Sarah Scripture, and their son, Jared; two sons, Joseph Jr. and Mark, and two daughters, Aileen McDade and Deborah Bell, from an earlier marriage, to the former Mary Theresa OBrien, which ended in divorce; three sisters, Mary Gene Butler, Genevieve Tuthill and Ann Dwyer; and six grandchildren.
Apple alone is sitting on an overseas stash of almost $260 billion, according to Bloomberg, while Microsoft has more than $120 billion parked abroad.
The pharmaceutical giant Pfizer does not regularly disclose how much of its offshore profits are stored in foreign tax havens, but the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates that at the end of 2016, it held almost $200 billion abroad.
Photo

Of course, the standard claims are being made about the vast stimulative effects of the repatriated cash.
They are being met this time with vigorous counterclaims based on the results of the Bush administrations shot over a decade ago.
Back then, companies found their way around regulations forbidding this use of the money to simply benefit shareholders and corporate chiefs.
A Senate commission reported that the top 15 repatriating corporations reduced their overall United States work force by 20,931 jobs, even as share buybacks increased and the annual compensation for their top five executives jumped 27 percent from 2004 to 2005 and another 30 percent the next year.
Pfizer, for instance, brought back $35.5 billion, the largest amount repatriated by a single company during the tax holiday, according to the Senate report.
Then it turned around and spent over $20 billion in stock repurchases from 2005 to 2007.
By 2007, the aggregate compensation of its top five executives was nearly $13 million higher than in 2004.
Its United States payroll was 12,000 smaller.
The pattern was similar across most repatriating companies.
Hewlett-Packard, which brought home $14.5 billion, bought back $22 billion worth of stock over the three years and cut its payroll by more than 8,500.
The tobacco company Altria, which brought over $6 billion home during the holiday, spent $2.5 billion on share buybacks and bumped pay in the executive ranks by more than $50 million, but cut 6,000 jobs.
A few years back, Ms. Forbes explained to my colleague Floyd Norris how the computer manufacturer Dell had lobbied hard for the holiday  claiming that part of the money would be used to build a plant in Winston-Salem, N.C.
They did bring back $4 billion, and spent $100 million on the plant, which they admitted would have been built anyway, she said.
About two months after that, they used $2 billion for a share buyback.
Profits Held Outside the U.S.
The 10 companies with the most profit held outside the United States last year, in billions.
Apple Pfizer Microsoft G.E.
IBM Johnson & Johnson Cisco Merck Google Exxon Mobil $230.2 197.1 124.0 82.0 71.4 66.2 65.6 63.1 60.7 54.0

With a new move afoot to put such holdings back on American books, there is a critical question that is too quickly glossed over: Why do businesses act this way?
Why didnt corporate executives invest more in their businesses and their work forces?
Why did they go to the trouble of dribbling around a rule forbidding the use of repatriated profits to pay themselves a bonus?
(Note to Congress: Money is fungible.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Call me nave.
Professor Forbes and her colleagues  indeed, many economists  might swat the question away by arguing that businesses didnt use the extra cash to invest and employ because they were well-run businesses, well invested and sufficiently staffed to maximize their profitability.
There is truth to this argument.
In fact, most corporate investment today comes not from retained earnings but from borrowing.
Bringing a foreign profit stash home has little effect on investment incentives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the question should resonate in an administration that came to power on a promise to address the plight of the working class.
Because the working class stands on the other end of a deal with the corporate class.
I dont think it is possible to fully address workers demands without understanding, and changing, corporate motivations.
Many forces have shaped this deal, including technology, which replaced workers performing routine tasks, and globalization, which squeezed the margins of many businesses and exposed their workers to competition from cheap labor markets.
And yet it would be a mistake to ignore the impact of a corporate ethos that has come to focus on rewarding shareholders and executives at the expense of any other consideration  be it workers welfare or even the companys long-term sustainability.
Indeed, workers today amount to little more than a line on the cost side of businesses balance sheets, with little claim to its prosperity.
Corporate profits have risen over the last quarter-century, as a share of the nations income, even as the workers share has shrunk.
While executive pay has soared  padded with stock options and shares  the earnings of ordinary workers are below where they were in the 1970s.
Whats more, the pensions that ensured workers a retirement perch in the middle class have been replaced by 401(k) savings accounts  which are cheaper for companies but put workers retirement prospects at the mercy of the stock market.
How you divide the pie is a choice, said Rick Wartzman, who heads the KH Moon Center for a Functioning Society at the Drucker Institute of Claremont Graduate University.
It is being carved differently.
The change has happened across the board.
In his book The End of Loyalty, published in May by Public Affairs, Mr. Wartzman lays out a shift in corporate culture both in success stories like Coca-Cola and General Electric and in less successful ones, like Eastman Kodak and General Motors.
For workers, the story was the same, whether they were working at a winner or a losing firm, he said.
The good news is that it is not impossible to modify the behavior of the corporate leaders who have so drastically altered the contract with their work force over the last few decades.
While it may be tempting to cast the new breed of executives as selfish villains who somehow lost their sense of right and wrong, the shift in their behavior responded to a shift in the incentives they faced.
It was fed by a belief that snaked its way three or four decades ago from the halls of the University of Chicago through investment-bank trading floors and into the corner offices of corporate America: that the interests of corporate managers must be brought into tight alignment with those of shareholders.
It was accompanied by one of the most destabilizing propositions in the modern history of corporate governance: This alignment was best achieved by paying corporate managers almost exclusively with stock.
Mihir A. Desai of Harvard Business School argues that this strategy amounted to outsourcing corporate compensation decisions to the capital markets  which have no way of telling whether the rise or fall in shares is caused by executives strategies or simply luck.
This produced an enormous bubble in chief executive pay  which rose in tandem with the stock.
It also made chief executives jobs more uncertain, vulnerable to market downturns.
And it vastly distorted their behavior, putting every decision at the service of the share price at the close of the quarter.
Professor Desai points out that in the end, this structure does not really serve shareholders, at least not those with an interest in a companys prosperity more than a few quarters down the road.
Capitalism seems to be serving managers and investment managers at the expense of shareholders, he wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing this behavior is not beyond the reach of policy.
Just as changes in the tax treatment of executive pay in the 1990s encouraged stock-based remuneration, tax reforms might motivate corporate executives to invest for the long term rather than for an immediate stock bump  maybe even encourage stable employment and worker training.
Until then, offering tax breaks to American corporations seems more likely to line the pockets of executives and shareholders than to improve their long-term prospects or the prosperity of their workers.
This week, Target said it would raise its minimum hourly wage to $11 next month and then to $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
On Tuesday, Ms. Yellen visited Cuyahoga Community College, which runs job-training programs to help workers gain skills and help employers find qualified workers.
Swagelok, an Ohio company that manufactures industrial parts, has started offering guaranteed internships to students who complete an eight-week training program at the college.
Christopher Koszewski, 55, enrolled after 17 years as a truck driver, eager for less dangerous work and higher pay.
You can go on Craigslist every day and see five to seven new want ads for skilled machinists, Mr. Koszewski said.
Its a target-rich environment.
The economic mystery is that inflation has remained low despite the tightening labor market.
The Fed has undershot its goal of 2 percent annual inflation in each of the past five years.
After getting close early this year, inflation has swooned again.
Low inflation is a concern because it keeps nominal interest rates at a relatively low level, Ms. Yellen said, limiting the Feds ability to respond to economic downturns.
Some Fed officials argue that it is also a sign the economy is weaker than it appears.
Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said Monday in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the Fed should wait for stronger inflation before raising interest rates.
Referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy, Mr. Evans said, Inflation has been lower than the F.O.M.C.s 2 percent target for too long, and there is little in the recent data to suggest that inflation will soon rise to target.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has warned that the Fed may be contributing to the problem by failing to convince the public through its actions that it is committed to raising inflation back to 2 percent.
That, however, remains a minority opinion among Fed policy makers.
Ms. Yellen and her closest allies have continued to describe low inflation as an aberration.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Monday in Syracuse  a city at the same latitude as Grand Rapids  that he expected inflation to rise in the coming months, and that he expected the Fed to keep raising interest rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Fed policy makers generally agree that a surplus of workers eases inflation, while a shortage of workers leads to higher inflation.
In her judgment, Ms. Yellen said, this is a Goldilocks moment  the labor market is neither too hot nor too cold.
I view the data we have in hand as suggesting a generally healthy labor market, not one in which substantial slack remains or one that is overheated, Ms. Yellen said.
She said the weakness of inflation in recent years reflected other factors, including idiosyncratic events like a price war among cellphone service providers.
This year, she said, the weakness is harder to explain.
I think my main message about what weve been seeing is that 2017, the shortfall in inflation is a mystery, she said.
Ms. Yellen explored three explanations for the weakness in her remarks.
Some economists argue that the low unemployment rate is a misleading measure of the health of the labor market because it does not account for the recent increase in the share of American adults who are neither working nor looking for work.
Some of those people are returning to work as the economy gains strength.
The high cost of child care kept Jessica Dicus out of the work force for the past 10 years, but she recently enrolled in the same training program as Mr. Koszewski.
She is paying $4,200; when she completes the program, she will make $15 an hour.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I never planned on being out of the labor force for so long, said Ms. Dicus, 37, who served in the Army before starting a family.
Now its time for me to get on with my life.
The Fed under Ms. Yellen has prolonged its stimulus program, but she said she saw clear evidence the labor market was strengthening.
For example, the percentage of firms planning wage increases has returned to its pre-recession level, she said.
Ms. Yellen gave more credence to the theory espoused by Mr. Evans: the possibility that Americans are losing confidence the Fed will return inflation to 2 percent, and that those diminished expectations in turn are reducing the pace of inflation.
Finally, she said that changes in the structure of the economy, such as slower growth in health care costs, might be suppressing inflation even as the labor market tightened.
These significant uncertainties about the likely pace of inflation weighed in favor of caution in raising rates, she said.
Moving too quickly risks overadjusting policy to head off projected developments that may not come to pass, she said.
The Feds concern about low inflation strikes some critics as misplaced.
I cant work up any enthusiasm for that issue, said Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at Harvard.
I cant see why anybody other than a professional economist or a journalist who covers these issues should care about whether inflation is 1.6 percent or 2 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said he shared in the general puzzlement that inflation was not rising more quickly, but he said the Feds sole concern was to keep it that way.
I was there when the inflation rate was 10 percent in the late 1970s, he said.
If somebody told me we would have zero inflation, I would say thats O.K.
We have been really treated very, very nicely by the governor, Mr. Trump said of Mr. Rossello, whose island is without power, water or fuel  putting it, the governor said on Monday, on the brink of a humanitarian crisis.
The busy hurricane season of 2017 has given fresh purpose to a president who, until now, made most of his own weather inside the West Wing.
On Tuesday, he said he would visit Puerto Rico and the storm-ravaged Virgin Islands next week.
The White House issued photos of a grave-looking Mr. Trump being briefed in the Situation Room.
But the hurricanes are yet another reminder of this presidents rare capacity for self-congratulation  a trait that seems particularly ill-suited to the aftermath of deadly disasters, when the plight of people who lost homes or even family members would seem to take precedence over testimonials to FEMA.
From the start, Mr. Trump has had trouble separating himself from the story.
On his first visit to Texas after Hurricane Harvey swamped Houston, the president went to a firehouse in Corpus Christi, nearly 220 miles away, for a briefing with federal, state and local officials that stopped just short of being a pep rally.
Well congratulate each when its all finished, he told the group.
Outside, he greeted a crowd of about 1,000 who had gathered by saying, What a crowd!
What a turnout!
Four days later, Mr. Trump returned to the state  this time, to meet actual victims of the storm.
He handed out cardboard boxes with hot dogs and potato chips to residents in Houston, and talked about the love he had seen in the NRG Center, a convention center converted into a shelter for nearly 1,200 people.
But he could not resist a victory lap.
Theyre really happy with whats going on, he told reporters traveling with him.
Its something thats been very well received.
Even by you guys, its been very well received.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Florida, after Hurricane Irma roared up the Gulf Coast, Mr. Trump seemed more at ease in his role as a consoler.
At a ruined mobile home park in Naples, he handed out encouragement along with hoagies.
But when one man yelled, Where was Obama during the last hurricane?
On a golf course, Mr. Trump stopped and asked whether he had voted for him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Best vote of your life?
the president said, with a grin.
Puerto Rico, unlike Texas and Florida, is not Trump country.
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida trounced him in the Republican primary there in March 2016.
And Mr. Trump has been noticeably less vocal about the damage from Hurricane Maria.
Over the weekend, as Puerto Ricans ran perilously low on food, water and fuel, he posted nothing about the crisis.
Yet he posted 17 tweets about sports  from the dispute he single-handedly revived over the N.F.L.
and the national anthem to his withdrawal of an invitation for Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors to visit the White House.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump denied that he had neglected Puerto Rico in favor of his feud with professional athletes.
Ive heard that before: Was I preoccupied?
he said.
Not at all, not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
Some residents of the Virgin Islands, parts of which were leveled by Irma, feel similarly overlooked by Washington.
Kenneth E. Mapp, the governor, assured them that Mr. Trump had told him he loves the Virgin Islands.
When the president finally did get around to addressing Puerto Rico, on Monday, he led off with some unsympathetic observations about the territorys well-publicized fiscal problems.
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble, he said in a series of tweets.
Its old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities  and doing well.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said he had deployed Navy ships to Puerto Rico.
His homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, and the FEMA administrator, Brock Long, traveled there to meet with officials.
But even then, Mr. Trump said less about the resilience of the people than about the territorys problems.
The federal government, he said, had to take over some security because police officers, having lost their homes, had gone off duty.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After his news conference, Mr. Trump tweeted, Americas hearts & prayers are with the people of #PuertoRico & the #USVI.
We will get through this  and we will get through this TOGETHER!
To the extent that Mr. Trump lauded Puerto Rican officials, however, it was for their praise and gratitude for his administrations efforts.
We have had tremendous reviews from government officials, as we have in Texas and Louisiana, and as we have in Florida, Mr. Trump said, singling out Greg Abbott of Texas and Rick Scott of Florida as great governors.
For a moment, it looked like he would pay a similar tribute to the governor of Puerto Rico, Mr. Rossell.
The governor has been so incredible in his, Mr. Trump said, pausing a beat, in his statements about the job were doing.
A new poll of 2,200 adults by Morning Consult found that only 54 percent of Americans know that people born in Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, are U.S. citizens.
(Because Puerto Rico is not a state, they do not vote in presidential elections, but they send one nonvoting representative to Congress.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This finding varied significantly by age and education.
Only 37 percent of people ages 18 to 29 know people born in Puerto Rico are citizens, compared with 64 percent of those 65 or older.
Similarly, 47 percent of Americans without a college degree know Puerto Ricans are Americans, compared with 72 percent of those with a bachelors degree and 66 percent of those with a postgraduate education.
Inaccurate beliefs on this question matter, because Americans often support cuts to foreign aid when asked to evaluate spending priorities.
In our poll, support for additional aid was strongly associated with knowledge of the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans.
More than 8 in 10 Americans who know Puerto Ricans are citizens support aid, compared with only 4 in 10 of those who do not.
Percent of Americans Who Support Aid for Puerto Rico About half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, and they are more likely to support aid.
Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44 Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44

Being informed about the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans also modestly increases support for aid.
Over all, 64 percent of Americans in the poll who were given no additional information said that Puerto Rico should receive additional government aid to help rebuild the territory, while 14 percent said it was not necessary and 20 percent said they did not know or had no opinion.
But when a random sample of participants was informed that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens before answering this question, support for aid increased four percentage points, to 68 percent.
These effects were especially large for Republicans (+9 percentage points), Trump voters (+10 percentage points) and Hispanic respondents (+12 percentage points).
For example, 67 percent of Trump voters who saw a prompt informing them that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens supported additional aid, compared with 57 percent who did not see the prompt.
These findings are consistent with research showing that people tend to allocate contributions in laboratory games toward fellow members of their group.
They also underline the pivotal role the news media can play in shaping public sympathies.
Previous research has found that competing stories can crowd foreign disasters out of the news, reducing aid provided by the United States.
In this case, the lack of media attention could lead people to ignore Puerto Ricos plight.
Our sympathies for other people depends in part on whether we see them as fellow members of our tribe.
Without more coverage, it may be easy to forget that the people suffering are our fellow Americans.
Morning Consult data was collected from Sept. 22-24, 2017, among a national sample of 2,200 adults.
The interviews were conducted online, and the data was weighted to approximate a target sample of adults based on age, race/ethnicity, gender, educational attainment and region.
Dalos told Brown that he had seen the police around Fawnbrook and that the victims mother told him that the boys had been arrested.
He also pointed Brown to a couple of Facebook groups that were created in response to the crime.
Brown scrolled through them on his cellphone and saw links flying back and forth with articles that said that the little girl had been gang raped at knife point, that the perpetrators were Syrian refugees and that their fathers had celebrated with them afterward by giving them high fives.
The stories also claimed that the City Council and the police department were conspiring to bury the crime.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, Brown plowed through his daily packs of cigarettes as he watched hundreds, then thousands, of people joining the groups.
Their panic appeared to be piqued by a mass shooting, the deadliest in American history, that had just occurred at Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
The perpetrator had declared allegiance to ISIS.
The commenters also posted stories that claimed refugees were responsible for a rash of rapes in Europe and that a similar phenomenon in the United States was imminent.
My girl is blond and blue-eyed, one woman wrote.
I am extremely worried about her safety.
The details of the Fawnbrook case, as it became known, were still unclear to Brown, but he was skeptical of what he was reading.
For one thing, he knew from his own previous reporting that no Syrians had been resettled in Twin Falls after all.
He woke up early on Monday to get a head start on clarifying things as much as possible in order to write a follow-up article.
Before he got into the office, a friend texted him, telling him to check the Drudge Report.
At the top, a headline screamed: REPORT: Syrian Refugees Rape Little Girl at Knifepoint in Idaho.
Photo

As the only city of any size for 100 miles in any direction, Twin Falls serves as a modest hub within southern Idahos vast agricultural sprawl.
Its population of about 45,000 nearly doubles each day as people travel there to work, primarily in the thriving agribusinesses.
But its bucolic rhythms still allow for children to play outside unattended and make driving a meditative experience.
Surrounding the city and sprinkled among its tidy tract neighborhoods, potatoes, alfalfa, sugar beets and corn grow in fields.
Half a million dairy cows in the area produce three-quarters of the states milk supply.
Because of its location, Twin Falls is home to major food processors like Chobani Yogurt, Clif Bar and Glanbia Nutritionals, a dairy company.
All have large facilities in town and have helped to push down the unemployment rate to just under 3 percent, below the national average.
The wealth of easy-to-find low-skilled jobs made Twin Falls attractive as a place for resettling refugees, and they began arriving in the 1980s, at that time mostly from Cambodia and the former Yugoslavia.
Nearly 2,500 refugees have moved to the town over the years.
Most Twin Falls residents are churchgoing, and about half of those are Mormons.
Locally owned stores and restaurants are generally closed on Sundays, and the city has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936.
Liberals often register as Republicans just to have an opportunity to participate in the electoral process, by voting in the primaries.
If a Republican is going to win regardless, the thinking goes, they would at least like to play a role in deciding which one prevails.
The same qualities that bind the townspeople together can, in turn, be alienating to newcomers.
The refugee community has begun to experience this effect as its demographic makeup has changed.
Over the past decade and a half, as conflict spread across North Africa and the Middle East, Twin Falls started to resettle larger numbers of refugees with darker skin who follow an unfamiliar religion  two things that make it difficult to blend into a town that is 80 percent white.
On a national scale, an ascendant network of anti-Muslim activists and provocateurs has exploited the fears brought on by these changes, finding a platform and a receptive audience online.
The narrative they espouse  on blogs with names like Jihad Watch  is that America, currently 1 percent Muslim, is in the midst of an Islamic invasion.
Central to the worldview of these bloggers, some of whom have celebrity-size social-media followings, is that Muslims have a propensity toward sexual violence.
They seize on any news item that bolsters this notion.
Perhaps their biggest touchstone is an incident that took place in Cologne, Germany, on New Years Eve in 2015.
Mobs of men, many of them asylum seekers from the Middle East, pick-pocketed and groped more than a thousand women in and around a train station.
The German police acknowledged the incident had taken place only under pressure, as the womens stories began to leak out through the media.
This established, for these activists, the contours of a narrative that they believe has been repeating itself.
The Fawnbrook incident quickly drew their interest.
What happened in Twin Falls was sadly somewhat commonplace but not in the way the activists believed.
The local Police Department investigates sex crimes on a weekly basis, and in about half a dozen of those that proceed to court each year, the victims and the accused are both minors.
If its younger kids, its them being curious, J.R. Paredez, the lead investigator on the case, explained to me.
Some children who act out sexually have been victimized themselves, he said, while others have been exposed to explicit material at home or at school or, as is more common recently, on their cellphones.
As they start to get older, theres more of the actual sexual component to it.
Two weeks after the incident, the boys were charged with lewd and lascivious behavior against a minor.
(The 14-year-old who lent his cellphone to the boys was initially charged with the same crime.
He was not present in the laundry room, and his charge was eventually reduced to make him an accessory.)
In Idaho, this statute applies to physical contact done with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of such person, such minor child, or third party.
Paredez said that the cellphone video made clear what specifically had happened between the children, but that he couldnt show it to the reporters who asked him about it, because doing so would have constituted criminal distribution of child pornography.
He called most of the details that he read about the case on the internet 100 percent false, like not even close to being accurate.
(The family of the accused declined to comment.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As more time passed without a solid account of what happened inside the laundry room, lurid rumors continued to surface online and came to dominate conversations in grocery stores and at school events.
And while the City Council members did not have control over the case, the bloggers who wrote about it placed much of the blame on them.
On the Monday when Twin Falls was the top story on Drudge, the City Council held another weekly meeting.
Normally only a handful of people attend, and Brown is one of the few reporters among them.
But that night, the auditorium filled until there was standing room only, and television news crews appeared from Boise and other nearby cities.
When it came time for public comments, one man got up and praised the citys handling of the case, followed by more than a dozen others who laid into the council members.
Terry Edwards handed each of them a small copy of the Constitution and told them to do their jobs.
A woman named Vicky Davis, her hair in a satiny white bob, stood up and proclaimed that Islam had declared jihad on America.
They are not compatible with our culture, she said.
They hate us.
They dont want to be Americans.
They dont want to assimilate.
What do you need to see?
What more proof do you need?
This was a highly unusual meeting, but Brown wasnt exactly surprised.
Several months earlier, when the anti-refugee activists began to organize, he started reading up to try to better understand their views.
He picked up a book by Ann Coulter and began to follow the anti-refugee blogs.
At the meeting, he felt as if he were hearing all that he had read being repeated aloud by his neighbors.
Kingsbury, the police chief, read from a statement while fumbling with a thicket of microphones piled onto the lectern by visiting reporters.
In between exasperated breaths, he explained why he could not disclose the details of the incident but said that he could address some of the misinformation that was spreading online.
There was no evidence of a knife, he said, or of any celebration afterward or of a cover-up, and no Syrians were involved: The boys were from Sudan and Iraq.
Im a kid who grew up in Idaho, he said.
Law enforcement takes these types of allegations very seriously.
However, we cant act on them within an hour.
Its not like a crime show.
He told the audience that the boys had been arrested, to applause.
But online, Kingsburys words only inflamed the activists more.
Just after midnight, someone posted his work email address on Jihad Watch, along with those of the council members and the mayor.
A commenter on another website called The Muslim Issue posted the phone numbers and email addresses for the towns government officials, the head of the refugee-resettlement center and some administrators at the college, which runs the refugee resettlement program.
From there, the information spread to more blogs and to the comments sections of far-right news outlets with massive audiences.
Photo

By 9 the next morning, messages were pouring into the inbox of the mayor of Twin Falls, Shawn Barigar, nearly every minute.
Barigar grew up in a neighboring town and went to work in Boise as a television news anchor before moving back to start a family.
His even keel and the air of sophistication he picked up while living in a comparatively big city have made him popular politically.
He is left of the town on many social issues, which has made some of his constituents suspicious of him.
But most of the people who contacted him that summer were from other states and even other countries.
Some people demanded that the city pay for a new car and apartment for the victim and her family.
Others said that local officials attempts to correct inaccurate details about the incident were veiled efforts to suggest that no crime had occurred at all, in order to protect the refugees.
Others accused him of being a globalist, a word that has taken on many definitions but in this case meant he was part of a vast, arcane conspiracy.
They believed that establishment politicians wanted to turn red states like Idaho blue by starting wars and then importing refugees from those war zones as cheap labor who would not only displace American workers but also reliably vote Democratic.
Many of the people who wrote to the mayor had a much simpler goal: to unleash their hatred of Islam.
One message, with the subject line Muslims, said that refugees were committing rapes and hit-and-runs and urinating on women and that the mayor was guilty of treason.
Its out of the bag, [expletive], it read.
We will and are holding you responsible for any and all crimes committed by these quote refugees.
No courts.
No police.
Just us.
You will answer to us in the darkness of night.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The next day, Camille Barigar, the mayors wife, arrived in her office at the college, where she ran the performing-arts center, and started listening to her voice mail.
In a calm, measured voice, a man who sounded as if he was reading from a script went on for nearly four minutes.
I wonder, Miss Barigar, if your residence was posted online and your whereabouts identified, how you would feel if half a dozen Muslim men raped and sodomized you, Miss Barigar, and when you tried to scream, broke every tooth in your mouth, he said.
And then I wonder how youd feel if, when you went to the Twin Falls Police Department, they told you to run along, that this is simply cultural diversity.
The caller said that life was becoming difficult in the United States, just as it had in England.
He referenced Jo Cox, a British member of Parliament who spoke out in support of refugees and later met with opposition in the form of a bullet to the head.
Shes dead now, he said.
Theyve buried her.
Photo

The Twins Falls story aligned perfectly with the ideology that Stephen Bannon, then the head of Breitbart News, had been developing for years, about the havoc brought on by unchecked immigration and Islamism, all of it backed by big-business interests and establishment politicians.
Bannon latched onto the Fawnbrook case and used his influence to expand its reach.
During the weeks leading up to his appointment in August 2016 to lead Donald J. Trumps campaign for president, Twin Falls was a daily topic of discussion on Bannons national radio show, where he called it the beating heart of all that the coming presidential election was about.
He sent his lead investigative reporter, Lee Stranahan, to the town to investigate the case, boasting to his audience that Stranahan was a pit bull of a reporter.
Were going to let him off the chain, he said.
Then 50, Stranahan was relatively new to journalism.
He had spent a few decades as a television producer and a graphic illustrator in Los Angeles, and on the side he shot erotic photography, which is how he met his wife.
Stranahans transition into journalism began during the television writers strike of 2007 and 2008.
To keep himself entertained, he created parody political advertisements and posted them on YouTube.
One of the first was a satirical Rudy Giuliani ad, asking Republican primary voters to support him because he had taken good care of his mistress, offering her private security courtesy of the N.Y.P.D., whereas Mitt Romney didnt even bother to take on a paramour.
Stranahan says that within weeks, the videos led to invitations to appear on CNN and to meet with a vice president at NBC and to a job offer, which he accepted, writing political comedy for The Huffington Post.
In college, Stranahan was a libertarian and even attended Ayn Rands funeral.
But when he moved to California, he became a liberal, vehemently opposing the Iraq war and the presidency of George W. Bush.
He voted for Barack Obama in 2008.
Two years later, Stranahan interviewed Andrew Breitbart, a fellow Huffington Post alumnus, for an article he was writing about Jon Stewarts Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear.
They spoke for more than three hours, bonding over their shared love of Depeche Mode.
Eventually, Breitbart became Stranahans mentor, converted him to conservatism and offered him a job.
In 2011, Breitbart took Stranahan to the Conservative Political Action Conference and introduced him to Michele Bachmann, who, in Stranahans recollection, convinced him that she had uncovered disturbing details about Islam that no one in the establishment was willing to talk about.
Stranahan says this conversation was the genesis of his concerns about the religion.
Stranahan arrived in Idaho in August, after covering the national party conventions.
The sealed nature of the case prevented any journalist from an exhaustive examination, and the accused and the victims families refused to speak to the mainstream media.
But Stranahan thrived in the void of facts.
He was granted one of the few interviews with the victims family, but his account of the crime offered little more information than others had  and far more inaccuracies, according to the police and the county prosecutor.
He described what took place as a horrific gang rape and wrote graphic details about the incident, which the Twin Falls Police say are untrue.
On Breitbart radio, Stranahan openly wondered whether Barigar, the mayor, was a big, you know, Shariah supporter.
And he suggested repeatedly that mass rapes by refugees had occurred in Europe and were inevitably coming to the United States.
If you want to wait until your country turns into France or Cologne, Germany.
If you want to wait, you can wait, he warned the audience.
But if you want to watch it and stop it now, youve got a chance to do it in November.
Photo

Stranahan says his Breitbart editors sent him to Twin Falls to report on the Muslim takeover of the town.
(Breitbart denies this and says its absurd.)
But he soon became enamored of a grander theory about what was happening in southern Idaho: globalism.
He wrote that local businesses received government kickbacks for employing foreigners instead of Americans.
(Stranahan did not cite any evidence of this, and it is untrue, according to the state Department of Labor.)
And he often referred to a Syrian refugee crisis, though no Syrians were ever resettled there.
Then, to bring the story full circle, he claimed these Muslim refugees were being used to replace American workers and that the government, big business and law enforcement were either conspiring to conceal the sexual-assault case or intentionally looking the other way, in order to keep the machine turning.
Bottom line, this is bad for business, he told me in an interview last winter, explaining his interpretation of the city officials rationale:  Im not really going to look into this too deeply because if I find out the truth, if I discover what actually happened, if I figure out the truth, its not really good for business.
Stranahan believed that Chobani, a Greek-yogurt company, was at the center of the scheme.
Breitbart had been covering the company for months, ever since the owner, Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-born businessman, made a speech at the World Economic Forum at Davos encouraging other chief executives to pledge financial and political support to refugees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While he was in town, Stranahan embedded with critics of the refugee program.
They drove him to some of his interviews and to the yogurt factory to shoot drone footage.
Stranahan doesnt get around well on his own in part because he has been mostly blind in one eye since grade school, when a neighborhood kid threw a rock at him, shattering his right optic nerve.
Rather than a round pupil, his is jagged-edged, and so large that it nearly covers his iris.
He shuffles when he walks because of neuropathic foot pain from diabetes, which he regulates by eating a ketogenic diet, usually one meal a day, consisting entirely of protein and fat.
In Twin Falls, he subsisted most days on blackened chicken from Popeyes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the three months he was in Twin Falls, City Council members refused his interview requests, leaving him stuck inside an echo chamber with the activists, which he amplified online.
When I was in Twin Falls, I found myself empathizing: These same activists refused to speak with me.
One of the most outspoken among them is a woman named Julie DeWolfe, who lives atop a grassy hill 20 minutes outside town and who spent significant time with Stranahan.
When I went there to ask for an interview, she came outside with several barking dogs and told me to leave.
The company you work for is not trustworthy, she said.
As the summer came to a close, The Times-News was bombarded with threatening phone calls and email from all over.
After it received a threat that was deemed credible enough to engage the F.B.I., the editor of the paper told Brown and the other reporters to conduct their interviews outside the office and ordered the entire staff to walk in pairs when going out to their cars.
For months, the reporters covered protests around town, which were widely hyped on social media but, for the most part, sparsely attended.
At least once the Police Department deployed plainclothes officers into the crowds, with instructions to look after the journalists.
Later, it turned out that fake Facebook accounts linked to the Russian government helped to spread stories about Twin Falls and even organized one of the rallies there.
The event was also poorly attended but is the first known Russian attempt to spark a demonstration on American soil.
The phone and email attacks continued through the fall and spiked each time a new conspiracy theory was posted online.
One council member told me that she gained 15 pounds from the stress.
At night, Shawn Barigar would lie down with his iPad and spend hours reading stories that called him a crook, a liar or an ISIS sympathizer.
He had to shut down his Twitter account after someone accused him of having been convicted of sexual assault.
Before he could debunk the myth, the post had spread, leaving untold numbers of constituents under the impression that he was a rapist.
He stopped sleeping and struggled to focus at work or to be present with his family.
He and his wife say they bickered all summer.
It was like being in a hole, he told me, his eyes welling up with tears.
It was all-consuming.
Stranahan now works out of a trendy shared workspace in Washington, across the street from the White House.
He quit his job at Breitbart, which he said was being mismanaged in Bannons absence, to host a drive-time FM radio show with Sputnik, a state-run Russian news outlet.
He told me that he jumped at the chance to transition to a Kremlin-funded outfit and, knowing that it would be controversial, spoke to every media outlet that inquired about it, in order to draw even more people to his work.
He expressed no contrition about the reporting he did in Twin Falls, though many of the conclusions that he drew on the radio and online have been debunked.
Still, many of the outlets that covered Twin Falls made only minor tweaks to their stories or did nothing at all.
Many of the falsehoods that were written about the Fawnbrook case still appear at the top of a Google search of the city.
The most transparent course-correction resulted from a lawsuit against Alex Jones, the publisher of InfoWars, for its misleading stories about Chobani.
After initially vowing to fight the yogurt company in court, Jones retracted several stories and issued an apology in order to make a lawsuit go away.
Stranahan said that his editors forced him off the Twin Falls story during the fall and suggested that they had done so under threat from Chobani.
(Breitbart denies this.)
Stranahan and I spoke a handful of times over the course of the last year, each time for several hours.
Talking with him feels like being inside one of his conspiracy theories.
When you ask him a question, he begins to answer and then immediately swerves in a different direction, bouncing like a pinball between topics that barely connect to one another  from the Fawnbrook case to clitorectomies and stoning, then Syrian refugees, then a prominent Wahhabi cleric  and seems to increase in velocity as he ricochets off them.
Its an exhausting exercise, but also a fascinating one.
He seems perpetually on the precipice of pulling the argument together, sparking just enough curiosity that you let him keep going.
Stranahan uses this talent most effectively in his work, painting himself as a champion of people who are understandably uninformed about other cultures and religions based on their own experiences.
Its just easy to brand these people as a bunch of Islamophobic, racist yokels, he told me, with a hint of disgust in his voice.
I just dont like it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Stranahan struck me as passionate about his stories; not about their veracity but about the freedom he and the critics of refugee resettlement should have to speculate as they wanted without being belittled by the fact-mongering mainstream.
When I reached him by phone this June, he told me he was planning to travel back to Idaho for more reporting on Fawnbrook, now that he was no longer constrained by his editors at Breitbart.
He told me that he believed that he had uncovered another dimension of his globalist theory related to Chobanis participation in the federal school-lunch program.
He felt compelled to follow up on the earlier coverage, because he was frustrated that Alex Jones and others were forced to retract their stories and apologize under pressure.
I dont like people getting shut up like that, he said.
Even if their stories have problems, I dont like journalists getting shut down.
I started to ask why anyone should be allowed to publish false information for the express purpose of angering their audience and pushing them further away from those with whom they disagree, but Stranahan cut me off.
Hey, Im walking into the White House right now, he said.
He had just arrived for a press briefing with the presidents spokesman.
Let me call you back.
This April, the boys accused in the Fawnbrook case admitted guilt  the juvenile court equivalent to pleading guilty  and were sentenced in June.
The judge prohibited city officials from commenting on the outcome of the trial, but juvenile-justice experts told me that the boys would most likely be placed on probation and required to attend mandatory therapy to correct their behavior.
Even in Idaho, a state with tough sentencing requirements, the law bars anyone under 10 from being jailed and only allows it in extreme cases for anyone under 12.
Late one Monday night in June I received a phone call from Dalos, the Scanner Man.
He asked if I had heard about the fireworks flying around Twin Falls.
The news of the boys fate had somehow reached the public.
The suspects didnt go to jail or nothing, he said, adding that people in town were irate.
Facebook posts about the story were again flooding his feed.
Theyre blaming it on Muslim law, he said.
One of the articles circulating, from a site called Bare Naked Islam, included a photograph of the judge in the case with a large red arrow pointing toward his head, next to the caption Corrupt Judge.
Another article published the judges home address and phone number, inciting another flood of harassment, a year after the initial onslaught.
Shawn and Camille Barigars bickering has subsided, but they have discovered that they disagree over whether Islamic teachings conflict with American social norms.
I cant take the leap, Shawn told me, that because you are Muslim therefore you are reading the Quran verbatim, and youre going to go out and do genital mutilation.
Camille said she supported the local resettlement program but thought that her husbands unwillingness to even consider cultural differences or acknowledge any nuance was nave.
I think weve got to be careful, she said.
And I dont want to be afraid to talk about it entirely or, like, sound racist.
It is precisely this discomfort that provides an opening for people like Stranahan to dominate the conversation.
Part of the reason a fear of Islam has persisted in Twin Falls is because the local leadership refused to defuse it, according to Matt Christensen, 36, the editor of The Times-News.
While Brown wrote articles that sorted out the truth about the Fawnbrook case, Christensen was publishing commentary that castigated the people who were spreading falsehoods.
He told me that he had closed-door meetings with city officials, in which he asked them to write guest editorials doing the same, but none of them did.
Christensen suspected that they were afraid of one of the most reliable political dangers in the region, the same force that leads would-be Democrats there to register as Republicans: being outflanked on the right is the quickest way to lose your job.
Behind closed doors, they would all tell you they were pro-refugee, and we wanted them to step forward and make that declaration in a public arena, and it just never really happened, he told me.
That was frustrating to us especially at the beginning because it really felt like the newspaper was out there all alone.
He continued: There were days where we felt like, Godammit, what are we doing here?
We write a story and its going to reach 50,000 people.
Breitbart writes a story and its going to reach 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million people.
What kind of a voice do we have in this debate?
The refugee resettlement center received a dramatic increase in donations from local residents during the last year.
But those in the town who support the program have often been drowned out by the relatively smaller, but louder, group of activists who oppose it.
Brown said he expected to see an anti-Shariah bill introduced in the State Legislature when the next session starts in 2018.
Bills like this, which try to bar Islamic law from being used in American courts, have been introduced in the past two years in Boise but never passed.
He speculated that the momentum of the past year could force a different outcome.
There are a lot of people who feel like society is changing too quickly, like the community is changing too quickly, he told me.
And who view other people not like them or who dont speak their language as a threat or a sign that their culture is going to be weakened.
And they want to do what they can to stop that.
We did not come here to defy Donald Trump, said the once and current head of the hard-right Breitbart News, invoking William Shakespeare.
We came here to praise and honor him.
Mr. Bannon did, though, take aim at the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has helped oversee a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign against Mr. Moore, calling Mr. McConnell and his allies the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country.
A vote for Mr. Moore, Mr. Bannon argued, is a vote for Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Pence, appearing with Mr.
Strange at an airport hangar in Birmingham, countered that Mr. Trumps endorsement was his alone to dispense  and reminded voters, over and over, that Mr. Trump had given it to Mr.
Strange.
Photo

The vice president recited a catechism of Mr. Trumps promises and positions, from his vows to build a wall on the Mexican border and repeal the Affordable Care Act, to his denunciations of athletes who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Strange, he said, would help make the presidents aspirations reality, as a real friend to President Trump.
Im here tonight to say: I stand with Luther, Mr. Pence declared.
I stand with President Donald Trump  and I will always stand for our national anthem.
Still, Mr. Pence also appeared to acknowledge the frustration that rank-and-file Republicans feel with the partys uneven performance in Washington.
Hours after Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, came out against the latest bill to undo the Affordable Care Act, seemingly dooming it, Mr. Pence noted that some Republicans in the Senate have resisted repeal legislation.
That dissension, Mr. Pence argued, made Mr. Stranges loyalty all the more valuable.
Reflecting the degree to which Mr.
Strange has presented himself as an avatar of the White House agenda, the senator spoke for only about two minutes at his own closing rally, offering a brief introduction of Mr. Pence.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Moore spent 20 minutes longer at the microphone after entering to the strains of Sweet Home Alabama clad in a leather vest and cowboy hat.
He also briefly brandished a pistol on stage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Alabama cant be bought, he declared, before winning his loudest applause of the night by declaring Mitch McConnell needs to be replaced.
With fans whirring overhead, the gathering at times seemed as much a revival as a political rally.
A host of speakers invoked God, and Mr. Moore ended his speech by assuring, I do know His hand is upon this, winning a chorus of yes, yes affirmation and nodding heads from the audience.
Even Mr. Bannon, who is not known for his overt religiosity, got into the spirit, albeit in his typically pugnacious style: He cited Ecclesiastes and assured that this moment was a time for war, at the least the political kind.
Photo

The mood did take a decided turn for the secular, though, when the British nationalist Nigel Farage took the stage not long after a former University of Alabama football star had offered the story of his Christian testimony.
Recounting the moment he received a phone call from Mr. Bannon asking that he trek to Alabama, Mr. Farage explained he had just mowed his lawn.
And Im thinking about having a drink, he explained to the heavily evangelical audience.
Only Tim James, son of a former governor here, dared to criticize Mr. Trump, predicting that the president would think twice before he jumps in a family feud again in the party.
The winner of Tuesdays runoff will face Doug Jones, a Democrat and former federal prosecutor, in the general election in December.
Mr. Stranges event, lacking Mr. Moores colorful array of activist speakers, featured a comparatively low-key, loafer- and blazer-sporting crowd, dotted with Republican Party staffers flown in from Washington.
Awaiting Mr. Pences arrival, Mr. Stranges supporters milled between a pair of oversize banners that summed up his candidacy: One read, Stand with Trump; the other, Vote for Luther, in white block letters on a blue field with red borders, after the fashion of Mr. Trumps campaign.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is far from clear that Alabamas Republican electorate will draw such a neat equation between supporting the president and backing Mr.
Strange.
Lynda Beasley, a Strange supporter from the Birmingham area, said Mr. Stranges loyalty to the president was a decisive factor for her.
He supports Trump and Trumps agenda, and I think thats important, Ms. Beasley, a nurse, said of Mr.
Strange.
I think Moores a good guy, but I think Luther will be more effective.
She added, of Mr. Moore: Hes got some baggage.
Mr. Trump himself, perhaps not wanting to be left out of an evening that drew heavy cable news coverage, even got his say Monday.
Big election tomorrow in the Great State of Alabama, he wrote on Twitter.
Vote for Senator Luther Strange, tough on crime & border - will never let you down!
Mr. Stones prepared statement presents him as a veteran of slash and burn political discourse caught up in a partisan and unsubstantiated smear campaign by members of the committee and the news media.
In not allowing him to testify publicly, his statement said, the committee was acting out of cowardice.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Stone wrote on Twitter on Monday that he also intended to release a statement after Tuesdays session.
I view this as a political proceeding because a number of members of this committee have made irresponsible, indisputably and provably false statements in order to create the impression of collusion with the Russian state without any evidence that would hold up in a U.S. court of law or the court of public opinion, Mr. Stone said in the remarks.
Chief among them, the statement said, is the suggestion that Mr. Stone knew in advance, or predicted, that John D. Podesta, the campaign chairman of the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, would be hacked or his emails released.
Not long before Mr. Podestas emails were released last fall, Mr. Stone wrote on Twitter that it will soon be the chairmans time in the barrel.
His prepared remarks, however, said that Mr. Stone was merely referring to his expectation that Mr. Podestas business connections to Ukraine would soon come to light, based in part on opposition research.
Mr. Stone is also expected to tell the House panel that he was never in direct communication with Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, and therefore did not know in advance about emails that were stolen from the Democratic National Committee during the campaign.
Rather, according to Mr. Stones prepared remarks, he learned about them on Twitter and later asked a journalist who knew Mr. Assange to confirm the report.
The statement does not dispute that Mr. Stone communicated with Guccifer 2.0, an online persona who American officials believe was a front in the Russian hacking efforts.
But it does say he believed that the interactions were entirely benign, and it casts doubt on American intelligence concluding that the online account was a Russian intelligence front.
On Monday, the ambassadors to the United States from Britain, France, Germany and the European Union met on a stage at the Atlantic Council in Washington to reinforce that message.
Grard Araud, the French ambassador, said that it was not just the Europeans who refused to renegotiate but also Iran as well as China and Russia.
Their position, he said, was, No way.
There wont be any reopening of the agreement.
The agreement is working as it is.
Should the United States end the agreement and attempt to penalize European companies doing business with Iran, David OSullivan, the European Unions ambassador, said that Europe could respond with its own measures against the United States.
Ive no doubt that if this scenario materializes, the European Union will act to protect the legitimate interests of our companies, he said.
For most of this year, Mr. Trump and Americas European allies have papered over stark differences on such issues as the Paris climate accord to preserve some semblance of Western unity.
But European officials say their patience with Mr. Trump may be nearing an end, and they view his possible abandonment of the Iran nuclear agreement as a potential breaking point.
These problems are on our doorstep, Kim Darroch, the British ambassador, said on Monday, adding: These issues matter to us and to our national security more than you could imagine.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Until recently, senior Trump administration officials had reassured their European counterparts that while a comprehensive review of Iran policy was underway, none thought that scrapping the nuclear deal would be a good idea, according to European officials and diplomats.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But in recent weeks, they have been told that Mr. Trump had told advisers that he will likely refuse next month to certify to Congress that Iran is in compliance with the deal.
In a meeting last week with British Prime Minister Theresa May, Mr. Trump said he had made a decision on the deal but refused to disclose what he had settled on.
In a speech three weeks ago at a conservative think tank, Nikki Haley, the Trump administrations ambassador to the United Nations, described in detail how and why such a decertification could occur.
And she said that European concerns about such a strategy would not deter Mr. Trump.
Decertifying the deal would give Congress 60 days under accelerated legislative provisions to vote to reimpose sanctions on Iran and any country doing business there.
Such a process would force Europe to accede to the Trump administrations demands for fear that powerful U.S. secondary sanctions and other instruments of financial power would force European banks and companies to choose between Americas $19 trillion-dollar market and Irans $400 billion one, said Mark Dubowitz, chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a prominent critic of the Iran deal.
Critics of the nuclear deal want stronger limits on Irans ballistic missile program, an end to its support of proxy forces like Hezbollah and an extension of limits on Irans nuclear capabilities beyond the timeline set out in the accord.
But European diplomats said they have been suggesting for months ways to accomplish all of those goals and have been stymied by the Trump administrations internal discord and ongoing Iran review.
We are coming all the time to this administration with ideas and policies, Mr. Darroch said.
Peter Wittig, the German ambassador, pointed out that when sanctions were first imposed on Iran over its nuclear ambitions, few American companies suffered because there was little trade between the United States and Iran.
German companies have suffered billions and billions and billions of dollars, Mr. Wittig said.
Now, he said, trade with Iran could help moderate the country.
We want Iran to gradually move to our values, to our worldview, and trade is an instrument, he said.
The speech was Mr. Obamas third to a financial crowd in the past month  he also spoke to clients of the money-management firm Northern Trust Corporation and the private-equity firm Carlyle Group  and gave some indication of how he has been navigating the moneymaking opportunities of his newly private life.
Since leaving the White House in January, the former president and his wife have reportedly won a $60 million joint book deal, and his speaking fees  including to Cantor  have gone as high as $400,000 per speech.
He has also vacationed on an exclusive island and taken up residence in an $8.1 million home.
That is all in addition to a spate of unpaid speeches, including one to at-risk youths in Chicago, and a separate event Monday for the Beau Biden Foundation, which focuses on protecting children from abuse and was named for the son of Vice President Joe Biden who died of cancer in 2015.
Since leaving office, President Obama has spent his time doing public and private events, both paid and unpaid, that are true to his values and his record, Kevin Lewis, the former presidents spokesman, wrote in an email.
Mr. Lewis added that the paid speeches had helped make it possible for Mr. Obama to contribute $2 million to employment and job-training programs for low-income young people in Chicago.
Mr. Lewis declined to comment on how the president, who has avoided much of the criticism faced by Hillary Clinton and other public officials who made paid speeches to private industry after leaving office, selects his paid engagements.
At the Cantor event, Mr. Obama arrived on stage nearly a minute after the brokerage firms chief executive, Howard Lutnick, introduced him.
Ive got to work on my entrance timing, Mr. Lutnick joked as he waited, and waited, by the microphone.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After his prepared remarks and a few longer questions, Mr. Obama participated in what Mr. Lutnick called a lightning round.
But Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost more than 600 employees on Sept. 11, 2001, in the attack on the World Trade Center, is not a top-tier player in investment banking.
Leaner and less well-known than Wall Street blue-bloods like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, it brokers trades and gives strategic advice to small and midsize corporations.
Health care is one of its specialties.
Still, its crowd on Monday was full of marquee industry names, with representatives from hedge funds like Citadel and Balyasny, investment firms like Bain and Ares, and biotech companies like Amgen.
Most of the attendees were Cantor clients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not everyone, however, was laser-focused on the guest of honor.
Before the main event, some attendees made a bet on how late the speech would start  one guessed 20 minutes, another guessed 30.
In one of the venues spillover rooms, where roughly 200 people watched the former president on a video monitor, a man in the back row dozed off while others texted or nibbled on pastrami baguettes.
Last week, Mr. Obama called attempts to undo the Affordable Care Act aggravating at a Gates Foundation event and on Monday he called them a cynical political exercise.
Hours later, the opposition of a key senator appeared to leave the latest repeal bill without the necessary support to pass.
He acknowledged that the current system has problems, including that some states had not expanded Medicaid to the extent allowed by the A.C.A., and that some insurers were not providing coverage to parts of rural states.
The solution to the lack of coverage, he said, was a public fallback plan.
Another problem, Mr. Obama added, was that the current administration has taken steps to make it harder for people to sign up for coverage during this years open enrollment period.
He hinted that helping publicize that period would be a personal priority of his this year.
As a private citizen, Im going to have to help do what I can to help people get that information, he said.
The White House did not comment on Mr. Obamas criticism on Monday evening.
Some audience members said that they were gratified by Mr. Obamas remarks.
The thing that impressed me the most about the discussion today is that he really tried to stay away from the politics, Sara Finan, an investor-relations consultant from Akron, Ohio, said after the event.
He acknowledged the faults of the A.C.A.
But at the same time, he looked at, Lets not try and reinvent the wheel.
Despite a mostly button-down tone, Mr. Obama was not entirely without mirth.
Toward the end of his speech he referred to President Trumps recent tweets aimed at N.F.L.
players.
Our big problem right now is politics, he said.
Cant even get it out of football!
The gap between the proposals accounts for about $700 billion in government revenues over a decade, according to the Tax Foundation.
Slashing the rate too far could bind the hands of tax writers as they seek to lower the tax bills of middle-class Americans.
Revenues from corporate taxes have fallen in recent years, even as Americas businesses have become more profitable.
According to the Tax Policy Center, the tax on corporate profits are estimated to represent just 2.2 percent of gross domestic product this year.
The tension over business taxes was on display on Sunday when Mr. Trump addressed corporate taxes while in New Jersey.
It was clear he was still trying to make his case for a lower rate.
Well see what happens, but I hope its going to be 15 percent, Mr. Trump said.
The framework is expected to closely resemble the Better Way blueprint that House Republicans released in 2016.
That plan also lowered tax rates for individuals, consolidated individual income tax brackets and nearly doubled the standard deduction.
The new plan will not include the contentious tax on imports that was championed by Mr. Brady and Speaker Paul D. Ryan but jettisoned by Republicans in July.
Deliberations are also continuing over a reduction to the top individual tax rate.
A White House official said that Mr. Trump had not yet signed off on a proposal to lower the rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent.
Mr. Trump has said that the rich will not see their tax bill shrink.
The Republican plan is expected to call for creating a 25 percent tax for pass through businesses.
Pass-throughs, which currently can include small businesses, farms and other types of partnerships, account for a vast majority of business income and their profits are taxed at individual income rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The framework is also expected to propose a shift to a territorial tax system, in which overseas earnings of American companies are not taxed in the United States.
However, sorting out such a shift and potential measures to prevent erosion of the tax base  like a controversial global minimum tax  are likely to be left to Congress.
Mr. Brady would not reveal how much, if any, detail on paying for the plan would be made public this week.
Under Senate rules, if the legislation adds to the deficit after a period of 10 years, some of the tax cuts could expire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We continue to be focused on permanency or as much of it as we can achieve, he said.
The framework is expected to be a starting point in a race to get a tax bill passed by the end of the year.
Mr. Brady said that more detailed legislative language would be produced after Congress passes a budget resolution that includes a tool, known as reconciliation instructions, allowing a tax bill to pass the Senate with a simple majority.
Republican leaders maintain that it is possible to swiftly pass the tax overhaul.
But the hard part is about to begin.
Legions of lobbyists who have spent their careers quietly roving around Washington, pushing to preserve beneficial tax structures, are ready to pounce.
The business community has been preparing for this moment for years, said Ken Spain, a tax lobbyist at the public affairs firm CGCN Group.
The biggest fight could come from the housing industry.
Realtors and homebuilders are bracing for a doubling of the standard deduction for individuals, which they contend could reduce incentives to buy houses, like the mortgage interest deduction, potentially leading to another housing market downturn.
Well start getting the grass roots involved, start doing public education and the conversation will quickly elevate, Jamie Gregory, a lobbyist at the National Association of Realtors, said of tax changes that could hurt the real estate business.
Retailers are closely watching the haggling between Mr. Trump and Congress over lowering the corporate tax rate.
They hope Mr. Trump wins.
The border adjustment tax was always a distraction from our No.
1 goal, which was to get to tax reform, and especially to get to the lowest possible corporate tax rate, said David French of the National Retail Federation.
Insurers say at least some of those increases were to account for the policy uncertainty brought by the Trump administration, which has indicated that it may hold back some routine payments to insurers and that it will reduce outreach to possible customers.
Complete market failure seems to have been averted: There is at least one insurer that has agreed to sell health plans in every county of the country.
But Republican critics of the law are right that many parts of the country will have just one insurer offering plans, and that single insurer may be charging very high prices for its products.
Photo

Most Obamacare customers wont feel the sting of higher premiums, because government subsidies limit their exposure to a percentage of their income.
But there are still millions of people who buy their own insurance and earn too much to qualify for subsidies.
The rocky market will be worse for them, and possibly unaffordable.
Senators in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee had been negotiating over a possible bipartisan deal to help stabilize the markets.
The expected package would guarantee the disputed payments to insurers and provide states with some policy flexibility in future years.
But that effort was shelved by congressional leadership as part of the failed push to pass the Graham-Cassidy health care overhaul.
Now, with contract signings imminent, it is probably too late for lawmakers to improve conditions much for next year.
(On the flip side, its probably also too late for President Trump to create substantially more havoc for markets by declining to pay the insurance subsidies, as he has periodically threatened to do.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Trump administration has, so far, been a reluctant overseer of the Obamacare markets.
It has slashed its budget for outreach and enrollment assistance for possible customers, meaning that consumers may have more trouble finding out when and how to sign up for health insurance.
Its Department of Health and Human Services keeps sending news releases cheerfully noting the laws shortcomings.
(A recent one had the subject line Its not working...)

Officials also recently announced that they expect to take the HealthCare.gov enrollment website offline for maintenance for up to 12 hours on five of the six Sundays during the enrollment period, substantially longer than was needed last year.
The administration argues that people eligible for Obamacare programs are already well-informed about their options, but there is substantial survey research suggesting that many may be confused or simply unaware of how the program works.
That may be especially true now, given the months of news about efforts to repeal the law.
Taken together, higher prices and less outreach are likely to mean fewer people buying coverage on the individual insurance market.
Insurers views on whether to participate in 2019 are likely to be shaped by their experience next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Trump administration has tended to use the poor performance of the health care markets as a prod to legislators to move forward on repeal.
But the timing of repeals collapse means that, even absent a legislative overhaul, the markets will suffer.
A new poll of 2,200 adults by Morning Consult found that only 54 percent of Americans know that people born in Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, are U.S. citizens.
(Because Puerto Rico is not a state, they do not vote in presidential elections, but they send one nonvoting representative to Congress.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This finding varied significantly by age and education.
Only 37 percent of people ages 18 to 29 know people born in Puerto Rico are citizens, compared with 64 percent of those 65 or older.
Similarly, 47 percent of Americans without a college degree know Puerto Ricans are Americans, compared with 72 percent of those with a bachelors degree and 66 percent of those with a postgraduate education.
Inaccurate beliefs on this question matter, because Americans often support cuts to foreign aid when asked to evaluate spending priorities.
In our poll, support for additional aid was strongly associated with knowledge of the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans.
More than 8 in 10 Americans who know Puerto Ricans are citizens support aid, compared with only 4 in 10 of those who do not.
Percent of Americans Who Support Aid for Puerto Rico About half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, and they are more likely to support aid.
Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44 Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44

Being informed about the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans also modestly increases support for aid.
Over all, 64 percent of Americans in the poll who were given no additional information said that Puerto Rico should receive additional government aid to help rebuild the territory, while 14 percent said it was not necessary and 20 percent said they did not know or had no opinion.
But when a random sample of participants was informed that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens before answering this question, support for aid increased four percentage points, to 68 percent.
These effects were especially large for Republicans (+9 percentage points), Trump voters (+10 percentage points) and Hispanic respondents (+12 percentage points).
For example, 67 percent of Trump voters who saw a prompt informing them that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens supported additional aid, compared with 57 percent who did not see the prompt.
These findings are consistent with research showing that people tend to allocate contributions in laboratory games toward fellow members of their group.
They also underline the pivotal role the news media can play in shaping public sympathies.
Previous research has found that competing stories can crowd foreign disasters out of the news, reducing aid provided by the United States.
In this case, the lack of media attention could lead people to ignore Puerto Ricos plight.
Our sympathies for other people depends in part on whether we see them as fellow members of our tribe.
Without more coverage, it may be easy to forget that the people suffering are our fellow Americans.
Morning Consult data was collected from Sept. 22-24, 2017, among a national sample of 2,200 adults.
The interviews were conducted online, and the data was weighted to approximate a target sample of adults based on age, race/ethnicity, gender, educational attainment and region.
A big reason for the decline: Unemployed men are less likely to be seen as marriage material.
Women dont want to take a risk on somebody whos not going to be able to provide anything, said Sharon Sassler, a sociologist at Cornell who published Cohabitation Nation: Gender, Class, and the Remaking of Relationships with Amanda Jayne Miller last month.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with an adjusted family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not bachelors degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile or without high school diplomas, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile or with college degrees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving in together quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
But for the insurer, unless it is getting a discount or a rebate from the manufacturer, the cost is about $130 minus the co-payment.
The company is by no means alone in this tactic.
Many other drug manufacturers also offer coupon cards online for their brand-name products that compete with generics.
Such coupons are not new.
But from 2007 to 2010, brand-name drugs with coupons grew as a share of retail drug spending, to 54 percent from 26 percent.
The figure may well be even higher today, according to Leemore Dafny, an economist at Harvard Business School.
Though such coupons assist patients, they do nothing for insurers, for whom generics are still a better deal.
And thats the problem.
By encouraging patients to switch from generic to brand drugs, coupons effectively impose higher costs on insurers.
That ends up increasing premiums, and not for any particularly good reason.
Generic drugs are generally regarded as equivalent to their corresponding brand products and are 80 percent cheaper, on average.
This is precisely why plans impose much higher cost-sharing for brand-name drugs than their generic equivalent.
Doing so can help keep premiums down without harming patients.
Perhaps in response, Americans are using more generics.
In 2006, 90 percent of prescriptions that were filled were for a generic equivalent to a brand-name drug, when such a generic was available.
In 2012, that number had increased to 95 percent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The circumvention of insurance plan designs by these coupons has long been suspected to contribute to drug spending and premium growth.
A recent study examining data from 2007 through 2010 and published in The American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, puts some numbers to the phenomenon.
Co-pay coupons increase use of brand drugs for which generics are available by 60 percent and spending by as much as 4.6 percent.
Coupons raise spending in two ways, said Ms. Dafny, an author of the study.
In addition to making more expensive brand drugs more attractive to consumers, it allows manufacturers to raise brand prices.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For example, the $4 cost with the coupon holds the consumers prices fixed at a low level.
That allows the manufacturer to raise the overall price without losing sales.
This raises spending, too, but for the insurer.
In total, the coupons for drugs with generic competition are responsible for several billion dollars of additional drug spending per year, according to the study, which was also written by Christopher Ody with Northwesterns Kellogg School of Management and Matthew Schmitt with the U.C.L.A.
Anderson School of Management.
The coupons do so, by and large, without expanding the number of people using medications, just by switching which product they purchase  brand or generic.
Drug manufacturers also offer coupons for drugs without generic competition, but they were not the focus of the study.
If drug coupons are problematic for insurers and drive up premiums, why dont insurers reject them?
They say they cant ban them because they cant tell when a coupon is being redeemed at the pharmacy counter, Ms. Dafny said.
But public payers ban them, after all, and their enrollees pick up prescriptions at the same pharmacies.
Medicare, for example, bans their use.
But enforcement is incomplete, and by one estimate 6 percent of Medicare enrollees use coupons anyway.
And Massachusetts has passed laws that ban co-pay coupons for brand drugs with generic equivalents.
The likelier explanation, Ms. Dafny says, is that denying consumers access to coupons would cause a backlash.
In the short term, out-of pocket-prices would rise for the few: the consumers relying upon them.
But in the long term, encouraging consumers to use generic drugs when available  which is what insurers are trying to do  would reduce drug spending and premiums for everyone.
Buried in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that could help promote all of these goals.
That provision allows states to waive nearly all of the rules about how they run their insurance marketplaces under Obamacare, if they can prove that their replacement plan would offer similarly comprehensive insurance to just as many people, at the same or lower cost.
An older, related program allows states to make modifications to their Medicaid program that dont cost the federal government more money, if the states adhere to various guidelines.
The Obamacare program, known as the state innovation waiver, was set up to kick in this year.
And, so far, it appears that only a handful of states wish to refashion the Obamacare status quo.
Two states have put waivers into effect.
Hawaii used one to do away with Obamacares small-business insurance marketplace.
Alaska established a special fund to pay medical bills of patients who needed very expensive care, lowering the premiums on the market.
Several other states have applied for waivers of various sorts, and these are undergoing federal review.
Why havent more states come forward?
One reason is that coming up with a brand-new health care system is hard, and not every state may be interested in doing it.
Another is that states have complained that the Obamacare application rules are too strict and onerous.
The rules require states to pass legislation endorsing a state plan, to undergo a six-month review, and to adhere to tests to make sure that the new plan will protect the people who are helped by Obamacare.
States have also said that it can be hard to make related reforms to both the marketplace and Medicaid programs, since they must undergo separate reviews for their budgetary effects.
Photo

But in recent hearings, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has been discussing options to address state requests, and ease the process.
The committees chairman, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, has been pushing for changes that would make it easier for states to try new policy approaches.
And Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking member, was willing to make some concessions in exchange for a promise to fund insurance subsidies caught up in a court fight.
The Alexander-Murray negotiations were shelved as the Graham-Cassidy bill picked up steam, but they could begin again.
In his statement, Mr. McCain mentioned the Alexander-Murray negotiations as an avenue for bipartisan reform and said, I hope they will resume.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The idea of the innovation waiver originally came from the Democrats.
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote the provision because he wanted states to have more options.
An expanded innovation program might lead to more experiments from the left  something approaching a single-payer system from a state like Vermont, say  as well as those from the right.
But making it easier for states to receive waivers could be a way for Republican senators to give states more flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There were, of course, many other features of the Republican bill that could not be easily replicated by waiver.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have redistributed a big pool of federal funding among states.
And it would have changed the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, putting spending on poor children, disabled Americans and many people living in nursing homes on a strict diet.
Any bipartisan deal would require the votes of at least eight Democrats, which makes drastic changes to the current rules unrealistic.
But there remain opportunities for state experimentation.
The Trump administration has signaled that it is eager to help promote state flexibility.
Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, wrote to governors in March, urging them to apply.
Not every state has felt its proposals were welcomed with enthusiasm so far.
If a top Republican concern is about the rigid structure of Obamacare, and states really want to build their own systems, there are still avenues to move in the direction Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have sketched.
But while they might achieve many of the same policy goals, those efforts are likely to be cast as Obamacare revisions, not replacements.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
Republican voters were roughly 40 points more likely than Republican elites to believe that controlling illegal immigration should be a top priority of American foreign policy (61 percent to 20 percent).
They were less likely to support the resettlement of Syrian refuges to the United States (27 percent to 71 percent).
And they were more likely to believe that immigrants and refuges entering the United States are a critical threat to the nation (55 percent to 16 percent).
Similar differences exist on issues of trade, globalization and Social Security.
These patterns help explain how Mr. Trump emerged as a viable candidate and eventual winner of the G.O.P.
nomination in 2016.
He went where Republican voters were, signaling this with his exhortations about building a wall and banning the entry of all Muslims, for example.
His candidacy was helped by the fact that other contenders wouldnt echo him to compete for those votes explicitly.
Photo

The survey patterns also suggest an upside for President Trump regarding his meetings and agreements with Democratic leaders.
He will be more in line with Republican elites on those topics  the type who routinely win support from a plurality of Republican voters.
Perhaps more important, protecting the children known as Dreamers (the beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program) is not seen by the public as the same as other immigration issues.
Most people  including many Republican voters  believe that once people have lived in the country for years, held a job, learned English, and are willing to pay back taxes, they should be able to stay.
Whether President Trumps recent moves are politically nave or shrewd turns on how worried he is about losing support among the Republican voters whom he courted specifically over illegal immigration, and whether these voters think that an agreement on DACA portends a broader softening on border control.
His base has stuck by him through many unimaginable episodes: Mr. Trump himself described their loyalty by saying that he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldnt lose voters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He might be right.
Gabriel Lenz, a University of California, Berkeley, political scientist, has written a book about what happens among voters when leaders change positions on issues.
The book is titled Follow the Leader?
which gives you a hint of how things turn out.
On most issues, when candidates change their minds, supporters will mimic the change instead of abandoning the candidates.
As the book description says, In many cases, citizens first pick a politician and then adopt that politicians policy views.
But President Trump might also be wrong about this.
Using similar methods to Mr. Lenzs, Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine, has conducted research on long-held predispositions, like views about people who are different from you.
Mr. Tesler found that voters are less likely to change those kinds of positions to follow their party leaders.
Candidates who change their minds on straightforward policy issues like the tax rate are likely to see their voters change their minds on those issues.
The same is not true for topics drawing on racial or ethnic attitudes.
Mr. Trump regularly changes his mind on all sorts of things, so if his voters dont come along, he could always return to his earlier position to court them.
He has done it before on immigration.
After the 2012 presidential election, Mr. Trump criticized the Republican Party for its loss and warned that the party would continue to lose presidential elections if it comes across as meanspirited and unwelcoming toward people of color.
He went on to compliment the Democrats on immigration  not on their policies, but on their tone.
They didnt have a policy, he said, but what they did have going for them is that they were not meanspirited about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What they were is they were kind, he added.
Mr. Trumps tone three years later was much less kind than the party line in 2012.
He even criticized a Republican primary opponent, Jeb Bush, for saying that illegal border crossings were motivated by an act of love and commitment to family.
Now, hes testing the deep affection of his base once again by seemingly going back to a kinder approach on immigration.
The language of the bill provides them with a nearly unlimited range of policy options to use the money in the service of providing health care access, and no templates or fallback options.
Republican governors from 15 states have endorsed the bill, saying that adequately funded, flexible block grants to the states are the last, best hope to finally repeal and replace Obamacare.
States could use the money in any number of ways: state insurance programs, subsidies for private insurance, direct payments to health providers, high-risk pools or more.
They would be free to preserve the central consumer protections created by Obamacare, or to decide to allow insurers to limit benefits or charge higher prices to sicker customers than healthier ones.
The challenges would fall into two major categories.
First, states would need to make political choices about what they want their system to look like.
Next, they would need to submit applications, hire contractors and build new systems to run them.
Neither would be easy.
The bill would make health care an active, high-stakes political debate in all 50 states.
Under Obamacare, states had limited, rather binary policy choices, and even those were hard for state governments to make quickly.
States had to decide whether to run their own insurance marketplaces or to let the federal government do it for them.
After a Supreme Court ruling in 2012, they had a choice about whether to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more childless adults, or to stick with their prior programs.
Many states took longer than two years to answer even those comparatively simple questions.
Photo

Consider, for example, a state like Virginia, where a Democrat sits in the governors office but Republicans run the legislature.
Political consensus might prove elusive.
Fights could erupt even among more politically homogeneous states that support Obamacare.
One house of the California legislature recently voted to adopt a single-payer health care system.
The flexibility presented by the bill might open a heated debate about whether to adopt such an approach  or build something more like the Affordable Care Act, which is currently working well there.
There are also the challenges of state legislative calendars: Texas legislature, for example, is not scheduled to convene until 2019.
In some ways, a clean slate is much more complicated than very discrete decisions, said Larry Levitt, an executive vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health research group.
Mr. Levitt described the challenges facing states under this legislation as formidable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In contrast with an earlier bill from Mr. Cassidy, which offered a default option for uncertain states, there is no backup plan in the bill.
The Obamacare coverage programs would disappear everywhere in 2020, and any state unable to make a plan and submit an application would be ineligible for the new grant funding.
If a state succeeds in obtaining the funding but doesnt have a functioning new system on Jan. 1, 2020, consumers and markets would be thrown into chaos.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the bills block grant formula, Mississippi would be one of the biggest winners, eligible for substantially more health care money than it gets now.
Still, Mike Chaney, the states insurance commissioner, said that he was wary about the change.
Which evil do you like better, the one you know or the one you dont know?
Mr. Chaney said.
There are better ways to do this.
Once states choose a policy approach, they would need to bring it to life.
If they adopt a government-run approach, in which people can enroll in a single public health plan, they will need to develop the parameters for that program and put it out to bid.
If they select something similar to Obamacare  some sort of insurance market with income-based subsidies  they will need technology systems that allow them to verify peoples eligibility and income, and link state assistance with their insurance purchases.
Most states have lengthy contracting processes, in which they must request proposals and review multiple bids before signing up vendors.
Those deals would need to be in place before any software building begins.
The Obama administration had nearly four years to develop and build its enrollment system, HealthCare.gov, which barely functioned at the outset.
Peter Lee, the executive director of the California marketplace, Covered California, which is considered one of the countrys most successful, said that his system was barely finished in time, and he had the ability to call up local technology C.E.O.s for advice.
Andy Slavitt, who joined the Obama administration in 2014 to help rebuild the ailing HealthCare.gov, and is strongly opposed to the Republican bill, said it would be close to impossible for most states to build meaningful systems for providing health insurance on such a timeline.
This is a fantasy document developed without the benefit of talking to people who have actually had to operationalize these things before, he said.
Passage of the bill would set off a state rush for help from the limited group of contractors who have built big systems.
Mike Leavitt, a Republican who was Secretary of Health and Human Services under George W. Bush, and a governor of Utah, now runs a consulting firm that helps states build and manage exchanges.
He said he supported the general idea of giving states more power.
He was optimistic that some states could adopt out-of-the-box systems within two years, but probably not all.
There are different levels of complexity involved in states, and theres different levels of capacity, and theres different levels of experience, he said.
Many experts I spoke with were confident that most states would find some way to get the federal money, given how big the stakes were.
They were less sure about whether states would be able to use it in a way that would provide health coverage quickly to the people currently served by Obamacare.
The metaphor I think about is its saying, Were going to continue having a freeway full of fast-moving cars, but were going to remove the lane line and the speed limits and say we hope things work out,  Mr. Lee said.
The bill is structured as a sort of slow-motion repeal of the health laws main coverage programs.
Though the bill establishes the new state block grant program for a decade, all of the programs money expires after 2026.
That makes it different from the Obamacare overhaul bill passed by the House and a previous bill considered by the Senate, which would have made modifications and cuts to those programs, but preserved them in perpetuity.
The expiration of the health laws programs alone would probably mean that about 23 million fewer Americans would have health coverage, if compared with current law, according to an estimate the Congressional Budget Office made in regard to a previous repeal bill.
In the meantime, analysts say, the individual insurance markets could face enormous changes.
The legislation rolls back popular consumer protections in Obamacare, leaving each state to decide what minimum benefits must be covered or if customers with pre-existing illnesses should be protected from higher prices.
Not every state would drop these provisions, but several might.
One of the few Obamacare requirements that would remain is to allow children to stay on their parents insurance policies until age 26.
The budget office has said it does not have time to analyze the full effects of the bill before the Senate hopes to consider it, though it will provide some overall estimates of its effects on the federal deficit.
While a floor vote is not certain yet, Republicans are racing against the clock.
They are considering the bill under special budget rules that allow them to pass it with a simple majority of votes in the Senate.
That opportunity expires when the fiscal year ends at the end of Sept. 30.
The legislation also does little to stabilize the individual market from now until when the states would have to administer new health programs in 2020.
Insurers are sharply raising their prices for 2018 because lawmakers have not committed to funding the so-called cost-sharing subsidies that help insurers reduce deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
The bill does not fix this problem.
The legislation also eliminates the tax penalty that people who refuse coverage face  the individual mandate  which could discourage insurance enrollment among healthier people, who are critical to making the program work.
Insurance companies, some of which are only reluctantly staying in the market, may think twice about whether they need to remain while the alternatives are being worked out.
This mix of policies during the two-year transition period is similar to that imagined in earlier Republican bills.
The budget office said that such an environment would cause insurance prices to spike by 20 percent and about 15 million fewer Americans to have health coverage in 2019.
The block-grant formula would affect who is covered, by shifting money to states with the greatest number of low-income residents and away from states that have tried to provide more of their middle-income citizens with insurance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent analysis from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that, by 2026, blue states with low numbers of uninsured residents, including New York and Massachusetts, would experience substantial reductions in federal funding.
Poorer states with high uninsured rates, like Texas and Mississippi, would see increases.
Many of the states that make out better financially could have obtained more Obamacare funding if they had chosen to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more low-income residents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bills formula shifts around the current pot of money based on how many residents in each state are close to the poverty line, and also seeks to equalize payments, regardless of differences in the price of medical care in different regions.
It redistributes from higher income to lowest income, said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere Health.
It also redistributes among the states.
Like several earlier Republican health bills, this one would also change the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, which even before Obamacares expansion to poor adults in many states covered tens of millions of vulnerable Americans, including poor children, older Americans in nursing homes, adults with disabilities, and many pregnant women.
The program currently pays for 49 percent of all births and 64 percent of all nursing home residents bills.
The Graham-Cassidy bill moves funding for the Medicaid expansion population into the state block grant.
It would also convert the rest of the program from an open-ended commitment of paying a share of those peoples medical bills to a capped allotment for each person every year, set to grow by a fixed amount.
Independent analysts have said that the change would cause substantial shifts in financial responsibility to states, ultimately leading to reductions in benefits or in the number of Americans covered by Medicaid over time.
Most Americans receive insurance through their employers, and they, too, would probably see changes under this bill.
The legislation would eliminate Obamacares penalties for employers that decline to offer their workers affordable coverage.
The changes to benefit rules in some states could, through a complicated interplay of law and regulation, allow insurers to impose annual or lifetime limits on coverage for some people covered under employer plans.
More than half of plans had such limits before they were barred by the Affordable Care Act.
With all these changes in the Cassidy-Graham bill, the states might have considerable difficulty coming up with plans of their own by 2020, when the current system of covering their residents under Medicaid and the health laws insurance market would end.
Youve only got two years to figure all of this out, said Robert Laszewski, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. You need a comprehensive plan to phase Obamacare out to something that replaces it.
But the bill faces substantial challenges, both political and procedural.
Here are three reasons the effort may not succeed  and one very important reason it might.
Photo

1) Rand Paul is a hard no, which makes the math difficult.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has been making a big point of how he dislikes this bill and wont vote for it.
He said so in a series of tweets on Monday.
Then he held a news conference, saying he was immovable.
Without his vote, Senate leadership can afford to lose only one more.
Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered mixed messages on the bill, and suggested on Monday that he was not yet endorsing the bill but might eventually.
So far, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have voted against every previous repeal attempt.
They even voted against opening debate on the process that permitted consideration of the Graham-Cassidy option.
If Mr. Paul holds firm, one of those two will need to change her mind.
Its possible that Mr. Paul will switch sides, but hes made it hard for himself to do so.
Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins have said nothing about their intentions.
But both raised objections about cuts to Medicaid in the earlier bill, and the new bill contains similar reductions.
The bills funding formula also appears to be unkind to both Alaska and Maine.
2) Theres a huge redistribution of money between states in the bills formula.
Losers include states with must-get senators.
The legislation sets up a complex formula for who gets what chunk of federal health care spending.
The formula is devised to equalize spending among states.
Currently, some states spend much more on Medicaid and the exchanges than others, either because they cover more people or because their systems are more generous or expensive.
That redistribution of money means that some states would come out as big winners, but others would absorb big reductions.
Mr. Cassidy has pointed out that more than a third of Affordable Care Act spending goes to four states: California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland.
Thats roughly true.
These are populous states that expanded their Medicaid programs and tend to have costly health care systems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its not just big, blue states that would lose out.
According to estimates from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank, Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, for example, would end up with less money by the end of a decade.
Those states all contain Republican senators who have expressed some unease with earlier versions of Obamacare repeal, and they might wish to keep the bill off the floor to avoid a tough vote that would pit their broad political commitments to repeal against the more parochial concerns of their constituents.
(Similar concerns might also crop up in the House, where a final vote would eventually need to be held.)
Over the long term, every state would lose money under the proposal.
The big block grants would expire altogether in 2027.
3) The timing is tight, and the bill still has a long way to go, leaving little room for error.
Republicans are trying to pass the bill using a special budget procedure called reconciliation.
That process allows them to pass the bill without needing any Democratic support, but it comes with a number of rules.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the reconciliation process, the bill requires an estimate of costs from the Congressional Budget Office.
The office indicated that it would offer an initial assessment by early next week, but could not provide detailed estimates about what would happen to insurance coverage or premiums for several weeks.
The score could discourage some senators from supporting the bill; an incomplete assessment might discourage others.
The bill will also need to be reviewed by the Senates parliamentarian to ensure that its provisions adhere to rules for the budget process.
Some provisions, including restrictions on funding for abortion providers and the new option of work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries, could run afoul of the rules and be scrubbed out in the Byrd Bath.
Any funding formula changes made to the bill to please reluctant senators could slow things down.
The parliamentarian has said that the Senate process needs to be wrapped up by the end of the month.
That means that the bill needs a score, a Byrd Bath rules review and a vote in the Senate by the end of Saturday, Sept. 30.
Then the legislation would need to go back to the House, where, after midnight of that day, it could not be changed again, only voted up or down.
1) But Obamacare repeal is a core promise for Republicans.
Republicans have been running on a promise to repeal Obamacare since 2010, and this bill appears to be their last chance to achieve that goal in the foreseeable future.
Though they could initiate a new budget process to try again with health care, the president and congressional leadership want to use the process instead to pass tax reform.
Many members of Congress (and their staffs) are weary of the recent health care fight, which has been bruising and has yielded little political upside.
But even for lawmakers with doubts about this particular piece of legislation, the prospect of a win on an issue dear to their base  not to mention getting President Trump to stop jeering that they are wasting time and couldnt get it done  could be a powerful motivating force.
To better understand one of the most heated American policy debates, we conducted a small tournament to explore the idea of what makes a great health care system, and which nation might do it best.
A panel of judges chose between Germany, Switzerland, France, Britain, Canada, Australia, the United States and Singapore.
We hope that readers will consider this to be merely the beginning of a discussion, not the end.
In fact, we look forward to writing articles in which we answer reader questions and ask other experts with different views to weigh in.
Wed like to hear from you.
Have you experienced a health care system outside the United States?
Tell us its best or worst feature.
And what advice would you give Americans?
Photo

The Bernie Sanders Medicare for All plan promises rapid, sweeping change to the American health care system, with the elimination of all private insurance and the creation of a costly new government insurance program that will cover everyone and nearly every medical service.
But deep in its back pages is a more modest fallback plan.
The bill, introduced this week, has attracted the endorsement of 15 Democratic senators, including several of the partys most ambitious liberals.
But many more Democrats this week said theyd like to pursue more limited steps to expand health insurance coverage and the governments role in the system.
It turns out that the Sanders bill also has provisions along those lines.
Taken together, the bill encapsulates much of the coming Democratic debate about the direction of health care.
In the statements of the bills co-sponsors, one can detect an openness to less transformational approaches to health reform.
This bill is aspirational, and Im hopeful that it can serve as a starting point for where we need to go as a country, Senator Al Franken of Minnesota wrote in a Facebook post.
He described the bill as a marker and one way to achieve universal coverage.
Parts of the Sanders bill help establish a road map for what some other strategies might look like.
The provisions are tucked into Title X of the bill and describe the four-year transition between current policy and the Sanders bills goal of a Medicare-for-all system.
During that interim, some younger Americans would be able to buy access to the traditional Medicare program, which is now mainly for those 65 and up.
The provisions would also establish an option for Americans to buy access to a Medicare-like government plan that would be sold on the Obamacare exchanges.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Medicare buy-in section comes from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who has introduced the provision as a stand-alone bill.
Notably, that 13-percentage-point advantage is biased by the fact that people more inclined to like Mr. Trump  older, white, heterosexual Christian men  happen to be overrepresented in manufacturing jobs.
The Trump manufacturing advantage shrinks to just three percentage points after taking into account demographic factors (race, age, gender, sexuality, religion and educational attainment) and becomes entirely insignificant after including attitudes about racism.
Trump voters are far more likely to disagree with statements like I am angry that racism exists and White people in the U.S. have certain advantages because of the color of their skin.
Manufacturing sector exposure is among the least important factors in predicting Trump support.
Trumps Small Edge With Manufacturing Workers After taking into account demographic variables, geographic variables and attitudes about race, much of the difference between manufacturing workers and those in other sectors disappears.
No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2 No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2

In fact, Gallup survey data from August shows that American adults who approve of the way Mr. Trump is handling the presidency are actually less worried than other Americans about how trade competition will affect their job.
Just 6 percent of employed adults who approve of Mr. Trump say they are worried about their job going overseas, compared with 11 percent who disapprove.
Nor is technology a big concern.
Only 9 percent of Trump supporters are worried that their job will become obsolete as a result of technology compared with 15 percent of those who dont approve of the president.
Likewise, exposure to trade competition played no apparent role in persuading Obama voters to switch to Mr. Trump.
People who voted for President Obama in 2012 accounted for about 12 percent of all Trump voters, but again, these voters were not disproportionately involved in the manufacturing sector, either nationally or in swing states.
Around 8.7 percent of Trump voters who also voted for Mr. Obama in 2012 work in manufacturing, compared with 9.5 percent of Trump voters who voted for Mitt Romney.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exposure to trade is even less important for far-right voters in Europe than it is for Trump voters.
Using data from the European Social Survey, I find that working in manufacturing raises the probability of voting for a far-right party in the most recent election by less than one percentage point, using no demographic control variables.
Adding the same controls as above  religion, race, age, education, gender  eliminates even that small effect.
As in the United States, European far-right voters were far more likely to express concerns about immigration and race, saying, for example, that they are discriminated against, or that being white should be an important factor in determining whether foreigners are allowed to migrate.
By contrast, voters reporting positive interactions with people from other races were much less likely to be far-right voters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

None of this is to say that economics is unimportant to nationalist voting.
Both Trump voters and European far-right voters are distinguished by their strong dissatisfaction with the present state of the national economy, even controlling for demographic factors and attitudes on race and immigration.
Likewise, both groups are more likely to report that their family income situation is either difficult (for European far-right voters) or has gotten worse in the last four years (for Trump voters), even though family income is no lower for either group of voters.
In fact, its significantly higher for the average Trump voter.
This is consistent with previous Gallup research showing that Trump supporters seem to need a much larger financial cushion than those who view him unfavorably in order to feel good about their finances, perhaps because of their fears over the future of the country.
Trumps Advantage With People Who Said the Economy Was Getting Worse Voters who said the national economy had gotten worse or much worse over the past year were much more likely to vote for Mr. Trump, even after adjusting for demographic and other variables.
No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26 No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26

Even if nationalist voters are not direct victims of trade, many might still oppose it out of a belief  however mistaken  that cooperation with foreigners must come at the expense of their fellow citizens.
While this view has historically been advanced by anticapitalist academics, it has seen new life among white nationalists on the right.
Voters on the far right and left have many valid grievances about the failure of conventional parties to create a fair, vibrant economy.
I have written a report published by Gallup and the U.S. Council on Competitiveness that elite, domestically focused business interests have set up barriers to competition, driving up their own incomes and the prices paid by consumers and taxpayers.
The anti-trade story may be diverting attention from those and other economic problems that seem to have helped nationalist candidates gain support from people who might not otherwise gravitate toward chauvinistic views.
That doesnt mean they have the same party loyalty of older left-of-center generations.
Theyre more likely to register as independent.
The young were nearly three times as likely as voters over 30 to vote for a third-party candidate last November.
About one in 10 voted for the Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, or the Libertarian candidate, Gary Johnson, or another candidate or write-in option.
This could be a reflection of the fact that many young Americans had their first glimpse of national politics during the hotly contested ideological battle between Bernie Sanders and Mrs. Clinton in the 2016 Democratic primary election.
Young millennials  and Im one of them  have experienced Democratic Party infighting practically since their political life began.
The infighting has continued in recent months: Should Democrats allow anti-abortion candidates?
Is single-payer insurance the one true path forward for health care?
Should the party make its main priority courting working-class whites?
As important as it would be for Democrats to unite and to keep left-of-center voters from straying, it would be even more helpful to win Republican converts.
A recent report from Pew Research Center found that 23 percent of young Americans who identified as Republican or independent-leaning-Republican switched to identifying as Democrat or independent-leaning-Democrat from 2015 to 2017.
The same report estimated that just 9 percent of young Democrats or those who lean Democratic switched to the G.O.P.
My analysis of survey data from the 2010-2014 C.C.E.S.
panel survey finds that these recent levels of Republican-to-Democrat switching are around 11 percentage points higher than past levels.
The 2016 C.C.E.S.
data corroborates this story, showing that about 75 percent of young Republicans voted for Donald J. Trump  about 20 points lower than the level of Republican voters older than 30.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That all sounds promising for Democrats.
But you might have noticed something in November 2016: This trend wasnt enough to produce a victory for Mrs. Clinton.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The turnout among those 18 to 29 was just 43 percent in 2016, compared with 60 percent for the entire electorate.
And in recent midterm elections, they have voted at rates no higher than 21 percent, which is less than the 36 percent overall average.
If those turnout patterns hold true in the 2018 midterms, young millennials will cast a measly 10 percent of total ballots.
So even if the Democrats do add 25 percent of young Republicans to their ranks, it will amount only to roughly 3 percent of the electorate in 2018.
What may be more important than the level at which young Republicans are switching parties are their reasons for doing so.
The Pew Research Center report found that 84 percent of the Republicans-turned-Democrats (regardless of age) disapproved of President Trump.
Fifty-four percent strongly disapproved.
A recent poll conducted by Gallup found approval of Mr. Trump among millennials to be near 23 percent.
This would equate to a decline of 10 percentage points since Inauguration Day, slightly outpacing the nine-point decline among all Americans.
Not only is the president an unpopular figure with young Americans, but he has been also been growing more unpopular over time.
Could President Trump be turning away the young in such a way that it could cause the Republican Party long-lasting harm?
Millennials tend to have more fluid partisanship, maybe because they havent cemented political attachments yet.
But theres evidence that your early political years are your most formative: Once you settle on a party, you tend to stick with it.
Another hope for Democrats is that the young have been activated by the Trump presidency, and there is some evidence of this.
They could match the rise in turnout in the highly publicized special election in Georgias Sixth Congressional District in the spring.
Voters 18 to 29 represented 10.6 percent of the electorate in that contest, up from 6 percent in the 2014 midterms.
(The Democrat, Jon Ossoff, still lost.)
Photo

Photo

Across the Atlantic, too, there are clues that young people are more politically active, after being stunned by the Brexit vote.
Sixty-four percent of voters 18 to 24 turned out in the 2017 British elections, an increase of 16 percentage points since the most recent contest in 2015.
Whats more, that age group supported the leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, a socialist, by 20 points more than it did in 2015.
But Democrats still shouldnt count on the young to rescue them in 2018 or 2020.
The 2020 election is supposed to be the first presidential race in which millennials outnumber baby boomers.
The 2016 turnout numbers, however, offer a stark reminder: Boomers, who lean Republican, turned out to vote at a rate 23 percentage points higher than that of millennials.
And in the 2014 midterms, they outnumbered the millennial electorate by a factor of three.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Unless that changes, boomers, though they may be outnumbered by millennials, may continue to decide their future.
Mr. Sanders says that the transition to the Medicare program would achieve several goals: It would ensure universal coverage, it would improve the affordability of health care for many Americans and it would save the country money.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether it can achieve that third goal depends a great deal on how the new Medicare-for-all system would be managed, and the Sanders plan leaves a lot of those details unclear for now.
Covering everyone would not, by itself, make the health care system in the United States as inexpensive as those of other nations with universal health care systems.
That sort of cost control would require its own set of policies and difficult choices.
In his news conference introducing the bill on Wednesday, Mr. Sanders focused his ire on insurance and drug companies, two profitable sectors of the health care system.
But insurance and drug company profits dont make up the bulk of Americas health care spending.
Single-payer advocates argue that the simplicity of a single, government payer would reduce paperwork and office staff, and that is almost certainly true.
But most spending in the health care system is on medical care from doctors and hospitals  and squeezing savings there may be harder.
To get savings from those areas might require reducing doctors pay or hospitals numbers of medical professionals.
It could require eliminating some medical treatments that are currently offered.
Even cutting spending on pharmaceuticals would have ripple effects, potentially limiting access to new or expensive treatments, or reducing investment in new technologies.
The bill specifies that Medicare would be run with an annual budget, leaving government officials to decide how to make the countrys medical spending conform to such totals every year.
It also says that the government should evaluate the effectiveness of different medical treatments.
Such a system has precedent: Several countries, including Canada and Britain, establish health care budgets that must be met and assess the value of medical services to determine what should be covered.
But such budgets and limits have been politically toxic in the United States, where politicians have been reluctant to say that the government should restrict care.
The Affordable Care Act established a theoretical limit on spending per Medicare beneficiary, establishing a board that would reduce costs if a cap were met.
But that board, assailed as a death panel, has never been called upon to make such choices, for no members have ever been nominated to it.
Mr. Sanders sells the bill as a broad expansion of care, by ensuring that all Americans have similar, broad benefits and little financial exposure to medical bills.
At Wednesdays event, he stood flanked by several prominent Democratic co-sponsors and medical providers who offered testimonials about how a Medicare-for-all plan would improve access to needed health care.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The plan increases the generosity of Medicare substantially.
It adds coverage for dentistry, optometry and audiology care, not part of the traditional program.
It also eliminates premiums, deductibles and most co-payments for medical care, which are significant costs for many people.
The size of the Medicare budget is also unspecified.
In part, thats because the Sanders bill does not establish a funding mechanism for its planned overhauls.
In a separate white paper, Mr. Sanderss office spells out some possible revenue sources, including increases to payroll taxes, and to high-end income taxes and some corporate taxes.
But those funding streams, politically risky in their own right, would need to be debated and measured before the realistic scale of the Medicare-for-all budget would be clear.
This different Medicare would face the push and pull of expanded reach and fixed means: one that would tend to increase the cost to the government for care, and one devised to reduce it.
Just what sort of Medicare program results would depend on the government that runs it.
Theres an argument to be made that we should cut back on his activities or make him go to bed earlier so that he gets more sleep.
Teens arent wired for that, though.
They want to go to bed later and sleep later.
Its not the activities that prevent them from getting enough sleep  its the school start times that require them to wake up so early.
More than 90 percent of high schools and more than 80 percent of middle schools start before 8:30 a.m.
Some argue that delaying school start times would just cause teenagers to stay up later.
Research doesnt support that idea.
A systematic review published a year ago examined how school start delays affect students sleep and other outcomes.
Six studies, two of which were randomized controlled trials, showed that delaying the start of school from 25 to 60 minutes corresponded with increased sleep time of 25 to 77 minutes per week night.
In other words, when students were allowed to sleep later in the morning, they still went to bed at the same time, and got more sleep.
Photo

There are costs to pushing back the start times of schools, of course.
Our local school system, like many others, uses the same buses for elementary, middle and high school.
Not wanting to start elementary school too early, it starts high school earlier to save money on transportation.
Other costs to delaying start times come after school, when later school end times result in later after-school activities.
These can interfere with parents work schedules and run into evening hours, when it gets dark and additional lighting might be necessary.
A Brookings Institution policy brief investigated the trade-offs between costs and benefits of pushing back the start times of high school in 2011.
It estimated that increased transportation costs would most likely be about $150 per student per year.
But more sleep has been shown to lead to higher academic achievement.
They found that the added academic benefit of later start times would be equivalent to about two additional months of schooling, which they calculated would add about $17,500 to a students earnings over the course of a lifetime.
Thus, the benefits outweighed the costs.
This was a reasonably simple analysis, though, and it did not persuade many schools to change.
A recent analysis by the RAND Corporation goes much further.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Marco Hafner, Martin Stepanek and Wendy Troxel conducted analyses to determine the economic implication of a universal shift of middle and high school start times to 8:30 a.m. at the earliest.
This study was stronger than the Brookings one in a number of ways.
It examined each state individually, because moving to 8:30 would be a bigger change for some than for others.
It also looked at changes year by year to see how costs and benefits accrued over time.
It examined downstream effects, like car accidents, which can affect lifetime productivity.
And it considered multiplier effects, as changes to the lives of individual students might affect others over time.
They found that delaying school start times to 8:30 or later would contribute $83 billion to the economy within a decade.
The gains were seen through decreased car crash mortality and increased student lifetime earnings.
Since it would take at least a year for any students affected by changes in start times to enter the labor market, there would be no gains in the first year.
Costs, however, would accrue immediately.
These included about $150 per student per year in transportation costs and $110,000 per school costs in upfront infrastructure upgrades.
Even so, by the second year, the benefits outweighed the costs.
By 10 years, the benefits were almost double the costs; by 15 years, they were almost triple.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wed be remiss if we didnt acknowledge other potential costs not included in this calculation, including parental difficulty in adapting to later school start times.
But even in a model where the per-student, per-year cost was increased to $500, which would compensate most parents for delays, and where the upfront per school cost was increased to $330,000, the economic benefits to society would still outweigh the costs in the long run.
Further, its important to understand that these benefits may actually be underestimates.
The researchers were careful to model only outcomes for which they had empirical data from sleep duration, such as car crashes and academic performance.
They didnt model other real, but quantifiably unknown, benefits, like improvements in rates of depression, suicide and obesity, or the overall effects on health.
Some schools are beginning to take this seriously, but not enough.
When it comes to start times, the growing evidence shows that forcing adolescents to get up so early isnt just a bad health decision; its a bad economic one, too.
