(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump ramped up his fight with the National Football League on Tuesday, calling on the league to ban players from kneeling in protest at games while the national anthem is played.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you cant kneel during our National Anthem!
Trump wrote on Twitter.
For the fifth straight day the president denounced the symbolic gesture, which has been adopted by some black players in the last year to protest against racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
An NFL spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.
Trump praised two teams that played on Monday night and largely steered clear of the controversy.
The Arizona Cardinals linked arms and stood for the Star-Spangled Banner along with the Dallas Cowboys, who knelt before the song.
Last Friday, Trump told a political rally any protesting player was a son of a bitch who should be fired, and urged a boycott of NFL games, triggering protests by dozens of players, coaches and some owners before Sundays games.
Trumps verbal assault may appeal to his conservative base as the Republican president grapples with critical issues including North Koreas nuclear threats, a humanitarian crisis in hurricane-struck Puerto Rico, an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and the healthcare struggle in Congress.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks before signing a memorandum "Increasing Access to High-Quality Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education" in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

Paul Ryan, the most senior Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, said he also disapproved of the gesture.
People are clearly within their rights to express themselves how they see fit, he told reporters.
My own view though is that we shouldnt do it on the anthem.
Slideshow (8 Images)

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Session told an audience at Washingtons Georgetown Law School that the protesting athletes were wrong.
The players arent subject to any prosecution, but if they take a provocative act, they can expect to be condemned, he said.
Hillary Clinton, Trumps Democratic rival in the 2016 election, called Trumps comments a huge, loud dog whistle to his supporters in an interview with CBS.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick first kneeled during the anthem last year to protest police shootings of unarmed black men.
His former teammate Eric Reid wrote in a New York Times opinion article that he and Kaepernick chose to kneel as a respectful gesture, comparing it to a flag flown at half-mast to mark a tragedy.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. authorities on Tuesday unveiled fraud charges against 10 people associated with some of the countrys premier college basketball programs, including four coaches and an Adidas AG executive, following a two-year corruption probe.
Prosecutors said they uncovered two related schemes, including one in which apparel executives, financial advisers and others bribed assistant college coaches to steer elite players to them, and a second in which players were allegedly bribed to enroll at schools sponsored by Adidas.
The charges reflect what prosecutors called the criminal influence of money on National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball, and the conflicts that could arise from the drive to win and the need to provide student-athletes an education.
College sports has a history of corruption, but the involvement of coaches is particularly troubling, said Mark Conrad, a sports law and ethics professor at Fordham Universitys Gabelli School of Business.
It raises questions about the priorities of the so-called power schools.
Among those charged was Chuck Person, a former National Basketball Association star who became associate head coach at Auburn University, his alma mater.
The other coaches charged are Anthony Tony Bland, from the University of Southern California; Lamont Evans, from Oklahoma State University and formerly the University of South Carolina; and Emanuel Book Richardson, from the University of Arizona.
We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior, NCAA President Mark Emmert said in a statement.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
Person, Evans and Richardson were suspended by their respective universities, while USC said it put Bland on leave and hired former FBI Director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal probe.
CONTEMPT

Among those also charged were James Gatto, director for global sports marketing for basketball at Adidas; Rashan Michel, who runs an Atlanta apparel company; New Jersey money manager Munish Sood; and Christian Dawkins, a former ASM Sports agent who prosecutors said was fired in May.
Prosecutors said Gatto and others funneled $100,000 from Adidas, identified as Company-1, to the family of an elite high school prospect so he would play at an Adidas-sponsored school matching the description of the University of Louisville.
The player was also expected to sign with Adidas upon turning professional, prosecutors said.
Joon Kim, the acting U.S. attorney in Manhattan, told a press conference the defendants showed contempt for players and coaches who follow the rules.
Adidas said in an email it was unaware of any misconduct and would fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.
Jeff Duffey, a lawyer for Person, declined to comment.
The firm matching the description in court papers of Soods firm had no immediate comment.
Other defendants lawyers declined to comment or could not be identified.
PLAYING BY THE RULES

Person, 53, was a two-time All-American at Auburn and became its all-time scoring leader.
He later played for the Indiana Pacers and other teams in a 13-year NBA career.
Prosecutors said Person accepted $91,500 of bribes over 10 months from a financial adviser, who was secretly cooperating with prosecutors, in exchange for steering NBA-worthy Auburn players to hire the adviser and buy suits from Michel.
They said Person also claimed to pay $18,500 of that sum to two players families.
Court papers describe a secretly recorded meeting at a Manhattan hotel last December where Person told an Auburn player that he knew some of his help was a violation ... of rules, but this is how the NBA players get it done, they get early relationships, and they form partnerships, they form trust.
Auburn President Steven Leath said on Twitter the school was saddened, angry and disappointed by the news.
We are committed to playing by the rules, and thats what we expect from our coaches, he said.
Louisvilles interim president, Gregory Postel, USC Athletic Director Lynn Swann, Arizona and South Carolina said their respective schools would cooperate with authorities.
Paul Haagen, co-director of Duke Universitys Center for Sports Law and Policy, said the charges reflect pressure on coaches to recruit players, and on apparel companies to sign up future stars like Michael Jordan, the NBA Hall of Famer long associated with Nike Inc.

Everyone wants to be making money, Haagen said.
The main significance is whether this probe involves just these charges, or turns into a much bigger investigation.
It has the indicia of being much larger.
PARK CITY, Utah (Reuters) - LA2028 Chairman Casey Wasserman knows full well that he, and the rest of the world, will look very different by the time the cauldron is lit for the opening ceremony of the 2028 Summer Games.
Already with a full head of gray hair, Wasserman admitted his life, appearance, and the city will all be very different following an unprecedented 11-year run-up to the Games.
Even inventor Elon Musk, the chief executive of electric car maker Tesla and rocket company SpaceX who is developing plans to colonize Mars, was unable to offer Wasserman a picture of what the world might look like when Los Angeles hosts the Olympics for a third time.
He (Musk) said he couldnt even imagine what the world is going to be like then, Wasserman, recalling a conversation he had with Musk, said in an interview with Reuters on Tuesday.
Its hard to imagine that the guy who is imagining the future cant imagine what the world is going to be like so Im not sure how I could possibly do that.
The cornerstone of the Los Angeles bid was that the city could host a Games tomorrow.
That tomorrow, however, is now more than a decade away.
There will be five Olympics staged before 2028 and a lot can happen in 11 years, including a possibility of the United States staging another Games before Los Angeles takes the spotlight.
Still basking in the glow of being confirmed as the 2028 hosts, the United States Olympic Committee admitted at this weeks Team USA Media Summit that they are considering bidding for the 2026 or 2030 Winter Games.
But it is just not the Olympic landscape that Wasserman and his team must map.
Technology may well represent the biggest challenge facing the LA2028 organizing committee, changing everything from the way fans purchase tickets to the way they get to venues and experience events.
To think that in 2006 in Turin there was no iPhone is almost incomprehensible given where we are today.
So to try and imagine where we will be in 11 years is almost impossible, Wasserman said on Tuesday.
The yearly iterations are hard to fathom let alone a decade iteration.
From the mundane to maybe there is no more cash or credit cards to everyone having driverless cars and what does that do to the traffic flows.
What does the virtual reality experience look like in 2028.
There is really simple day-to-day stuff and then there is big idea whiz-bang stuff.
Technology will evolve, that is one thing that is certain and our job will be to make sure we put the Olympics in LA in the right place in the right time.
One thing LA2028 organizers have plenty of is time as cities are usually given a seven-year run up to hosting an Olympics.
However, following the withdrawals of all but two candidates - Paris and LA - for the 2024 Olympics, officials decided to award both staging rights of successive Games.
But time can be both a blessing and a curse.
For Wasserman, it is one of LA2028s most valuable commodities.
We have tons of it but I am certain we will never have enough, said Wasserman.
We aspire to do great things with the Olympic Games in LA and so time is frankly our most valuable and more scarce resource, which sounds ironic given we have 11 years to plan and no venues to build.
Driverless cars, virtual reality, new sports and new athletes, the 2028 Summer Games could have them all but Wasserman is emphatic one thing will not change -- Olympic traditions.
While all that is around the Games may evolve, Wasserman said the history and traditions that anchor the Olympics and make them unique will remain intact.
The Olympic traditions are what make the Olympic Games special and our job will be to make that moment emotional and special for the people in the stadium, for the city of Los Angeles, the United States and the whole world, said Wasserman.
No technology, no developments are going to change that.
Sep 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; U.S.
Team golfer Phil Mickelson hits his tee shot on the 15th hole during the practice round of The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (Reuters) - It is difficult to decide whether it is more impressive that Phil Mickelson has played every Presidents Cup or that he has only once been on a losing U.S. team.
Mickelson will play his 12th consecutive Presidents Cup when he tees up at Liberty National on Thursday against an International team from the rest of the world, excluding Europe.
He has not missed a Ryder Cup either since his debut in 1995, which means he will make his 23rd team appearance for the red, white and blue, a remarkable record not just of sustained excellence, but also of having avoided serious injury.
He had to rely on a wild card pick by captain Steve Stricker this year, something few would begrudge him.
Its one of the things Im most proud of, to continue to be a part of this, the 47-year-old Californian said on Tuesday.
While some observers think the Presidents Cup needs the International team to win occasionally to boost the status of the event, Mickelson does not quite see it that way.
Sep 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; U.S.
Team golfer Phil Mickelson chips during The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Mandatory Credit: Bill Streicher-USA TODAY Sports

I dont think so, no, he said when the question was posed.
If you look at the talent on the International team, it is strong and it is deep and if we open the door and give them an opportunity it will bite us.
Mickelson has won five major championships, and probably would have captured considerably more if his career had not coincided with that of Tiger Woods.
Slideshow (4 Images)

Hes Phil Mickelson for a reason but I think I lot of people dont realize how good he is, said Australian Jason Day, a member of the International team.
I think Tiger kind of overshadows his career a little bit.
If there was no Tiger, I wonder have many times Phil probably would have won.
Day described Mickelson as one of the best players that ever lived and expressed awe at his longevity as a player in the Presidents Cup since it started in 1994.
That is probably one of the best accomplishments you could have, because it means you were consistent from 1994 all the way up to 2017.
Thats hard to do.
PARK CITY, Utah (Reuters) - Los Angeles would support any American citys bid to host the 2026 Winter Olympics but having two Olympics in the U.S. two years apart would complicate the marketing of the Los Angeles Games, LA 2028 chairman Casey Wasserman said Tuesday.
Wasserman was speaking at a news conference in Park City, Utah, which along with nearby Salt Lake City, could be a strong contender to host the Games in 2026 or 2030 if it chose to bid.
There are myriad issues, most of them are commercial, Wasserman said, adding that those challenges would also apply to the U.S. city hosting the Winter Games and the United States Olympic Committee (USOC).
The main concern would be that another U.S. city hosting an Olympics could hurt L.A.s ability to sell corporate partnerships and infringe on its exclusive rights to use the famous Olympic rings in its marketing.
Wasserman said L.A. would support any U.S. citys bid but said it would require a great deal of communication between the two cities and the USOC to iron out the details.
Its not up for us to decide whether those cities in the United States want to participate but certainly before they formally bid it will require a lot of conversation and a deep understanding of how that would affect us, how that would create challenges and how that might create opportunities, he said.
He added that Los Angeles would support any U.S. effort to bring the Winter Games back to the country for the first time since Salt Lake City hosted them in 2002.
Our approach has been that the Olympic Games, whether they be Summer or Winter, are good for American athletes, Wasserman said.
Our intent is always to be a good partner to both the United States Olympic Committee and those American athletes.
The USOC is expected to discuss possible bids for the 2026 Games at its board meeting in October.
September 26, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; International Team captain Nick Price addresses the media in a press conference during the practice round of The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

(Reuters) - International team captain Nick Price is hopeful his hodgepodge team of players from around the world can gel this week and inflict a rare defeat on the United States in the Presidents Cup.
A one-sided history has kept the biennial event from gaining the status the PGA Tour hoped for when it created the Ryder Cup-copycat competition in 1994.
It has been largely a history of futility for the International team, with just one victory and one tie in 11 editions of the event, including six defeats in six attempts on U.S. soil.
Its difficult for us, a team of eight nations this year, to get the camaraderie and get the team spirit, Price said on Tuesday at Liberty National.
This will be Prices third time at the helm, and he said the eight players returning from the close defeat in South Korea two years ago had developed a strong bond which should stand them in good stead.
What happened in South Korea really was a shot in the arm for guy like Adam Scott, Louis (Oosthuizen) and Jason (Day), who have never been on a winning team, Price said.
The team room on that Sunday night, it was a very humbling experience for me because the guys emotionally spilled their guts out to everyone how important it was to them and how much they enjoyed it.
Even though we are a hodgepodge of a team from all around the world, we are all competitors and we like to compete and dont like to get beaten.
Thats the bottom line.
This team is made up of a lot of golf young guys who probably have another four or five Presidents Cups in them.
I think they have realized how important this event is now, and they want to take it to the next level.
The 12-man International team comprises players from the rest of the world, excluding Europe.
This years team features three Australians (Day, Scott, Marc Leishman), three South Africans (Oosthuizen, Charl Schwartzel, Branden Grace) and one player each from Japan (Hideki Matsuyama), South Korea (Kim Si-woo), India (Anirban Lahiri), Canada (Adam Hadwin), Venezuela (Jhonattan Vegas) and Argentina (Emiliano Grillo).
All except Kim, Hadwin, Vegas and Grillo were on the team that lost by one point to the Americans two years ago.
And even though the Internationals are technically playing an away game, Price is hoping the melting pot that is New York City will come out to support the visitors.
Of all the cities you want to play in for the Internationals, this is the best one because its the most cosmopolitan city in America and made of so many ethnicities, he said.
We are hoping to get a lot of support out there.
New York fans are as vocal as can be, so theres going to be a lot of noise out there, which is great.
That all adds to the atmosphere.
Our guys are ready for it.
A woman walks into the head office of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) in Montreal, Quebec, Canada November 9, 2015.
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi/File Photo

PARIS (Reuters) - The French anti-doping laboratory of Chatenay-Malabry, where disgraced American cyclist Lance Armstrongs samples had been tested, has been provisionally suspended by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) on Tuesday.
This provisional suspension was imposed due to analytical issues self-reported to WADA by the laboratory, the agency said in a statement, without elaborating on the reasons why.
The provisional suspension, which took effect on 24 September 2017, prohibits the Paris Laboratory from carrying out any anti-doping activities, including all analyses of urine and blood samples.
The provisional suspension will remain in place pending disciplinary proceedings being carried out by an independent Disciplinary Committee.
The Chatenay-Malabry laboratory is where the urine test for the banned blood-booster EPO (erythropoietin) was developed in 1999.
In 2005, French sports newspaper LEquipe, saying it had access to laboratory documents, reported that six of Armstrongs urine samples collected on the 1999 Tour de France showed indisputable traces of EPO.
Armstrong repeatedly denied the allegations before admitting to doping in a television interview in 2013.
(The story corrects paragraph 2 after WADA made clear issues were self-reported by laboratory)
Sep 25, 2017; Jersey City, NJ, USA; U.S.
Team captain Steve Stricker during The Presidents Cup golf tournament at Liberty National Golf Course.
Bill Streicher-USA TODAY Sports

JERSEY CITY, New Jersey (Reuters) - The United States team at this weeks Presidents Cup will not protest during the national anthem, captain Steve Stricker said on Tuesday.
Speaking two days before the start of the biennial event against an International team, Stricker said his players would follow the usual protocol if they are present when the anthem is sung before the first match on Thursday.
Weve had a discussion already and none of my players want to do that (protest), he told a news conference at Liberty National Golf Club, within sight of the Statue of Liberty.
I just wanted to know what they wanted to do and how we wanted to proceed as a team.
So we were going to do what we wanted to do and thats take off our hat and put our hands across our chest and over our heart and respect the flag.
In a gesture initiated last season by then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, several NFL players have routinely taken one knee during the playing of the anthem.
It is intended to call attention to what the protesting players see as a pattern of racism in the treatment of African-Americans by U.S. police.
The issue has been magnified since U.S. President Donald Trump last Friday said any NFL player who protested during the anthem was a son of a bitch who should be fired.
Trump on Tuesday called for the NFL to ban any player who knelt during the anthem.
The generally conservative world of professional golf has steered clear of the controversy.
At the Presidents Cup, the players might not even be present during the brief ceremony before the first match on Thursday, when singer-songwriter Darius Rucker will sing the U.S. national anthem.
We talked about it on the bus today, said Stricker, who added that he deferred to his 12 players.
It was up to them ... We all realize there are some things going on in the world that arent right.
We want to show our support for the flag and it (acknowledging the anthem) gives us the opportunity to come together as a team.
U.S. assistant captain Davis Love said on Tuesday that he did not approve of anthem protests, while American team veteran Phil Mickelson trod a diplomatic line.
We have social injustices in this country and we should all strive to eliminate them, Mickelson said as he prepared for his 12th consecutive Presidents Cup appearance.
Weve made great strides over the years but weve got a ways to go, and we should all strive to eliminate those.
But this week, Im so proud to represent the United States, to play for my country, to play for my team mates and participate in this great event.
I dont know what else to add.
FILE PHOTO: Sep 10, 2017; Washington, DC, USA; Washington Nationals right fielder Bryce Harper (34) throws t-shirts to the fans after clinching the National League East title after their game against the Philadelphia Phillies at Nationals Park.
Mandatory Credit: Amber Searls-USA TODAY Sports

(The Sports Xchange) - The Washington Nationals reinstated outfielder Bryce Harper from the 10-day disabled list prior to Tuesdays game against the Philadelphia Phillies at Citizens Bank Park.
Harper returns to the roster after missing 41 games with a hyperextended left knee.
The 2015 National League Most Valuable Player sustained the injury after his spike slipped on a wet first base bag while trying to beat out a ground ball in a contest against the San Francisco Giants on Aug. 12.
- -

Boston Red Sox All-Star outfielder Mookie Betts is day-to-day with an injured left wrist and was not in the starting lineup for Tuesdays game against the Toronto Blue Jays.
Betts aggravated the injury during Mondays loss to the Blue Jays and departed in the eighth inning.
He underwent a CT scan and no structural damage was discovered.
Betts said he experiences a sharp pain when he swings the bat.
He is hitting .265 with 23 homers and 101 RBIs.
- -

Center fielder Aaron Hicks was activated from the disabled list by the New York Yankees.
Hicks, 27, returns from his second stint on the 10-day DL this season with a strained oblique.
FILE PHOTO: Mar 13, 2017; Charlotte, NC, USA; Chicago Bulls guard Dwyane Wade (3) reacts to a foul call in the second half against the Charlotte Hornets at Spectrum Center.
The Bulls won 115-109.
Mandatory Credit: Jeremy Brevard-USA TODAY Sports

(The Sports Xchange) - Only a few minor details remain before the expected reunion of free agent Dwyane Wade and LeBron James becomes official.
ESPN reported Tuesday that Wade was likely to sign a contract with the Cleveland Cavaliers in the next day or two, pairing the friends and NBA champions as teammates once more.
James and Wade were teammates with the Miami Heat and also with Team USA.
- -

Sacramento Kings power forward Zach Randolph told reporters that he was wrongfully arrested last month at a Los Angeles housing project on suspicion of possessing marijuana with intent to sell.
Randolph was charged with misdemeanor drug possession and resisting arrest, instead of the felony charge, and ultimately was sentenced earlier this month to 150 hours of community service.
- -

The Sacramento Kings signed guard Marcus Williams to a contract, the team announced.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed for Williams, who has competed in Puerto Rico, Russia, China, Spain and Serbia since playing for the Memphis Grizzlies in the 2009-10 season.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

A photo of basketball Hall of Famer and Boston Celtics legend Bill Russell kneeling while wearing his Presidential Medal of Freedom surfaced on social media Monday in an apparent gesture of solidarity to the sports world's reaction to President Donald Trump's comments on protesting NFL players.
"Proud to take a knee, and to stand tall against social injustice.
#takeaknee #medaloffreedom #NFL #BillRussell #MSNBC," read the caption under a photo posted on an unverified Twitter account listed under Russell's name.
The account was created earlier this month and only had one previous tweet before the photo was posted.
It was not clear if the account belongs to Russell.
The 83-year-old was awarded the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, in 2011 by President Barack Obama.
The civil rights activist has long fought for human rights and became the first black man to coach an NBA team.
See It: NFL Players Protest After Trump's Criticism



Russell played for the Celtics from 1956-1969.
The 11-time NBA champion later coached the Seattle SuperSonics and Sacramento Kings.
Trump's urging of NFL team owners to fire or suspend players who don't stand for the national anthem led to more than 200 players protesting, many kneeling, during the "Star Spangled Banner" at football games over the weekend.
Owners, coaches, former players, celebrities and other athletes also joined gestures of solidarity and condemned the president's comments.
Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'
Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'

Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James spoke Monday about the NFL protest saying President Trump is trying to divide the nation.
In this photo shared on Twitter on Sept. 24, 2017, World War II Veteran John Middlemas, 97, takes a knee in support of protesting NFL players.
A photo of a 97-year-old WWII veteran kneeling to show solidarity with protesting NFL players is being shared widely on social media after the vet's grandson posted it to Twitter Sunday.
Brennan Gilmore posted the photo of his grandfather, John Middlemas, around 7:30 a.m. Sunday, before National Football League players knelt during the national anthem, NBC News reported.
My grandpa is a 97-year-old WWII vet & Missouri farmer who wanted to join (with) those who #TakeaKnee: those kids have every right to protest, Gilmore wrote as a caption on the tweet.
As of Monday, the photo had been shared more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 377,000 users.
After President Donald Trump demanded that the NFL fire athletes who do not stand during the national anthem, more than 200 players knelt, sat or otherwise expressed protest during Sunday games across the country in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick and in opposition to the president's stance.
Here are past examples when U.S. athletes protested during competition.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Add Michael Jordan to the list of sports figures addressing President Donald Trump's comments about national anthem protests and activist athletes.
The Chicago Bulls legend and current Charlotte Hornets owner told the Charlotte Observer in a statement "one of the fundamental rights this country is founded on was freedom of speech, and we have a long tradition of nonviolent, peaceful protest."
"Those who exercise the right to peacefully express themselves should not be demonized or ostracized," the statement read.
I support Commissioner Adam Silver, the NBA, its players and all those who wish to exercise their right to free speech.
For three days, Trump has drawn criticism from the worlds of politics and sports for saying that football players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired.
The conflict peaked Sunday with Trump's remarks, which had the effect of uniting a newly minted opposition coalition that included a growing number of players and coaches, as well as some owners who have backed the president.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, you'd say, 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired,'" Trump said at a rally in Alabama.
His comments sparked a firestorm of criticism from several angles, with professional athletes across multiple leagues, NFL owners and even league Commissioner Roger Goodell joining in a chorus to call Trump's remarks "divisive" and "disrespectful."
See It: NFL Players Protest After Trump's Criticism

The Pittsburgh Steelers remained in the locker room while members of the Chicago Bears stood locked arm-in-arm during the national anthem ahead of Sunday's game at Soldier Field.
"We're not going to play politics," Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin told CBS ahead of the game.
"We're football players, we're football coaches.
We're not participating in the anthem today - not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from the circumstance."
One member of the Steelers did choose to stand for the anthem Sunday despite his team's decision, as offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva - a former Army ranger - stood just outside the players' tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The Chicago Bears initially remained quiet on the issue, deferring to Goodell's statement Saturday, but chairman George McCaskey issued a response Sunday, ahead of the game against the Steelers and after Trump doubled down on his remarks in a series of early-morning tweets.
"The Chicago Bears are proud to support our players, coaches and all members of our organization to bring peace and unity together through football," he said.
"What makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
Through important dialogue with our players and team, this divisive political situation has unified our franchise for the present and the future."
At the first football game of the day in London, at least seven members of the Baltimore Ravens and more than a dozen Jacksonville Jaguars took a knee during the anthem as the other players stood with arms locked together.
The rest of the day's games saw more protests, with the Seattle Seahawks and the Tennessee Titans later joining the Steelers in remaining in their respective locker rooms as a team during the anthem before their game.
"These are very divisive times for our country and you know, for us as a football team, it's about us remaining solid.
We're not gonna be divided by anything said by anyone," Tomlin said.
"People shouldn't have to choose," he continued.
"If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldn't be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldn't be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
Protests of this nature started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat, then kneeled, for the playing of the anthem beginning in Aug. 2016 to call attention to the oppression of minorities across the United States.
Kaepernick's actions sparked a national conversation that several other NFL players have joined, protesting on multiple occasions and continuing even after Kaepernick became a free agent at the end of the season.
Soldier Field was the site of one such demonstration last September, when members of the Philadelphia Eagles raised their fists in the air during the anthem ahead of their game against the Bears.
Jose Fernandez's close friends and family members, including his mother, say September 25th doesn't feel any different for them because every day since the Marlins pitcher's death has been just as painful.
Monday marks one year since the slugger's 32-foot See Vee plowed into a jetty in South Florida, killing him and two others.
Friends and family visited the site Sunday to remember the 24-year-old as well as Emilio Jesus Macias, 27, and Eduardo Rivero, 25.
Among the many tearful faces, there was only one innocent smile: that of his 7-month-old daughter, Penelope.
Shes exactly like him: her smile, her expressions, said Iliana de la Cruz, a family friend.
He always said he wanted his daughter to have his mothers blue eyes, and she has his blue eyes.
Hernandez's girlfriend, Maria Arias, was pregnant when he was killed.
She gave birth to Penelope five months after his death.
Even though he cant see her, I know that wherever he is, he is watching over her and protecting her, said Maritza Gomez-Fernandez, Fernandezs mother.
It has been a painful year for those who knew the Marlins pitcher and icon for the Cuban-American community.
He was only 24-years-old when his highly-promising baseball career ended in a violent boat crash.
His legacy remains a topic of debate ever since investigators revealed that Fernandez had alcohol and cocaine in his system when the boat he was operating boat struck a jetty at 65 mph, killing all three passengers on board.
On Sunday, Fernandezs loved ones chose to remember him as a kind soul who put his family above all else.
Its a legacy they will transmit to the baby girl he never met.
Anything she needs to know, I will be there to hell her, said Gomez-Fernandez, because I am the best person to tell her fathers story.
He instilled in all of us, his fans, his friends, his family, joy, comfort and he did something to us, he changed our lives forever, de la Cruz said.
The family plans to return to Government Cut on Monday morning, but will spend the rest of the day mourning privately.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country.
Katherine Creag reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

What to Know President Trump sparked outrage after he said NFL players who kneel during the national anthem should be fired

In response, players from across the country, including from the Giants and Jets, showed support for the protests during games Sunday

The Jets and Giants released statements showing solidarity with the players

Jets and Giants players locked arms at their respective games Sunday in a show of solidarity with NFL players across the country, dozens of whom demonstrated during the national anthem following inflammatory comments this weekend from President Trump.
At the Jets home opener, players from the Jets and Miami Dolphins both interlocked arms and knelt during the playing of the national anthem.
Members of the Giants and Philadelphia Eagles also locked arms at their game.
Some fans raised their fists to show support.
Giants co-owners John Mara and Steve Tisch released a joint statement Saturday, saying they take issue with Trumps statement.
Comments like we heard last night from the president are inappropriate, offensive and divisive.
We are proud of our players, the vast majority of whom use their NFL platform to make a positive difference in our society, the statement read.
NFL Players Link Arms After Trump's Comments

President Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked a mass increase in such protests around the NFL.
Ida Siegal reports.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

Jets officials came under criticism after they were initially silent following the presidents remarks.
In a statement, New York City Comptroller Scott Stringer said hes been a Jets fan all his life, but through all the seasons, what has disappointed me the most has been the last 36 hours and ownerships failure to condemn President Trumps hateful words.
Im shocked ownership would fail to reject hate from this White House, Stringer said in the statement.
On Sunday afternoon, Jets Chairman and CEO Christopher Johnson released a statement accompanied by photos of him locking arms with players.
It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during todays National Anthem.
We are very proud of our players and their strong commitment to work in our community to make a positive, constructive, and unifying impact, the statement read.
NFL players, coaches, owners and executives have used the anthems to show solidarity in the wake of comments Trump made about players who kneel during the anthem.
The president said those players should be fired and that football fans should boycott the NFL if the protests continue.
Trump NFL Remarks Spark Tidal Wave of Protest

More than 100 NFL players across the country knelt in protest Sunday following President Trump's controversial comments about NFL players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Ken Buffa reports.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Trumps initial remarks came at a rally Friday night, when he said: Wouldnt you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, Somebody get that son-of-a-b---- off the field right now, out!
Hes fired.
A handful of NFL players have refused to stand during the anthem to protest several issues, including police brutality.
But that number ballooned Sunday following the presidents two-day weekend rant that continued Saturday with the president rescinding a White House invitation for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors over star Stephen Curry's critical comments of him.
The movement started more than a year ago when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand during the national anthem as a protest to police treatment of racial minorities.
This season, no team has signed him, and some supporters believe NFL owners are avoiding him because of the controversy.
Those who have followed the drama unfolding this weekend between the president and athletes expressed varying views of the protests.
"I am an American, number one, and I understand where that feeling comes from," said Stephanie Deperna, of Albany.
"But at the same time, being a minority, I understand the feeling on the other side too."
"The stand-down, should it be illegal?
But you should have respect for your country.
Support your brother," Joseph Fasolina, of Plainview, said.
Protesters Rally Outside Giants-Eagles Game

People "took a knee" outside Lincoln Financial Field to show support for protesting players and to condemn comments President Trump made this weekend, including remarks that kneeling players should be fired.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

Others were simply taken aback by Trump's attacks on players and his calls for an NFL boycott.
"I was shocked.
That's not something you'd think you'd hear from the president," said Larry Reviera, of Brooklyn.
And some wanted to steer clear of the conversation altogether.
"Football and politics should stay on opposite ends," said New Rochelle resident Steve Stone.
As he left his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, for Washington, D.C., on Sunday, Trump addressed criticism his comments are inflaming racial tensions.
"This has nothing to do with race," he said.
"I've never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag."
Meanwhile, some NASCAR team owners including Richard Childress and Richard Petty sided with Trump, saying they would fire any employee who didn't stand for the anthem.
After days of criticism from President Donald Trump, NFL players knelt and protested in other ways during the national anthem of their games.
The protests began with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kickoff.
Before the games, Trump criticized the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying, "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at which players from which team took a stand, or didn't, against Trump's comments.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Bruce Maxwell of the Oakland Athletics discusses why he chose to become the first MLB player to take a knee during the playing of the national anthem.
Oakland Athletics' catcher Bruce Maxwell on Saturday took a knee during the playing of the national anthem, marking the first time a Major League Baseball player has performed such an act.
Footage captured before Oakland's contest against the Texas Rangers featured Maxwell, the son of an Army officer, drop to one knee and hold his hat against his heart while teammate Mark Canha lowered his hand on Maxwell's shoulder.
Maxwell's decision comes on the heels of President Donald Trump suggesting that NFL owners should fire any player who chooses to kneel for the national anthem.
Players across the NFL have been taking a knee, sitting or hoisting their fists into the air during the anthem ever since former San Francisco 49ers' quarterback Colin Kaepernick refused to stand for the anthem last fall in protest of racial injustice and unfair policing.
"The only platform right now that seems to be getting people's attention is athletes kneeling during the anthem, so I'm doing my part in doing that in baseball," Maxwell said after the game.
Bob Melvin, the manager of the A's, said Maxwell addressed the team before Saturday's contest and let them know about his plans to drop to one knee.
Melvin said some members of the squad had questions but added that Maxwell handled the situation "really well" and the team felt "comfortable" when all was said and done.
Khris Davis, a left fielder for the A's, applauded Maxwell for bravely following through.
"I thought it was very courageous," Davis said.
"I respect his decision."
Maxwell, who admitted that taking a knee for the national anthem was "one of the hardest things I've ever had to do," is not worried about the expected backlash coming his way.
"The end of the matter is, when people voice their opinions and it ruffles some feathers a little bit, then negativity always comes through, but at the same time, that's what's needed to make a change," he said.
Maxwell was born in Wiesbaden, Germany, while his father was stationed there in the Army.
He later moved to Alabama, where he attended high school and college.
Maxwell's agent, Matt Sosnick, told The Associated Press that "the Maxwells' love and appreciation for our country is indisputable."
"Bruce has made it clear that he is taking a stand about what he perceives as racial injustices in this country, and his personal disappointment with President Trump's response to a number of professional athletes' totally peaceful, non-violent protests.
"Bruce has shared with both me and his teammates that his feelings have nothing to do with a lack of patriotism or a hatred of any man, but rather everything to do with equality for men, women and children regardless of race or religion."
Maxwell took to Twitter earlier Saturday and wrote, "Don't be surprised if you start seeing athletes kneeling in other sports now!!
Comments like that coming from our president.
"Inequality is being displayed bigger than ever right now as our president shows that freeedom (sic) of protest and speech is not allowed..," Maxwell wrote in another tweet.
Minutes before Maxwell put his plan into action, the A's issued a statement of backing.
"The Oakland A's pride ourselves on being inclusive," the statement read.
"We respect and support all of our players' constitutional rights and freedom of expression."
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has "a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games" but that "we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump held a rally in Huntsville, Alabama, Friday night to endorse Sen. Luther Strange.
Here are some key moments from his speech.
Colin Kaepernick's mother has nothing but pride for her son's form of protest, despite President Donald Trump's critique of it.
At a rally in Alabama Friday night Trump said NFL owners should fire players who kneel, as Kaepernick did throughout the 2016 season, during the anthem and fans should consider walking out in protest

"Get that son of a b---- off the field right now.
He's fired!
He's fired!"
Trump said.
Replying to a tweet about a news article about Trump's comments, Kaepernick's mother Teresa Kaepernick said: "Guess that makes me a proud b----!"
Construction Begins on Border Wall Prototypes

South of San Diego, builders have started construction on eight prototypes of the US-Mexico border wall promised by President Donald Trump, and area officials are preparing for possible crowds of protesters.
(Published 6 minutes ago)

She was not the only one who spoke out against Trump.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, along with the NFL players' union, said Trump's comments are "divisive."
Many of the NFL players also joined in criticizing Trump.
Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman tweeted: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
Kaepernick's sideline protests became a national topic last year when said that he will not stand up "to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

France has become the first nation participating in the 2018 Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, to express doubts about going, given the ongoing tensions with North Korea, Reuters reported.
If the nuclear crisis deepens and "our security cannot be assured, the French Olympics team will stay at home," French Sports Minister Laura Flessel said Thursday on French radio.
But "we're not there yet," she added.
The games are being held in February just 50 miles from the heavily armed demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, currently trading threats  also involving the United States  after the north's recent nuclear and missile tests.
"Safety and security is one of the most important aspects of Games preparations," a spokesman for the organizing committee told Reuters in a statement.
Here's the Olympic Torch Relay Route to Pyeongchang
Twelve-time NBA All-Star guard Dwyane Wade plans to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers once he clears waivers on Wednesday, league sources told ESPN.
Wade, who agreed to a contract buyout with the Chicago Bulls on Sunday, will be an unrestricted free agent and sign a one-year, $2.3 million veterans minimum deal to reunite with LeBron James, league sources said.
Wade's relationship with James, cemented over four seasons and two NBA titles together with the Miami Heat, pushed the Cavaliers past the Oklahoma City Thunder, San Antonio Spurs and Miami in pursuit of Wade.
Wade, a three-time NBA champion and MVP of the 2006 NBA Finals, joins a formidable Cavaliers roster with James, Kevin Love, JR Smith and Tristan Thompson.
The Cavs will be without injured All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas until at least January.
The team will initially cut a non-guaranteed training camp invitee to make room for Wade on the 20-man training camp roster, a Cavs source told ESPN.
They will need to make an additional move beyond that to make space for him on the 15-man regular-season roster.
Cavaliers coach?Tyronn Lue said it will be a challenge with all the new players added to the Cavaliers' roster this offseason, but he and his players are up for it.
"Anytime you get new pieces and new players, it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge, and so are the players," he said.
"We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
Thompson said he expects Wade will fit in well with the Cavaliers' roster.
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team, whether playing against or playing with," he said.
"I think he's going to jell pretty well.
He's a veteran.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player on our team.
It's just more pieces to the puzzle."
Wade averaged 18 points for the Bulls last season.
In 14 seasons, he has averaged 23.3 points, 5.7 assists and 4.8 rebounds a game.
Wade, 35, gave back $8 million of his $23.8 million 2017-18 salary to reach a buyout agreement with the Bulls, league sources said.
ESPN's Dave McMenamin contributed to this report.
The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York announced federal corruption charges against four NCAA assistant basketball coaches on Tuesday.
The three-year FBI probe focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars to steer NBA-bound players toward sports agents, financial advisers and apparel companies.
Here's what we know regarding the federal probe into corruption and fraud in college basketball:

What are the charges?
As announced by U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim at a news conference on Tuesday, federal authorities have brought forth two distinct sets of allegations.
Under the first group of charges, the U.S. Attorney is alleging that assistant coaches at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and USC "took cash bribes" in order to steer elite basketball players toward certain financial advisors and sports agents.
The assistants named in the indictment are Chuck Person (Auburn), Emanuel Richardson (Arizona), Lamont Evans (Oklahoma State) and Tony Bland (USC).
Each of the coaches is charged with bribery conspiracy, solicitation of bribes, honest services fraud conspiracy, honest service fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and Travel Act conspiracy.
The U.S. Department of Justice said each of the coaches faces a maximum sentence of 80 years in prison.
In the second set of allegations, authorities say that James Gatto, on behalf of an unnamed "sportswear company," funneled "six-figure payments" to three players, who, in exchange, committed to play for particular college programs affiliated with the company.
Gatto is the director of global sports marketing for Adidas.
This set of charges includes a reference to a "public research university located in Kentucky."
University of Louisville interim president Gregory Postel confirmed in a statement that Louisville is the school mentioned.
Three of the four coaches were arrested Tuesday morning, along with James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for Adidas; Merl Code, another Adidas employee; Christian Dawkins, a former NBA agent; Munish Sood, a financial adviser; and two others.
Who is Marty Blazer?
In U.S. Department of Justice documents obtained by ESPN, Louis Martin "Marty" Blazer III is the witness who cooperated with the FBI in its investigation of the coaches and other defendants.
Blazer, a former Pittsburgh financial adviser who was accused of swindling $2.35 million from five clients by the Securities and Exchange Commission and founded Blazer Capital Management, was accused of investing money into movies and entertainment ventures without his clients' knowledge between 2010 and 2012.
As part of his plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's office, Blazer agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud, aggravated identity theft, false statements and documents, and two counts of wire fraud, according to the Sept. 19 cooperation agreement.
What is the scope of the alleged bribes?
The documents filed by prosecutors allege that the family of a "Player-10," former ESPN 100 recruit Brian Bowen, was to receive $100,000 from the "sportswear" company.
The government also charges that Person received $91,500 from sports agents and/or financial advisors, of which he is said to have forwarded $18,500 to players and their families.
Could other programs or individuals face charges?
The FBI investigation is ongoing.
An FBI spokesperson at Tuesday's news conference warned others who could be involved in corrupt practices.
"We have your playbook," the spokesperson said.
If you are involved in this, call us.
It will be better for you to call us than for us to call you."
A phone number for a tip line was given at the news conference for anyone who wants to come forward with information.
Why is giving money to an assistant coach or young basketball player against the law?
The charges brought forward include violations of federal statutes on bribery and wire fraud, among other laws.
Any assistant coach found to be taking bribes while employed by an institution receiving federal funds, for example, could be liable to prosecution under federal law.
What is the NCAA's reaction?
"The nature of the charges brought by the federal government are deeply disturbing," NCAA president Mark Emmert said in a statement.
"We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families, and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
We learned of these charges this morning and of course will support the ongoing criminal federal investigation."
The NCAA was made aware of the investigation on Tuesday as well.
Have the schools taken any action?
Auburn suspended Person without pay effective immediately.
Oklahoma State suspended Evans with pay.
Arizona suspended Richardson and relieved him of all duties.
USC placed Bland on administrative leave.
USC also announced that it has hired former FBI director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal investigation.
In 2011, Freeh conducted an internal investigation of the Penn State child sexual abuse scandal involving Jerry Sandusky.
What happens next?
As noted at the news conference, the FBI is still pursuing its efforts but no longer doing so as a "covert" investigation.
The phone number for the tip line is being prominently publicized, and no one can say how many more shoes will drop.
Speaking strictly in terms of college sports, the behaviors alleged by federal authorities constitute violations of NCAA bylaws.
According to official protocol, the NCAA notifies an athletic program that it is under investigation if the NCAA has found sufficient evidence.
Then a series of hearings are held, often in front of the NCAA's Committee on Infractions.
Lastly, after the NCAA renders its verdict and the program is given a chance to appeal, a final decision is handed down.
This can be anything from a reduction in scholarships or a postseason ban on the basketball team to a show-cause order on a coach that prohibits him from being hired by any member institution for a stated number of years.
NCAA investigations can take anywhere from a few months to a number of years to reach a resolution.
The NCAA's current investigation into alleged academic fraud at the University of North Carolina, for example, began in June 2014.
What about the head coaches at these programs?
The assistants charged by the authorities have larger concerns than their employment status right now.
As for the head coaches that employed them, the first question will be whether any of the charged defendants will come forward with information directly implicating their head coaches.
Assuming no further information comes out documenting that head coaches had knowledge of what was taking place, much will depend on these coaches' previous track records in terms of compliance with NCAA rules, as well as the language on their current contracts.
If the past is any guide, any terminations issued by university presidents could be made the subject of a wrongful termination suit by the head coach who was fired.
During his time with Louisville, the Cardinals basketball coach Rick Pitino has survived multiple scandals.
In 2010, he testified in a federal extortion trial involving Karen Sypher, who went to prison after trying to get money and gifts from Pitino in exchange for silence.
In 2015, the NCAA launched an investigation into a sex-for-pay scandal organized by former Louisville assistant coach Andre McGee that could force the Cardinals to vacate their 2013 national title and dozens of victories.
For that, Pitino will serve a seven-game suspension this season.
This all came after the school, hoping to soothe the NCAA and temper the sanctions, self-imposed a 2016 NCAA tournament ban.
Despite all this, Pitino kept his job.
But what was revealed Tuesday, if true, seems insurmountable.
The FBI arrested four prominent college basketball assistants from Oklahoma State, Auburn, Arizona and USC following an investigation surrounding a corruption scandal.
Documents from the investigation cite an arrangement between an unnamed Louisville staffer, high-ranking Adidas official James Gatto and others to funnel $100,000 to the family of a recruit who committed to the university over the summer.
"Shortly after the agreement with the family of Player-10 was reached in late May and early June, Player-10 publicly committed to University-6," the documents from the FBI's investigation stated.
Louisville revealed Tuesday afternoon that it is the unnamed "University-6" named by the FBI.
"[Louisville] is committed to ethical behavior and adherence to NCAA rules," interim president Gregory Postel said in a statement addressing the FBI's investigation.
"Any violations will not be tolerated."
Pitino is not named in the federal documents.
But he's the sullied leader of a program in the FBI's crosshairs.
If the FBI's allegations are validated, Louisville has only one option: Remove Pitino and athletic director Tom Jurich.
Pitino is facing a federal organization that puts people in prison.
That's why his latest problem trumps the previous incidents tenfold.
"These allegations come as a complete shock to me," Pitino said in a statement Tuesday night.
"If true, I agree with the U.S.
Attorneys Office that these third-party schemes, initiated by a few bad actors, operated to commit a fraud on the impacted universities and their basketball programs, including the University of Louisville.
Our fans and supporters deserve better and I am committed to taking whatever steps are needed to ensure those responsible are held accountable.
But the FBI and the United States Department of Justice have come to clean up the sport and the mess made by Louisville and other programs.
Joon H. Kim, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, made it clear in his news conference that his office is coming for anyone attached to the pay-for-play scandal and will continue to pursue additional indictments.
"It's better for you to call us than for us to be calling you when we're ready to charge you," Kim warned.
FBI assistant director Bill Sweeney doubled down.
"We have your playbook," he said.
"Our investigation is ongoing.
We are conducting additional interviews as we speak."
Years from now, this day may go down as the most crippling moment in the sport's history.
What happened Tuesday, and what is likely to follow in the days ahead, could flatten college basketball.
Every team in America, including Louisville, is asking the same question: How do we distance ourselves from this?
Louisville's sex-for-pay scandal led to a fine, the loss of scholarships, a suspension for Pitino, a 10-year show-cause penalty for McGee, vacated wins and a self-imposed postseason ban.
Imagine what the FBI -- and the NCAA investigation that will follow -- will do to the program.
The result could change Louisville forever.
In the Sypher case, Pitino reacted as the victim of an extortion scheme.
Sypher ended up with a seven-year prison sentence.
In the pay-for-sex scandal, Pitino repeatedly told anyone who would listen he never knew McGee had arranged parties with strippers and escorts for Louisville's top recruits and players.
After each of those incidents, Louisville stuck with Pitino despite the damage to the school's reputation and the NCAA penalties -- and the possibility of more NCAA penalties.?
His resume and stature in the sport helped him keep his job, too.
Pitino has won two national championships, reached seven Final Fours and won 770 games.
He's in the Hall of Fame.
If you just judge Pitino on his college accomplishments, only Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski has a more stellar resume among active coaches.
His history, and his personality, have convinced those in power and the fan base to stick with him.
This is about more than Louisville now.
This is potential prison time for those involved.
This is cash bribes, wiretaps and federal investigators, which were all used to uncover the major corruption.
This is a six-figure bribe allegedly arranged by multiple people to lure an elite prospect to Louisville.
The teams listed today might not recover for decades, if not longer.
The sport may never recover.
They don't care about Pitino's Final Fours and national titles.
And that might make this Pitino's last scandal.
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Aaron Rodgers and his Green Bay Packers teammates want fans at Lambeau Field for Thursday night's game against the Chicago Bears to join them in linking arms during the national anthem.
Most of the Packers' players did that on the sideline before Sunday's game against the Cincinnati, though three players -- Martellus Bennett, Lance Kendricks and Kevin King -- sat on the bench.
Rodgers said it's not a protest.
"This is about equality," Rodgers said Tuesday.
"This is about unity and love and growing together as a society and starting a conversation around something that may be a little bit uncomfortable for people.
But we've got to come together and talk about these things and grow as a community, as a connected group of individuals in our society, and we're going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we're going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together."
It sounds as if all the players -- even the ones who sat during the anthem on Sunday -- will participate after they held a meeting to discuss it.
"I think it was Marty's idea," said Kendricks, who sat he sat during the anthem to bring awareness to people in Puerto Rico affected by Hurricane Maria.
"Aaron spoke first and he kind of laid it out and laid out the fact that he's on our side and he understands the message being conveyed and trying to get across.
And then Marty wrote a statement and in the statement he said we're going to lock arms and he's going to challenge the fans to lock arms as well, so it kind of puts them in a position where it's like, 'Look you're either going to unite with us or you're not.'
I think that's really cool because it puts them in a position where it's like now we're talking to you, so you make a decision, peacefully make a decision."
Rodgers called the team meeting about it "fantastic."
"We kind of talked about a lot of things -- things I'm not going to talk about because it's meant for just the locker room -- but I think there's been a great sense of unity and love and support in this locker room, guys coming together," Rodgers said.
"Outside the building, I think the message has been diluted a little bit and it's been kind of taken away from what we were trying to do: show a united front, guys linking up together.
There's been a lot of hatred on my social media, probably other people's social media as well.
Frankly don't understand it, a lot of it."
New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. apparently has a different explanation the day after for his unsportsmanlike conduct penalty following a fourth-quarter touchdown catch against the Philadelphia Eagles.
Beckham pretended to walk like a dog after the score and simulated urinating on the field.
He said after the game there were no regrets and didn't mention anything about a connection to President Donald Trump's recent comments about NFL players.
That changed on social media Monday afternoon.
Beckham provided a much different explanation after the 27-24 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles.
"I'm a dog, so I acted like a dog.
I don't know if the rulebook said you can't hike your leg.
He said I peed on somebody, so I was trying to find the imaginary ghost that I peed on.
But I didn't see him," Beckham told reporters.
After scoring again late in the fourth quarter on a one-handed, acrobatic catch in the corner of the end zone, he raised his fist in the air to celebrate.
"Did it look like it [had meaning]?"
he said.
"OK. Well, if it looked like it, then it might have been something."
The Giants players were off on Monday and Beckham was not available for comment.
In one of the biggest crackdowns on the corrupting role of money in college basketball, 10 men  including a top Adidas executive and four assistant coaches  were charged Tuesday with using hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes to influence star athletes' choice of schools, shoe sponsors, agents, even tailors.
Some of the most explosive allegations appeared to involve Louisville, one of college basketball's biggest powerhouses, which is already on NCAA probation over a sex scandal.
Federal prosecutors said at least three top high school recruits were promised payments of as much as $150,000, using money supplied by Adidas, to attend two universities sponsored by the athletic shoe company.
Court papers didn't name the schools but contained enough details to identify them as Louisville and Miami.
"The picture of college basketball painted by the charges is not a pretty one," said acting U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim, adding that the defendants were "circling blue-chip prospects like coyotes" and exploited them to enrich themselves.
Prosecutors said that while some of the bribe money went to athletes and their families, some went to coaches, to get them to use their influence over their potentially NBA-bound players.
The coaches charged are Chuck Person of Auburn, Emanuel Richardson of Arizona, Tony Bland of Southern California and Lamont Evans of Oklahoma State.
Person and Evans were suspended, and Bland was placed on administrative leave.
Bland appeared in court in Tampa, Florida, wearing handcuffs and ankle chains.
He said little during a brief hearing other than to answer the judge's questions and did not enter a plea.
Richardson appeared in court in Tucson, Arizona, where he was set for release on $50,000 bond.
His lawyer declined to comment.
Those charged also include James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for basketball at Adidas; Rashan Michel, a maker of custom suits for some of the NBA's biggest stars; and various financial advisers and managers.
NCAA President Mark Emmert condemned the alleged misconduct, saying, "Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families, and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust."
Since 2015, the FBI has been investigating the influence of money on coaches and players in the NCAA.
Kim noted a special FBI hotline was set up and asked anyone aware of additional corruption to come forward.
Prosecutors said the coaches took bribes to use their "enormous influence" to steer players toward certain financial advisers and agents.
Most if not all of the 10 defendants were under arrest.
Lawyers for Gatto and two of the coaches did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
It was unclear whether Evans had an attorney.
Adidas said it was unaware of any misconduct by an employee and vowed to fully cooperate with authorities.
Gatto and others are accused of funneling $100,000 to the family of a high school athlete to gain his commitment to play at Louisville and to sign with Adidas once he became a professional.
Louisville and Adidas announced a 10-year, $160 million extension of their sponsorship deal over the summer.
The player's name was not released, but details in the criminal complaint make it clear investigators were referring to Brian Bowen, who did not return messages seeking comment.
Louisville coach Rick Pitino said the allegations "come as a complete shock to me."
The development comes as Louisville is appealing a four-year NCAA probation over a scandal involving escorts hired for players and recruits.
The scandal could cost the school its 2013 national championship.
In court papers Tuesday, the FBI said it recorded a July meeting at which an assistant coach at Louisville was briefed on a plan to funnel thousands of dollars to a potential high school recruit.
The participants in the meeting noted they had to be careful because Louisville was on probation.
"We gotta be very low key," said the coach, according to the FBI.
Investigators said agents wiretapped a call in which Gatto and another defendant discussed an unidentified coach at Miami requesting that Adidas pay as much as $150,000 to another recruit, in part to prevent him from accepting a similar offer from a rival apparel company.
Louisville interim President Gregory Postel confirmed the university has been informed it is part of the investigation and said, "Any violations will not be tolerated."
Miami said it will cooperate with authorities, while USC said it appointed former FBI Director Louis J. Freeh to conduct an internal investigation.
The investigation began after Martin Blazer, a Pittsburgh-based financial adviser to pro athletes, began cooperating with authorities in 2014.
Blazer, accused by the Securities and Exchange Commission of taking money from clients without permission, pleaded guilty this month to fraud and other crimes.
He admitted making payments and loans to NCAA athletes as far back as 2000 to get them to hire him.
Person, associate head coach at Auburn, was drafted by the Indiana Pacers in 1986 and played for five NBA teams over 13 seasons.
Prosecutors said Person accepted about $91,500 in bribes from Blazer last year to steer clients to him when they reached the NBA.
Some payments were alleged to have been arranged by Michel, a former NBA referee turned high-end clothier.
Person was quoted by prosecutors as telling one player: "The most important part is that you ... don't say nothing to anybody ... don't share with your sisters, don't share with any of the teammates, that's very important 'cause this is a violation ... of rules.
But this is how the NBA players get it done."
Prosecutors said Evans solicited at least $22,000 over the past two years, while Richardson in February was paid $20,000 in bribes, some of which he kept for himself and some of which he gave to at least one high school athlete to get him to play for Arizona.
Associated Press writers Fred Goodall in Tampa, Florida, Gary Graves in Louisville, Kentucky, Larry Lage in Detroit and Fred Lief in New York contributed.
The seamy underbelly of college basketball has always existed, despite the halfhearted and mostly futile efforts by the NCAA to make sure everybody plays fair.
Now that it's finally been penetrated by real lawmen, the only question is how many people the FBI ends up taking down.
The number stood at 10 Tuesday after federal prosecutors moved to arrest, among others, a top Adidas executive, and assistant basketball coaches from Arizona, Auburn, the University of Southern California and Oklahoma State.
They're charged in a bribery scheme to steer future NBA players toward selected sports agents and financial advisers.
But with mentions of people associated with the University of Louisville and University of Miami caught on wiretaps scheming to pay players as much as $150,000 to come to their schools, there figures to be a lot of nervous people in college basketball waiting for the other, er, shoe to drop.
Make no mistake about it.
These aren't bumbling NCAA inspectors leading the investigation into shady agents, shoe companies and unscrupulous coaches.
These are FBI agents and U.S. attorneys with great powers of both subpoena and persuasion.
Their investigation is not done and anyone leaning on the fence about whether to cooperate will have to balance their loyalty to programs with the very real fact they might go to prison if they don't fess up.
And fess up they will.
A day of reckoning may be coming for some big programs, and some big name coaches.
If the allegations are true  and there seem to be a lot of wiretaps supporting them  it also could mean the end of Rick Pitino's coaching career and possibly the end of the University of Louisville's powerhouse basketball program.
Yes, it looks as if Pitino is in trouble again, just months after the NCAA ordered the school to vacate its 2013 national title because strippers danced and performed sex acts for recruits and players.
Pitino was also suspended for five conference games and the school's basketball program put on four years' probation, actions he claimed were unjust because he said he knew nothing about what was going on.
Defiant then, he may not be so defiant now.
You can only blame rogue assistant coaches for so long.
Louisville is the school named in the complaint as University 6, where the family of a top basketball recruit was allegedly promised $100,000 in late May or early June if he signed with the school.
The FBI said it recorded a meeting in July where an assistant coach at Louisville was briefed on a plan to funnel thousands of dollars to the recruit's family, and the participants in the meeting noted they had to be careful because Louisville was already on probation.
According to the complaint filed in the Southern District of New York, the money was to be funneled through Adidas, whose director of basketball marketing was charged in the filing.
Just last month, Louisville and Adidas reached agreement on a 10-year, $160 million contract to equip and sponsor the school's sports teams.
Louisville announced on June 3 the unexpected signing of recruit Brian Bowen, who hadn't been considering the university previously.
Pitino at the time bragged to a local radio station he didn't have to spend a dime on recruiting visits for Bowen.
"In my 40 years coaching this is the luckiest I've ever been," Pitino said.
Pitino may not be feeling so lucky now.
If the allegations are proven the NCAA may have no choice but to can Pitino and give Louisville the death penalty, eliminating basketball at the perennial national contender.
Just as interesting were details in the complaint that outed Miami as the university where Adidas and another unnamed apparel company were involved in a bidding war for a 2018 recruit that reached $150,000.
The allegations shouldn't be a shock to anyone who has been around an incestuous sport laden with snake oil shoe salesmen, millionaire coaches and sleazy recruiters.
It's a place where business has always been conducted with handfuls of cash behind closed doors, with the powerless NCAA seemingly unable to do anything but count the billion dollars or so it gets each year for allowing the scam.
Now it's being exposed in a way that not long ago would have been unfathomable.
Now people are likely going to be sent to prison instead of being scolded by the NCAA.
That's a seismic change in the way punishment is handed out in big-time college athletics.
And it should make a lot of people in the sport very nervous.
Tim Dahlberg is a national sports columnist for The Associated Press.
Write to him at tdahlberg@ap.org or http://twitter.com/timdahlberg
Together again: LeBron and D-Wade.
Just like old times.
Dwyane Wade has decided to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers and reunite with LeBron James, a person familiar with the situation told the Associated Press on Tuesday night.
Wade is expected to clear waivers on Wednesday and then join the Cavs, according to the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal cannot be completed until the 12-time All-Star goes through the waiver process.
In Cleveland, Wade will be reunited with James, his close friend, former Miami teammate and a player he confided in before signing with his hometown Chicago Bulls last year.
Wade and James won two NBA titles together during four seasons with the Heat and will now chase another one with the Cavs, who have been revamped after losing to Golden State in last season's Finals.
On Monday, James said he would love to play with Wade again.
"He brings another championship pedigree, championship DNA," James said at Cleveland's media day.
"He brings another player to the team who can get guys involved, can make plays and also has a great basketball mind.
I hope we can bring him here.
I would love to have him."
Once Wade completes the waiver formality, he'll be the latest high-profile player to join the Cavs, who traded for All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas, signed former league MVP Derrick Rose and added two strong wing defenders in Jae Crowder and Jeff Green, who could help them defend the Warriors if those teams get back to a fourth straight Finals matchup.
Thomas isn't expected to play until January because of a hip injury, but until he returns the Cavs have plenty of firepower in James, Wade, Rose and All-Star Kevin Love, who could thrive as Cleveland's No.
2 scoring threat now that Kyrie Irving is in Boston.
Wade agreed to a contract buyout earlier this week with the Bulls, who signed him before last season as a free agent.
He'll get a veteran's minimum contract worth $2.3 million with Cleveland, which now has a surplus of shooting guards with Wade, J.R. Smith and Kyle Korver and Iman Shumpert on the roster.
Cavs coach Tyronn Lue has depth and decisions to make.
"There's a challenge every year when you add new guys and add all the guys we added," Lue said.
"Four or five new guys, it's always tough and challenging.
Anytime you get new pieces and new players it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge and so are the players.
We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
The Cavaliers emerged Tuesday as front-runners over the Heat and Oklahoma City Thunder to land the 35-year-old Wade, who many feel has plenty of game left.
He'll now have a shot at another championship  his fourth  while playing alongside James, whom he has been friends with since they broke into the league together in 2003.
When James left Cleveland as a free agent in 2010 and signed with Miami, much of his reason for leaving his home state was a chance to play with Wade and Chris Bosh.
Wade played his first 13 seasons in Miami, leaving in the summer of 2016 to sign a two-year deal with the Bulls.
But the Bulls are in a rebuilding mode after trading Jimmy Butler this summer, and instead of paying Wade $23.8 million to play for what likely will be a struggling team they agreed this weekend to buy him out and let him find a better situation.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Wade said whatever decision he makes would be "a pure basketball decision and I'll make the one that I feel fits me best at this point in my career and with what I feel I have to offer a team that needs what I have to offer."
Following practice on Tuesday, Cavaliers forward Tristan Thompson said Wade would be a great fit in Cleveland.
"He's a guy that's proven, not just individually, but a team that won three championships," Thompson said.
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player."
Wade has averaged 23.3 points, 4.8 rebounds and 5.7 assists in 14 seasons.
He averaged 18.3, 4.5 rebounds and 3.8 assists for the Bulls.
One of the game's premiere closers in the postseason, Wade has averaged 22.5 points, 5.3 rebounds and 5.0 assists in 172 playoff games.
AP Sports Writer Tim Reynolds contributed to this report.
More AP basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
The venues are there.
The city loves the Olympics.
The memories of the last games it hosted are still fairly fresh and mostly positive.
This is the story of Los Angeles, which will host the Summer Games in 2028.
It's also the story of Utah, which might get in the mix to host a Winter Olympics in 2026 or 2030.
The chairman of the LA bid was in Park City on Tuesday for the U.S. Olympic Committee media summit to discuss Los Angeles' recent victory; many of the questions he fielded, though, involved whether a U.S. bid for an upcoming Winter Games might make sense, too.
"Twenty-six is complicated, obviously," Casey Wasserman said.
"Obviously, there are real challenges from a timing perspective, two years before us.
But I think our approach has been, the Olympic Games, whether summer or winter, are good for American athletes.
Our intent is to be a good partner to the USOC and American athletes."
The USOC board will meet next month to discuss the possibility.
The same country hasn't hosted back-to-back Olympics since before World War II, though when the International Olympic Committee scrapped its traditional rules and awarded 2024 (Paris) and 2028 (LA) at the same time, it indicated it was certainly open to new ideas.
Salt Lake City hosted the Winter Olympics in 2002, and what remains there and in Park City pretty much adheres to Agenda 2020, the blueprint that IOC President Thomas Bach set for future Olympics, which calls for less spending on new venues and infrastructure.
Through a legacy foundation, the area has maintained an Olympic speedskating oval and a Nordic skiing course, each of which have drawn local athletes to their respective sports and could be used as part of an upcoming bid.
The Utah Olympic Park remains an active training ground for action sports, for both U.S. athletes and those from other countries who are invited to work out there.
Meanwhile, Utah likes the Olympics: NBC says Salt Lake City has ranked as either No.
1 or 2 among U.S. TV markets over the last three Winter Games.
Leaders of the movement to bring the games back to Utah have largely stayed quiet, not wanting to take the limelight from Los Angeles, which helped the U.S. put a stop to a long string of embarrassing losses on the Olympic bid front.
But a handful have told The Associated Press that there is enthusiasm for a potential bid if the USOC will sign on.
"There's fantastic momentum to have the Games come back.
I think we could do it for a very affordable price compared to the rest of the world," said Ted Morris, the executive director of U.S. Speedskating, which is based in the Salt Lake City area.
"In my opinion, looking at '26 is probably not realistic, but '30 seems like an opportunity."
The most complicating factor for either year would be a reworking of an agreement between LA and the USOC that transfers the USOC's marketing rights to the city's organizing committee over an eight-year span.
Adding another American Olympics to that mix would force some major renegotiations.
There's also the issue of the IOC bid process.
Bach has redrawn the rules for 2026, creating friendlier deadlines for cities to commit to a bid.
But he has not committed to a potential double award for 2026 and 2030, the way he did with 2024 and 2028.
Also, the USOC will have to consider Denver and Reno, Nevada, which also have expressed interest in hosting a Winter Games but would be behind the curve compared with Salt Lake City.
"Thomas Bach has publicly stated he'd like to see the Winter Games return to a more traditional location, and to me, that's code for Europe or North America," said USOC chairman Larry Probst, speaking to the fact that the hosts for 2014, 2018 and 2022 are Russia, South Korea and China.
"We've got to look at that, then develop a strategy about whether we're going to bid for the (2026) Winter Games or beyond that."
No matter what challenges his administration faces, President Donald Trump is keeping up his running commentary on the NFL  tweeting Tuesday about the football league's TV ratings and suggesting it bar players from kneeling during the national anthem.
The NFL, for its part, was not all that eager to continue the back-and-forth with Trump.
"He's exercising his freedom to speak," league spokesman Joe Lockhart said on a conference call with reporters, "and I'm exercising my freedom not to react."
Asked about the possibility of the NFL punishing players or league employees for actions during the pregame anthems, Lockhart said: "I will leave the hypotheticals and the speculation to others.
I'm not going to go down that road."
Trump brought up the topic for the fifth day in a row, dating to a speech to a crowd of supporters in Alabama on Friday night, when he referred to an NFL player making a gesture during "The Star-Spangled Banner" as a "son of a bitch."
In response, more than 200 players knelt or sat on a bench or took other actions during the anthems at games Sunday.
On Monday night, Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones  a staunch supporter of Trump  and his players knelt, arm-in-arm, before the anthem, then rose for the playing of the song ahead of the team's 28-17 victory at the Arizona Cardinals.
Some spectators at Arizona's stadium booed while the Cowboys knelt, which Trump tweeted was the "loudest I have ever heard."
Among his other tweets Tuesday: "The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can't kneel during our National Anthem!"
And this : "Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!"
The ratings for Monday's Cowboys-Cardinals game were up 63 percent from the equivalent game a year ago, which went up against a presidential debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton.
The ratings for Week 3 of the NFL season were 3 percent higher than the same week last season.
But viewership for national telecasts of NFL games is down 11 percent this season compared with 2016 through three weeks, according to the Nielsen company.
That figure does not include Monday's game.
Still, five of the 10 shows with the largest prime-time viewership numbers last week were NFL-related telecasts.
At a White House news conference Tuesday, Trump was asked whether he's spent too much time thinking about the NFL instead of dealing with the crisis in hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico.
"Well, I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL.
I don't think you can disrespect our country, our flag, our national anthem.
To me, the NFL situation is a very important situation," Trump responded.
"I've heard that before  about was I 'preoccupied.'
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work."
He went on to call kneeling during the anthem "disgraceful."
Attorney General Jeff Sessions weighed in, too, condemning NFL players who exercised their freedom of expression by kneeling silently during the anthem.
"These players, with all the assets they have, can express their political views without in effect denigrating the symbols of our nation, a nation that has provided our freedom to speak," Sessions said during an appearance at Georgetown University's law school.
Tennessee Titans wide receiver Rishard Matthews, whose father is a retired Marine master sergeant and whose half-brother died in Afghanistan as a defense contractor, said Tuesday on ESPN's NFL Live that he will kneel until Trump apologizes.
"He was calling a lot of us, and I feel that he was calling myself, an S.O.B., and that's not OK and very disrespectful," Matthews said.
"So I plan to kneel until the president apologizes."
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began kneeling during the anthem in the preseason a year ago to make a statement about social inequality and police treatment of blacks in the United States.
Kaepernick currently does not have a job in the NFL; six players engaged in some form of protest during the anthem at games the week before Trump brought up the matter.
"Whatever you think about what has happened over the last four or five days, people are more aware of these issues than they were Friday at 9 o'clock," Lockhart said.
"It's our job at every level of the league to make sure that we use this for good."
This story has been updated to include comments from Titans wide receiver Rishard Matthews that he plans to kneel until Trump apologizes for his comments.
Associated Press writer Sadie Gurman contributed to this report.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL



Follow Howard Fendrich on Twitter at http://twitter.com/HowardFendrich
What began more than a year ago with an NFL quarterback protesting police brutality against minorities by kneeling silently during the national anthem before games has grown into a roar with hundreds of players sitting, kneeling, locking arms or remaining in locker rooms  their reasons for demonstrating as varied as their methods.
Yet people rallying to defend players or decry the protests aren't talking about police brutality, or the fact that former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick is no longer employed by an NFL team.
Especially after President Donald Trump weighed in repeatedly to say that players should stand for the anthem or be fired for their defiance.
Before NFL games began Sunday, the discourse had morphed into a debate over the First Amendment, Trump's insults, how much the NFL has been paid by the U.S. government for its displays of patriotism and the overall state of race relations in America.
Support and criticism came from fields well beyond the gridiron, including NASCAR, the NBA, MLB, activists, journalists, entertainers and politicians.
Some worry that the expanded reasoning for the protests  fanned by the president's incendiary stance  could dilute the passion and the permanence of its original cause, drawing attention to interactions between police and minorities.
"The issue has morphed beyond that because Mr. Trump has interceded," the Rev.
Jesse Jackson said.
More than 200 NFL players and owners  even anthem performers  found ways to show dissent during pro football games over the weekend.
Raised fists and other gestures came after Trump's comments at a Friday night rally in Huntsville, Alabama, where he mused to the crowd: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now!
He's fired.
Fired!'"
Trump continued to criticize protesters Tuesday, saying in a news conference at the White House that he was "ashamed of what was taking place" with the kneeling protesters.
Trump said Americans have died and been injured in defense of their country.
"They were fighting for our flag, they were fighting for our national anthem and for people to disrespect that by kneeling during the playing of our national anthem, I think that's disgraceful," the president said.
Trump's remarks set off a firestorm on social media.
Ken Miles, a community organizer and entrepreneur living in Harlem, created a petition on Saturday around the emerging #TakeTheKnee hashtag in response.
"This weekend was just a reminder of the role that power plays in this conversation," said Miles, 32.
"The president of the United States leveraging his influence to call out players exercising their rights is an abuse of power."
The topic continued to dominate discussion in sports Monday as NFL players reflected, NBA teams met with reporters and Trump doubled down on his position with tweets, saying the issue had nothing to do with race and using the hashtag "#StandForOurAnthem."
"He doesn't understand the power that he has for being the leader of this beautiful country," Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James said.
Trump has rallied those to his side who are less interested in athletes' opinions than a perceived lack of patriotism.
The American Legion has called the protests and protesters "misguided and ungrateful."
"It wasn't political when it was written and it shouldn't be political today," American Legion National Commander Denise H. Rohan said Monday.
"Having a right to do something does not make it the right thing to do."
Fans are also noting the mixed messages.
"The original issue was police brutality," said Myles Conley, 42, a sales consultant from Atlanta.
"The issue has moved past police brutality.
Now it's ... racism in the NFL."
Conley said fans watch the NFL for entertainment and "now it's turning into an activists' platform," referring to domestic violence, player safety, race and other issues.
"All of these issues the NFL is making part of their program," he said.
"No one wants to hear that."
Protesters have supporters as well, including NAACP President Derrick Johnson.
"This isn't about football; it's about freedom," Johnson said Monday.
"It's about the ability of Americans to utilize their constitutional rights without punitive actions from their employers."
It's unclear whether  or how  the momentum will continue.
On Monday, Jackson called for a boycott of the NFL  some African-Americans have been doing that since the start of the season earlier this month  and picketing at pro football stadiums.
Some want the original intent of the protests to become the focus again.
Congressional Black Caucus chair Cedric Richmond noted that while some NFL owners, coaches and officials put out statements rebuking Trump, they didn't include why players originally felt the need to protest.
"They are taking a knee to protest police officers who kill unarmed African-Americans  men and women, adults and children, parents and grandparents  with impunity," the Democrat from Louisiana said.
"They are taking a knee to protest a justice system that says that being black is enough reason for a police officer to fear for his or her life."
Jozen Cummings, a columnist at VerySmartBrothas.com, wrote in a column Monday that the #TakeTheKnee movement has evolved into an "all-lives-matteresque, watered-down version of NFL players and owners against Trump."
"Kaepernick's cause got distorted into a protest about flags and against Trump when it was never intended to be against anybody," Cummings wrote.
"It was for people of color."
Miles said that while the support has taken various forms, people are leveraging their platforms to keep issues of systemic racism top of mind.
"Folks are elevating the conversation," Miles said.
"It's all connected, and there's a long list of things that have been going on.
This is about recognizing that the responsibility is on all of us and there is a role for all of us to play."
Corey Williams in Detroit and Tom Withers in Cleveland contributed to this report.
Williams, Holland and Whack are members of The Associated Press Race and Ethnicity Team.
Holland reported from Washington and Whack reported from Philadelphia.
Contact Holland at jholland@ap.org and follow him on Twitter at http://twitter.com/jessejholland or on Facebook at http://www.facebook.com/jessejholland .
Follow Whack on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/emarvelous .
Football coaches warn players not to say anything that could wind up on the opposing team's bulletin board.
When he set out to challenge NFL protesters, Donald Trump took the opposite tack.
He put up a billboard.
The president essentially called out-of-work quarterback Colin Kaepernick "an SOB" for taking a knee to protest racial injustice during the national anthem.
And any player who followed him?
"Fire 'em!"
Trump said.
He may have wound up inspiring them instead.
Almost all of the 200 players who took part in protests during Sunday's games were doing so for the first time.
They became "woke."
In follow-up interviews, Seattle coach Pete Carroll and linebackers Von Miller of Denver and Lorenzo Alexander of Buffalo discussed why their thinking changed, what they hoped to accomplish and whether they intend to continue protesting.
Not everyone kneeled, a gesture Kaepernick began during the Obama administration, when he still had a job and few followers.
This time, there was plenty of support and their defiance ran the gamut, from raising fists to staying seated to not showing up for the national anthem.
There were loud discussions in some locker rooms before teams arrived at a consensus about what to do.
They were greeted by boos in more than one stadium.
Some teams issued statements explaining their decisions.
Eight owners linked arms with their players.
Even Tom Brady got involved.
"We understand why people are upset about it," Carroll said .
"It is not about denigration of the flag, the country or anything that stands for.
It's not about that at all.
"It's about trying to get your feelings out and your ideas across.
Protests, just by the nature of the word, not everybody is going to agree  that's why it's a protest," he added.
Following are lightly edited transcripts:



Pete Carroll, 66, coach, Seattle Seahawks

"This isn't about the kind of salaries they make; they're very fortunate to be where they are and they know it and they have the courage to speak out.
"I think it's extraordinary that this is happening and I think it's a moment that we all can learn what we want to learn out of this.
I hope we learn about empathy, to listen, to come to an understanding what someone else feels without passing judgement.
It doesn't mean you're going to agree.
That's OK. That's OK.

"Hopefully, like I said, the compassion part will come about in the proper manner and there will be action taken and there will be movement made, and we'll come to an understanding.
It's hard.
It's hard, but it's good.
"Sports has always been the uniter.
It has never been the divider, it's been the uniter.
And to make it something other than that is a terrible mistake because it's an institution in our culture and in others around the world.
It demonstrates all of the beautiful things about culture and all of the beautiful things about bringing people together from different backgrounds and all and rallying for common goals."
Von Miller, 28, linebacker Denver Broncos

"Me and my teammates, we felt like President Trump's speech was an assault on our most cherished right, freedom of speech.
Collectively, we felt like we had to do something for this game, if not any other game, if not in the past, in the future.
At this moment in time, we felt like, as a team, we had to do something.
We couldn't just let things go.
"I have a huge respect for the military, our protective services and everything.
I've been to Afghanistan; I've met real-life superheroes.
It wasn't any disrespect to them, it was for our brothers that have been attacked for things that they do during the game, and I felt like I had to join them on it.
"I felt like it was an attack on the National Football League as well.
You know, he went on and talked about ratings.
This is my life, and I love everything about the National Football League.
From the commissioner, all the way down to the field tech guys and the chefs in the kitchen.
I try to keep out any politics or social issues and just try to play ball.
But I feel like it was an attack on us.
"If I'm not going to do anything in the future, if I haven't done anything in the past, I feel like this was the time to do something."
Lorenzo Alexander, 34, linebacker, Buffalo Bills

"Me taking a knee doesn't change the fact that I support our military.
I'm a patriot and I love my country.
But I also recognize there are some social unjustices in this country.
I wanted to take a knee in support of my brothers who have been doing it.
"I won't continue to do it, but I just wanted to show them that I was with them  especially in the backdrop of our president making the comments about our players, about their mothers.
And then you put that in conjunction with how he tried to gray-area neo-Nazism and KKK members as being fine people, I had to take a knee.
"And I was very emotional about it all day.
It wasn't like a kneejerk reaction.
I really had to think about what I wanted to do today.
People always say words never hurt, but words are very divisive, and it creates a lot of issues domestically and internationally.
He needs to really control himself."
AP Sports Writers Tim Booth and John Wawrow contributed to this report.
Jerry Jones says the Dallas Cowboys could be on to something after the owner persuaded his players to kneel together before the national anthem and stand during the song when the flag was displayed.
What the Cowboys did once the game against Arizona started could reverberate for them on and off the field.
Dallas recovered from a slow start after the unique display among many NFL responses to President Donald Trump's criticism and beat the Cardinals 28-17 on Monday night a week after another sluggish first half for the defending NFC East champs in a 42-17 loss to Denver.
Speaking on his radio show Tuesday, Jones said he told his players to trust him that such an approach could work as a way to avoid criticism for what some see as disrespect for the flag and the country.
"It wouldn't surprise me if the participation and the recognition of unity and recognition of equality, it wouldn't surprise me if that were a template going forward in the NFL," Jones said.
Coach Jason Garrett said the Cowboys have to figure out how much of their latest slow start had to do with them spending the 48 hours before the game deciding how to respond to Trump's suggestion that NFL players who kneel during the anthem should be fired.
Players, coaches and staff held several meetings, and many of those people joined in the display.
That included Jones and members of his family arm-in-arm with players in the middle of the field near the 50-yard line as boos rang out across University of Phoenix Stadium.
The Cowboys rose, still arm-in-arm, and stepped back to the sideline as the flag was unfurled across the field, followed by Jordin Sparks singing the anthem.
"I do think there was really good intensity and a really good look in the eyes of our players," Garrett said .
"They did not seem distracted to me.
But again, you have to go out there and play."
In their past two first quarters combined, the Cowboys have run 15 plays for 54 yards.
All they had against the Cardinals was one three-and-out possession totaling 3 yards as the defense struggled as well.
But quarterback Dak Prescott ended up with an inspiring head-over-heels flip at the goal line on a 10-yard scoring run and two touchdown passes.
Receiver Dez Bryant carried several defenders into the end zone with a helpful push from center Travis Frederick.
And 2016 NFL rushing champion Ezekiel Elliott finally had his first long run and touchdown of the season.
"Our team just became closer," said 15th-year tight end Jason Witten , a staunch supporter of standing for the anthem.
"I know these guys over the weekend there were a lot of different decisions.
Some guys felt the need, they knelt.
I can respect that decision."
Garrett sidestepped a question on whether the Cowboys would do something similar Sunday against the Los Angeles Rams in their first home game since the display.
The Dallas coach praised his team's ability to balance game preparation with multiple discussions over the Trump-fueled issues, despite the slow start.
"I think the fact that they're a good football team maybe had as much to do with that as anything," Garrett said.
"We didn't execute to the level we needed to.
But we were real pleased with how our team fought and kept battling."
The Cowboys (2-1) are tied for the division lead despite the troubling outing in Denver  the worst game together for Prescott, last year's NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year, and Elliott.
And a near-repeat in the first half against the Cardinals.
"It brought back memories of Denver," Jones said.
"And then all of a sudden you turn up and we start having what we looked we started getting a little daylight.
I believe we'll look back and say, 'This team grew up that night.'"
More AP NFL: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
His players unable to reach agreement on how to respond to President Donald Trump's suggestion that NFL players who protest during the national anthem should be fired, Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin signed off on their decision to remain in the tunnel before kickoff last weekend in Chicago.
The Steelers, in their words, were attempting to find middle ground.
Turns out, there might not be any.
And if Tomlin is being honest, he's no longer interested in the search.
"You're asking us about middle ground, you're asking us about right or left," Tomlin said Tuesday .
"We're a football group.
That's what you guys don't understand.
"We don't care, largely, professionally speaking.
We have personal opinions yes.
Professionally, we're about to kick a ball off."
And Tomlin would prefer to get back to doing his job, a concept complicated by the fallout from the visual of 52 of his 53 players remaining in the tunnel while the anthem played at Soldier Field as left tackle Alejandro Villanueva  a West Point graduate and former Army Ranger  stood alone with his hand over his heart on the fringe of the field as "The Star-Spangled Banner" blared.
Villanueva apologized on Monday for what he called the team's "butchered" plan to have him remain at the front of the line but still out of sight.
While longtime fans took to social media or inundated the team's headquarters with phone calls and emails in anger, the franchise tried to find a way to clearly explain its stance it stresses wasn't really a stance at all.
Villanueva, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger and defensive end Cam Heyward went to great lengths on Monday to point out the team was not disrespecting the anthem by not participating but simply trying to extricate from the dilemma entirely.
Team president Art Rooney II released an open letter to fans on Tuesday to clear up what he called a "misperception" of the club's actions.
"The intentions of Steelers players were to stay out of the business of making political statements by not taking the field," Rooney wrote.
"Unfortunately that was interpreted as a boycott of the anthem, which was never our players' intentions."
Tomlin pointed out the team has had "100 percent participation" during the anthem since the movement of some form of silent protest began with former San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick last summer.
That threatened to change, however, following a speech by Trump last week in which he called for owners to deal with a protesting player by getting "that son of a bitch off the field right now."
"The statements made last week, that put potentially some of those attitudes we've been proud about (at risk)," Tomlin said.
When asked which statements specifically, Tomlin added "the SOBs statement.
The statements that seemingly goad certain athletes into demonstrating."
During a lengthy team meeting on Saturday night, several players expressed an interest in protesting in some fashion but no consensus could be reached so the Steelers tried to extricate themselves from the situation entirely.
"Things are happening around them that apply pressure to them," Tomlin said.
"Whether they feel like they're being goaded and that's your perception or there's another perception that those that oppose some of (Trump's) statements are applying pressure on players to demonstrate.
"I'm opposed to both factions to be quite honest with you.
I'm an advocate for players.
I'm an advocate for those that simply want to do their jobs."
The Steelers plan to be on the field during the next Sunday when they play in Baltimore, though they're not sure whether they'll simply stand at attention or engage in some form of united expression of unity.
"It's not that we're not socially conscious, not that we're not community conscious," Tomlin said.
"We just don't believe in demonstrations.
We believe in impact.
So we give ourselves and free time in that area, Tuesdays (normally) being that day, not moments before kickoff."
Roethlisberger and linebacker Arthur Moats hinted the emotions surrounding Trump's remarks and the ensuing internal discussion about how to handle the anthem may have played a role in Pittsburgh's 23-17 overtime loss to the Bears.
Tomlin acknowledged the noise is difficult to drown out but added it's hardly an excuse.
"Hopefully we learn something from this week's past experiences in terms of being able to be singularly focused in the midst of a potential storm that's outside of our control," he said.
"Was it a distraction?
I'm sure it was in a lot of ways but we still got a job to do and hopefully we learn from it."
Tomlin was on the sideline during the anthem, away from his players, something he said he did to get comfortable in unfamiliar surroundings.
The Steelers plan to be next to him this weekend.
Whatever the players may do, Tomlin doesn't really care so long as they do it together.
"We have nothing to hide," Tomlin said.
"We're just a group trying to play football and people are using us in these circumstances for their benefit and we resist it."
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
A few generations before Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas were even born, Ford Motor Co. put together a group of golfers known as the "Young Thunderbirds" to promote the rising stars on the PGA Tour.
"We played a lot of practice rounds together," said Johnny Miller, part of that group that included Lanny Wadkins, Jerry Heard, Jim Simon and Grier Jones.
"You just push each other, and we separated ourselves from all the other young players."
What caused Miller to think back to the early 1970s was what he saw at East Lake for the Tour Championship, and what he will see this week at Liberty National for the Presidents Cup.
The only difference was a car company promotion  and the size of the group.
Thomas won the FedEx Cup when he pulled away from Spieth over the final hour.
They won the final two majors of the year.
Both are 24 and have been close friends since they first met at a junior event in Texas that Spieth won 10 years ago.
Xander Schauffele won the Tour Championship by saving par four times on the back nine and closing with a birdie.
He ended his rookie season with two victories, though it was too late to be considered for the Presidents Cup.
He turns 24 later this year and is  or was  an unheralded member of that fabled high school class of 2011.
"It's not just the three of us," Schauffele said.
"I think I've always been on the outside looking in.
You've got Justin, you've got Jordan, you've got Daniel Berger, you've got Emiliano Grillo.
Hideki (Matsuyama) is also young.
Jon Rahm is even younger than us.
It's kind of weird being in their company.
I said I got annoyed talking about them so much before, but yeah, they push me.
And I can't thank them enough."
Complete records on the PGA Tour date to 1970, but this one was no less staggering.
Players under the age of 25 won 18 times this season, shattering the previous mark of 10 set in 2000.
And the previous record deserves an asterisk because Tiger Woods won nine of those events at age 24.
Throw in anyone in their 20s, and they accounted for 28 victories, or 58 percent of PGA Tour events.
The Presidents Cup features six players in their 20s on both teams.
The Americans haven't been this stacked with youth since before these guys were born.
Woods was the only American in his 20s at the 2004 Ryder Cup and the 2005 Presidents Cup.
Then he turned 30, and the Americans had no one in their 20s at The K Club in Ireland for the 2006 Ryder Cup.
The U.S. team at Liberty National has Spieth, Thomas, Berger, Brooks Koepka, Rickie Fowler and Patrick Reed.
"I think they're in pretty good shape in the future with those guys," Miller said.
That's how it was in 1998 at the Presidents Cup in Australia, when the first five qualifiers for that U.S. team  David Duval, Woods, Jim Furyk, Justin Leonard and Phil Mickelson  were all in their 20s.
That figured to be the core of American golf for years to come, and it nearly was.
Duval lost his way through injury and confidence after his British Open title in 2001, while Leonard made the putt heard 'round the world at Brookline a year later until his team appearances became more inconsistent.
"It is such a young game right now," Thomas said Tuesday.
"I was also thinking, 'Is it going to stay young?'
We're going to be in our 30s at some point.
But if we can keep playing well, stay competitive, keep pushing each other ...
I feel like there's a good chance that all of us  at least four or five of us  will continue hopefully play on a lot of these teams for consecutive years.
"But there's going to a lot of others coming out of college who are going to want to take our place."
The relationships they have forged certainly help, and this goes beyond Instagram posts from their spring breaks.
Woods and Mickelson never hung out in the Bahamas, much less the locker room, unless they were playing a Ryder Cup or Presidents Cup.
They also are about 5 years apart in age.
Most of this generation grew up facing each other no matter where they were from because of how organized junior golf has become.
U.S. captain Steve Stricker can see this group a decade from now, at least a chunk of it.
He knows as well as anyone that form can disappear.
So can good health.
But it's the relationship he finds so intriguing.
"When one guy does something well, wins a tournament, it's almost a shot in the arm to another guy and he goes out and plays really well," Stricker said.
"It's really cool, and a great outlook for USA team golf."
And we begin with what authorities are calling a humanitarian disaster in Puerto Rico.
More than 3 million American citizens live there.
And tonight, the president is asked, was he preoccupied with the NFL and his tweets?
The president tweeting 24 times about the NFL, but he did not tweet about
One of Trevor Bauer's infamous drones is missing.
The Indians won't help him look for it.
The Cleveland pitcher, who also is an enthusiast of flying the unmanned, remote-controlled devices, lost the drone on Monday in a suburban park where he was zipping it around trees and other obstacles with a
The controversy between President Donald Trump and NFL players who refuse to stand during the national anthem is the latest example of a decades-long trend in which top athletes have used sports as a platform to express their political views.
On Tuesday, Trump took to Twitter to urge the NFL to
The Latest on the sports world reacting to President Donald Trump's remarks about pro football (all times Eastern): 9 p.m.
When you add up the numbers, about one in eight NFL players did not stand for the national anthem this weekend.
AP reporters and photographers counted the players kneeling or
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand
Now that the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has formally announced its charges against four NCAA assistant basketball coaches, here's what we think we know going forward regarding the federal probe into corruption and fraud in college basketball.
What are the charges?
PHOENIX -- The Phoenix Suns have signed forward T.J. Warren to a multiyear contract extension.
The contract, according to ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski, is worth $50 million over four years.
"We are excited about extending T.J.'s contract," said General Manager Ryan McDonough.
"T.J. has improved every year, and we think he has the potential to continue to grow as he just begins to approach his prime.
We view T.J. as an important part of our young core going forward and we are glad that we were able to reach an agreement on this extension."
Warren, a 6-8, 215-pound forward, is entering his fourth NBA season and averaged career highs of 14.4 points, 5.1 rebounds, 1.2 steals and 31.0 minutes in 66 games (59 starts) in 2016-17.
The 24-year-old shot 49.5 percent from the field.
He averaged 17.6 points on 56.0 percent shooting following last season's All-Star break.
Warren has a career shooting percentage of 50.2 percent from the field while averaging 11.2 points per game.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. (AP) -- Prosecutors have decided not to file charges against Miami Dolphins receiver Jarvis Landry over allegations of domestic violence.
The Broward State Attorney's Office said an investigation determined there was "no reasonable likelihood" of a conviction.
The case involved an April 1 encounter between Landry and Estrella Cerqueira, the mother of their daughter.
"The victim maintains that the defendant did not intent to touch her (or) strike her, but accidentally did so," said a memorandum filed Monday by assistant state attorney Stefanie Newman.
There were no witnesses to the encounter at Landry's residence, and video surveillance appeared to corroborate Cerqueira's account, the prosecutor said.
Cerqueira said in the statement in August that the couple had a "vocal disagreement," but that she never felt physically threatened and that nothing violent took place.
She wasn't injured and didn't seek medical attention, the prosecutor said.
Landry said he appreciated the work by investigators.
"I am thankful that they were able to come to a conclusion that reaffirms the true facts that no crime was committed," Landry said in a statement released Tuesday by his agent.
"My daughter's mother and I will continue to co-parent to raise our child in a happy and healthy environment."
Under the NFL's personal conduct policy, Commissioner Roger Goodell has the authority to suspend players without criminal convictions.
The league amended the policy three years ago to strengthen punishments in domestic cases.
The Dolphins said last month they were aware of the Landry investigation.
TEMPE, Ariz. -- A pair of painfully familiar problems surfaced in the Arizona Cardinals' 28-17 loss to the Dallas Cowboys.
First, the offensive line had a rough time holding off the Cowboys' pass rush Monday night, especially right tackle Jared Veldheer.
And the Arizona defense, after playing well for three quarters, couldn't hold off Dallas when the game was on the line in the fourth.
It was almost exactly the same pattern that Arizona exhibited in its other loss, 35-23 at Detroit in the season opener.
So the Cardinals find themselves 1-2 heading into Sunday's matchup with NFC West foe San Francisco.
Coach Bruce Arians praised quarterback Carson Palmer, who was under extreme duress much of the night but still completed 29 of 48 passes for 325 yards and two touchdowns with no interceptions.
"I don't think our quarterback could have played any better," Arians said.
"He was lights out from start to finish.
Even getting hit that many times, he moved his feet great.
He was around the pocket.
He was the quarterback I knew we'd see all year, and we can win with Carson playing like that."
If he can stay healthy.
The Cowboys had 11 quarterback hits and sacked Palmer six times, three by Demarcus Lawrence, who repeatedly beat Veldheer, the big tackle who was moved from the left to the right side this season.
The problems, Arians said, are "mostly on the right side" of the line.
Second-year pro Evan Boehm has had some growing pains, but Veldheer has been the chief culprit.
"Just wasn't good enough," Veldheer said after the game, adding that the only way to improve things is to study tape and fix the mistakes.
General manager Steve Keim, in his weekly radio appearance, was highly critical of Veldheer.
"I don't think it has anything to do with (Veldheer moving to) right tackle," Keim said.
"The fact of the matter is he has to get better.
He's got to improve all the little things -- his footwork, his technique, his hand placement and get back to basics.
"Again, 64,000 people saw it last night.
Jared is a prideful guy, and I expect nothing less than for him to be in here this week and make some improvements."
Arians said Veldheer's problems are "just technique."
"It was the same problem he had on the left side," Arians said, "of being bull rushed and not getting his hands on people.
He's got to get his hands on people.
If he gets his hands on people, he's big and strong and won't get bull rushed."
To make matters worse, the Cardinals have two new injuries on the offensive line.
Alex Boone, who had replaced the injured Mike Iupati at left guard, and John Wetzel, playing in place of injured D.J.
Humphries at left tackle, both have triceps injuries and were to undergo MRIs.
Then there are those fourth-quarter woes.
At Detroit, Arizona led 17-15 after three quarters and was outscored 20-6 in the fourth.
On Monday night, the game was tied at 14-14 after three quarters, and the Cowboys outscored the Cardinals 14-3 in the fourth.
"That's two games that we had a chance to win in the fourth quarter and didn't get it done," Arians said, "one on the road and one at home.
It wasn't effort, it was just executing on a couple of plays."
It didn't help that the Cardinals had a drive of nearly nine minutes late in the first quarter and early in the second and came up empty.
A touchdown pass was negated by a holding penalty, then Phil Dawson missed a 36-yard field goal try.
That's the 42-year-old kicker's third miss in three games.
Kicking for San Francisco, Dawson missed three field goals all of last season.
No one had a better game, though, than Larry Fitzgerald, who tried to will the Cardinals to victory with a huge night, highlighted by a circus catch in traffic for a first down on a third-and-18 play.
Fitzgerald was targeted 15 times and caught 13 of them, matching a career high for receptions in a game, for 149 yards.
Now the Cardinals have a short week to prepare for the 49ers, who should be well-rested after a loss to the Los Angeles Rams last Thursday night.
One consolation for the Cardinals is that no one is dominating the NFC West.
Seattle, San Francisco and Arizona are all 1-2.
The Rams lead it at 2-1.
Ender Inciarte added a 2016 Gold Glove and 2017 All-Star appearance to his major-league resume in the span of eight months.
Now, it needs another update: 200-hit season.
On Tuesday night, the Atlanta Braves standout center fielder became the franchises first player since Marquis Grissom in 1996 to log 200 or more hits in a single season.
The milestone hit arrived off New York Mets starter Rafael Montero in the first inning, a line-drive double.
"There it isnumber 200!"
@enderinciartem reaches a the 200 hit milestone w/ a leadoff double.
#ChopOn pic.twitter.com/CKirvhxfqp  FOX Sports: Braves (@FOXSportsBraves) September 26, 2017

Inciarte, who signed a six-year extension after his first season in Atlanta, entered the final six games of the campaign hitting .306/.351/.412 in 704 plate appearances with 11 home runs and 22 stolen bases.
The 26-year-old outfielder has also added 92 runs and 57 RBI.
He is just the fourth player to reach the milestone in a Braves uniform since the organization moved to Atlanta:

SEASON PLAYER HITS WAR (FANGRAPHS) 1971 Ralph Garr 219 4.8 1966 Felipe Alou 218 6.1 1974 Ralph Garr 214 4.9 1968 Felipe Alou 210 6.2 1996 Marquis Grissom 207 4.6 2017 Ender Inciarte 200* 3.0* 1973 Ralph Garr 200 1.1

*Through 156 team games

Entering Tuesdays action, only Colorado Rockies All-Star Charlie Blackmon had more hits in the majors in 2017.
(Inciarte was tied with Houston Astros second baseman and American League MVP candidate Jose Altuve.)
"He's taken such big strides over the last twoyears hitting and you can see all his hard work pay off," Braves starting pitcher Mike Foltynewicz said.
"If he doesn't get a hit, he's mad.
You can tell his competitiveness and just how he wants to play the game."
Football coaches warn players not to say anything that could wind up on the opposing team's bulletin board.
When he set out to challenge NFL protesters, Donald Trump took the opposite tack.
He put up a billboard.
The president essentially called out-of-work quarterback Colin Kaepernick "an SOB" for taking a knee to protest racial injustice during the national anthem.
And any player who followed him?
"Fire `em!"
Trump said.
He may have wound up inspiring them instead.
Almost all of the 200 players who took part in protests during Sunday's games were doing so for the first time.
They became "woke."
In follow-up interviews, Seattle coach Pete Carroll and linebackers Von Miller of Denver and Lorenzo Alexander of Buffalo discussed why their thinking changed, what they hoped to accomplish and whether they intend to continue protesting.
Not everyone kneeled, a gesture Kaepernick began during the Obama administration, when he still had a job and few followers.
This time, there was plenty of support and their defiance ran the gamut, from raising fists to staying seated to not showing up for the national anthem.
There were loud discussions in some locker rooms before teams arrived at a consensus about what to do.
They were greeted by boos in more than one stadium.
Some teams issued statements explaining their decisions.
Eight owners linked arms with their players.
Even Tom Brady got involved.
"We understand why people are upset about it," Carroll said .
"It is not about denigration of the flag, the country or anything that stands for.
It's not about that at all.
"It's about trying to get your feelings out and your ideas across.
Protests, just by the nature of the word, not everybody is going to agree -- that's why it's a protest," he added.
Following are lightly edited transcripts:

Pete Carroll, 66, coach, Seattle Seahawks

"This isn't about the kind of salaries they make; they're very fortunate to be where they are and they know it and they have the courage to speak out.
"I think it's extraordinary that this is happening and I think it's a moment that we all can learn what we want to learn out of this.
I hope we learn about empathy, to listen, to come to an understanding what someone else feels without passing judgement.
It doesn't mean you're going to agree.
That's OK. That's OK.

"Hopefully, like I said, the compassion part will come about in the proper manner and there will be action taken and there will be movement made, and we'll come to an understanding.
It's hard.
It's hard, but it's good.
"Sports has always been the uniter.
It has never been the divider, it's been the uniter.
And to make it something other than that is a terrible mistake because it's an institution in our culture and in others around the world.
It demonstrates all of the beautiful things about culture and all of the beautiful things about bringing people together from different backgrounds and all and rallying for common goals."
-- --

Von Miller, 28, linebacker Denver Broncos

"Me and my teammates, we felt like President Trump's speech was an assault on our most cherished right, freedom of speech.
Collectively, we felt like we had to do something for this game, if not any other game, if not in the past, in the future.
At this moment in time, we felt like, as a team, we had to do something.
We couldn't just let things go.
"I have a huge respect for the military, our protective services and everything.
I've been to Afghanistan; I've met real-life superheroes.
It wasn't any disrespect to them, it was for our brothers that have been attacked for things that they do during the game, and I felt like I had to join them on it.
"I felt like it was an attack on the National Football League as well.
You know, he went on and talked about ratings.
This is my life, and I love everything about the National Football League.
From the commissioner, all the way down to the field tech guys and the chefs in the kitchen.
I try to keep out any politics or social issues and just try to play ball.
But I feel like it was an attack on us.
"If I'm not going to do anything in the future, if I haven't done anything in the past, I feel like this was the time to do something."
-- --

Lorenzo Alexander, 34, linebacker, Buffalo Bills

"Me taking a knee doesn't change the fact that I support our military.
I'm a patriot and I love my country.
But I also recognize there are some social unjustices in this country.
I wanted to take a knee in support of my brothers who have been doing it.
"I won't continue to do it, but I just wanted to show them that I was with them -- especially in the backdrop of our president making the comments about our players, about their mothers.
And then you put that in conjunction with how he tried to gray-area neo-Nazism and KKK members as being fine people, I had to take a knee.
"And I was very emotional about it all day.
It wasn't like a kneejerk reaction.
I really had to think about what I wanted to do today.
People always say words never hurt, but words are very divisive, and it creates a lot of issues domestically and internationally.
He needs to really control himself."
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -- It's entirely possible, Penn State coach James Franklin said Tuesday, that last Saturday's 21-19 victory at Iowa took years off his life.
"I started out that game at 45 years old," he joked, "and I finished the game at 55."
The No.
4 Nittany Lions marched 80 yards in 12 plays in the final 1:42, culminating in Trace McSorley's 7-yard touchdown pass to Juwan Johnson as time expired.
"I think if you look at any really good season, there's always one game like that," Franklin said, "where you have to gut it out and find a way to win.
And our team's gritty and we found a way to do it."
The Lions, 4-0 heading into Saturday's home game against Indiana (2-1), have won 13 of their last 14 games, dating to last September.
Their only loss in that span was a 52-49 thriller to USC in the Rose Bowl.
"We know how special we can be," offensive tackle Ryan Bates said.
"I think after Iowa, after last Saturday, we know what we can do.
We know what the season can be for us."
Bates added that the Lions believe they boast "the best offense in the country," while acknowledging there is always room for improvement.
"We know our potential," he said, "and we know the sky's the limit with us."
That's especially true of running back Saquon Barkley, a leading contender for the Heisman Trophy.
Barkley was named the Maxwell Award Player of the Week after accumulating a school-record 358 all-purpose yards against the Hawkeyes, including 211 rushing yards on 28 attempts.
He leads the FBS in all-purpose yards per game (253.3).
He is 11th in the nation in rushing at 129.5 yards per game.
Barkley also has 23 receptions for a Big Ten-leading 335 yards.
"Can't imagine there's a better player in all of college football," Franklin said.
The Hoosiers beat Georgia Southern 52-17 last week.
Freshman Morgan Ellison ran 25 times for 186 yards and two touchdowns and J-Shun Harris returned a punt for a touchdown for the second straight week.
"It was a game where we were supposed to win," said Indiana first-year coach Tom Allen, "and I felt like our players prepared and played in a manner that you expect them to."
Allen held out wide receiver Donavan Hale, running back Mike Majette, guard Simon Stepaniak and cornerback Rashard Fant, mostly for precautionary health reasons, but the coach did not commit Monday to any of them returning this week.
Four others players -- quarterback Richard Lagow, cornerback A'Shonn Riggins, defensive tackle Nate Hoff and safety Marcelino Ball -- suffered unspecified injuries against Georgia Southern.
Lagow is expected to play this week, while the other three are questionable.
IU is last in the Big Ten -- and 102nd among 129 FBS teams -- in rushing defense, allowing 196.3 yards a game.
The Hoosiers are next-to-last in the conference in total defense (428.3) and third from the bottom in scoring defense (27.7).
They have yet to log an interception this season, but linebacker Tegray Scales has recorded a team-leading 26 tackles, 2 1/2 for loss.
Last year he generated an FBS-leading 23 1/2 tackles for loss among his 126 stops.
49

View Gallery





Troy Babbitt-USA TODAY Sports | Troy Babbitt

The Nittany Lions enjoyed a 579-273 yardage advantage against Iowa but struggled to finish drives.
They were inside the 15 on four occasions before the decisive march and came away with a single touchdown.
"When you get into the red zone, all the details are magnified because you've just got less field and you've got less space," Franklin said.
"We've just got to do a better job with those things, which I know we will."
McSorley has completed 66.1 percent of his passes for 1,037 yards and 10 touchdowns.
He has been intercepted three times.
Penn State also leads the FBS in scoring defense, having allowed an average of 8.3 points a game, including shutouts of Akron and Georgia State.
Safety Marcus Allen has recorded a team-high 24 tackles as well as a sack and an interception.
"It's a tremendous challenge for our program," Allen said.
"You know, you get to points in seasons when you want to be healthy.
Sometimes you are; sometimes you're not.
And other young men have to rise up and play to a level that you expect them to.
You look across the country and other teams are dealing with the same thing and you have to pony up, as we say."
MIAMI (AP) -- Two people familiar with the decision say linebacker Lawrence Timmons' suspension has been lifted after one week by the Miami Dolphins, and he's eligible to play Sunday against the New Orleans Saints in London.
The people confirmed the move to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity Tuesday because the Dolphins have not commented.
Timmons was suspended indefinitely after he went AWOL the day before the Dolphins' season-opening win at the Los Angeles Chargers.
The Dolphins filed a missing person report before making contact with Timmons, who apparently was dealing with a personal matter.
Coach Adam Gase was angered by the disappearance of Timmons, who wasn't with the Dolphins at their opener and didn't fly back to South Florida on the team plane after Miami's 19-17 win.
118

View Gallery





Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY Sports | Steve Mitchell
Eight position players and eight pitchers in the Kansas City Royals' minor leaguesystem have been cited as the best performers at their respective affiliates, the team announced Tuesday.
All 16 prospects will be recognized at Futures Night on Sept. 29 atKauffman Stadium.
The honorees:

OMAHA (AAA)

Player of the year: Frank Schwindel, IF, 25.
He set career highs in doubles (43), home runs (23) and RBIs (97) in 133 games between Double-A Northwest Arkansas and Omaha, leading Royals farmhands in doubles and RBIs.
His 43 doubles also ranked tied for second in all of minor league baseball.
He recorded a hit in 47 of his last 50 games, including three double-digit-game streaks, the longest of which lasted a team-high-tying 18 games from July 15-Aug;.
Schwindel was selected in the 18th round of the 2013 draft.
Pitcher of the year:Jakob Junis, RHP, 25.
Junis previously was named pitcher of the year with Northwest Arkansas in 2016.
He went 3-5 with a 2.92 ERA in 12 starts, recording 86 strikeouts and just 15 walks.
He matched a career high with 12 strikeouts in 7.0 innings May 26 at Nashville, tying the Omaha record (since 1998).
He made his major league debut April 12 vs. Oakland.
In 31 appearances (27 starts) between both levels, hes 11-8 with a 3.75 ERA, including eight big-league wins.
Junis was the Royals 29th-round pick in 2011.
NORTHWEST ARKANSAS (AA)

Player of the year:Donnie Dewees, OF, 23.
He hit .272 with 24 doubles and a career-high nine home runs in 126 games, and ranked tied for third among Texas League players in triples (six), sixth in stolen bases (20) and ninth in runs (67).
He played 107 games in center field (104 starts), second most in the league, and made just two errors in 340 chances (.994 fielding percentage).
Dewees was acquired via trade from the Chicago Cubs on February 8, 2017.
Pitcher of the year:Foster Griffin, LHP, 22.
He went 11-5 with a 3.61 ERA in 18 starts following a promotion from Wilmington and ranked tied for second in the Texas League in wins, despite not making his Double-A debut until May 30.
His 15 wins between both levels were the most by a Royals farmhand since Jake Odorizzi won 15 between Omaha and Northwest Arkansas in 2012.
He was named a Carolina League All-Star for his efforts prior to his promotion and was selected to the 2017 SiriusXM All-Star Futures Game in Miami.
Griffin was the Royals first-round pick (28th overall) in 2014.
WILMINGTON (A+)

Player of the year:Nicky Lopez, SS, 22.
He hit .295 with a .376 on-base percentage in 70 games before his promotion to Northwest Arkansas on June 26.
He was named a Carolina League midseason All-Star after being named an Appalachian League postseason All-Star in 2016.
Lopez was selected in the fifth round of the 2016 draft.
Pitcher of the year:Richard Lovelady, LHP, 22.
He went 1-0 with seven saves, a 1.08 ERA and 41 strikeouts to just four walks in 21 appearances, earning Carolina League All-Star honors before his promotion to Northwest Arkansas on June 26.
His 1.62 ERA between both levels ranked first among Royals farmhands (minimum 60.0 innings pitched) and his 10 saves ranked second.
Lovelady was selected in the 10th round in2016.
LEXINGTON (A)

Player of the year:Emmanuel Rivera, 3B, 21.
He hit .310/.364/.468 to lead the South Atlantic League in batting average and hits, and ranked fifth in on-base percentage and slugging percentage.
His 27 doubles, 12 home runs and team-leading 72 RBIs marked career highs.
His career year earned him league postseason All-Star honors.
Rivera, a native of Puerto Rico, was the Royals 19th-round pick in2015.
Pitcher of the year:Jace Vines, RHP, 23.
He went 9-5 with a 3.42 ERA in 19 appearances (14 starts), earning South Atlantic League midseason All-Star honors before his promotion to Wilmington on Aug. 28.
He recorded a scoreless streak of 25 innings that began April 17 and extended through the third inning of his start May 14.
In 27 outings (22 starts) overall, his 12 wins ranked second among Royals minor leaguers.
Vines was a fourth-round pick in the 2016 draft.
IDAHO FALLS (R)

Player of the year:Robby Rinn, 1B, 24.
He hit .355/.429/.511 with 30 extra-base hits and 59 RBIs in 69 games for the Chukars and ranked among the Pioneer League leaders in hits (first), doubles (22, first), runs (58, tied for second) and RBIs (tied for third).
He had a 21-game hitting streak from July 29-Aug. 27, one shy of the Pioneer Leagues longest this season.
His efforts earned him both midseason and postseason All-Star honors.
Rinn was the Royals 25th-round pick in 2016.
Pitcher of the year:Janser Lara, RHP, 21.
In his first season stateside, he went 4-2 with a 4.13 ERA and 57 strikeouts in 12 appearances (10 starts), earning Pioneer League midseason All-Star honors.
Lara was signed as a non-drafted free agent out of the Dominican Republic on July 3, 2015.
BURLINGTON (R)

Player of the year:Michael Gigliotti, OF, 21.
He hit .329/.442/.477 in 42 games and ranked among Appalachian League leaders in on-base percentage (third), stolen bases (15, third), walks (32, third) and batting average (sixth) despite being promoted to Lexington on Aug. 9.
The first-year player was named to the Appalachian League postseason All-Star team.
Gigliotti was the Royals fourth-round pick in the 2017 Draft.
Pitcher of the year:Sal Biasi, RHP, 21.
After starting his season with four appearances for Surprise, he went 3-2 with a 2.44 ERA and .186 opponents average in nine outings (seven starts) with Burlington.
Biasi was selected in the 11th round of the 2017 draft.
SURPRISE (R)

Player of the year:Nick Pratto, 1B, 18.
He hit .247 with 22 extra-base hits and 34 RBIs in 52 games and ranked first among Arizona League players with five sacrifice flies.
The first-year player had a 16-game on-base streak from July 22-Aug. 13 in which he had a .380 on-base percentage.
Pratto was the Royals first-round pick (14th overall) in the 2017 draft.
Pitcher of the year:Charlie Neuweiler, RHP, 18.
He went 3-3 with a 1.76 ERA and .192 opponents average in 12 appearances (five starts) and would have led the Arizona League in ERA but fell fourinnings shy of qualifying.
Neuweiler was selected in the fifth round of the 2017 draft.
DOMINICAN (R)

Player of the year:Rubendy Jaquez, IF, 18.
He hit .267 with a .362 on-base percentage and led the team in games (62), at-bats, stolen bases (19) and total bases (71).
He made starts at first base (20) and second base (39), committing just four errors in 371 chances (.989 fielding percentage).
Jaquez was signed as a non-drafted free agent out of the Dominican Republic on Sept. 7, 2015.
Pitcher of the year: Delvin Capellan, RHP, 18.
The first-year player went 3-2 with a 0.48 ERA and 48 strikeouts to just three walks in 12 starts and finished the season with a 27-inning scoreless streak.
In the 49-year history of the Royals organization, his ERA was the best single-season mark among farmhands (minimum 50 innings pitched).
Capellan signed as a non-drafted free agent out of the Dominican Republic on July 6, 2016.
MIAMI HEAT PRESS RELEASE

MIAMI -- The Miami HEAT announced that it will host its HEAT Red, White & Pink Game presented by Miami Cancer Institute at Baptist Health South Florida -- an open scrimmage that will include the current 2017-18 roster -- on Saturday, September 30th beginning at 11:00 a.m.
The game will take place at Florida Atlantic University, where the team will host its weeklong training camp.
Doors to FAU Arena will open at 10:00 a.m.

Miami Heat on FOX Sports Sun

The event is open to the public and tickets are available via the Miami HEAT App, Ticketmaster.com or the Ticketmaster App.
Tickets cost $1.00 each with proceeds benefitting Miami Cancer Institute.
Additionally, there is an eight-ticket maximum per transaction.
Tickets will go on sale today, September 26th, at 10:00 a.m.
Parking is complimentary.
The Red, White & Pink Game will resemble a regular NBA game with four quarters and a halftime, and will also feature many elements of the HEAT Experience performances by the Miami HEAT Dancers, Burnie and the Xtreme Team.
HEAT fans will get a close-up look at the 2017-18 Miami HEAT team.
The team has incorporated the color pink into the scrimmage for the fourth consecutive year in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
HEAT players will be wearing a special edition Red, White & Pink jersey.
For more information on the Red, White & Pink Game, please visit HEAT.com.
About Miami Cancer Institute at Baptist Health South Florida

Miami Cancer Institute offers comprehensive cancer services and is expanding its clinical services, clinical trials and state-of-the-art technology, including offering the first protontherapy treatment in South Florida, Latin America and the Caribbean.
The Cancer Institute, designed to be aworld-class clinical center and research facility, will move into its new spectacular facility in 2016.
Miami Cancer Institute is part of Baptist Health South Florida, the largest healthcare organization in the region, with seven hospitals (Baptist Hospital, Baptist Childrens Hospital, Doctors Hospital, Homestead Hospital, Mariners Hospital, South Miami Hospital and West Kendall Baptist Hospital) and nearly 50 outpatient and urgent care facilities spanning three counties.
The not-for-profit, faith-based Baptist Health has more than 16,000 employees and 2,200 affiliated physicians and also includes Baptist Outpatient Services and internationally renowned centers of excellence.
Baptist Health Foundation, the organizations fundraising arm, supports services at all hospitals and facilities.
Baptist Health is listed by Fortune magazine as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in America (#23 in the nation) and has remained on the list for 15 years.
It was also recognized as one of the Worlds Most Ethical Companies for the fourth year in a row by the Ethisphere Institute.
Visit BaptistHealth.net.
The Green Bay Packers' injury woes keep piling up.
The Packers signed tackle Ulrick John off the Arizona Cardinals' practice squad Tuesday and placed fellow tackle Kyle Murphy on injured reserve.
Murphy has started three games this year in place of Bryan Bulaga and David Bakhtiari, appearing at left tackle in the season opener and right tackle in Week 2 and Week 3.
A seventh-round pick of the Indianapolis Colts in 2014, John spent his rookie season on IR after suffering an ankle injury, before joining the Miami Dolphins midway through the 2015 season.
John was signed off the Dolphins' practice squad by the Dolphins in 2016, before landing back on the Cardinals' practice squad to start the 2017 season.
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) -- The Buccaneers are disappointed and hurting, with linebacker Lavonte David, defensive tackle Gerald McCoy and pass rusher Noah Spence among key players nursing injuries following the team's first loss of the season.
David left Sunday's 34-17 defeat at Minnesota with what initially was believed to be a high left ankle sprain that could have sidelined him for at least a month, however coach Dirk Koetter seemed optimistic Monday that the injury is not as severe as originally feared.
More Tampa Bay Buccaneers news

"I think you're jumping the gun a little bit on Lavonte.
It's not as bad as it looked, No.
1 -- and it looked bad," Koetter said.
"X-rays were negative.
We don't know exactly what it is yet, but knock on wood it's not as bad as it looked or as was previously reported."
McCoy aggravated a right ankle injury suffered the previous week against Chicago.
Spence, a second-year pro who has Tampa Bay's only sack through two games, dislocated the same shoulder he had a problem with last season.
Defensive end Robert Ayers and cornerbacks Vernon Hargreaves III and Ryan Smith also missed portions of the loss to the Vikings, which means an already lengthy injury report figures to be even longer Wednesday, when the Bucs begin preparation for this week's game against the New York Giants.
Koetter rarely discusses specifics about injuries, but did say he's hopeful some players already on the report are close to returning.
Three defensive starters -- linebacker Kwon Alexander (hamstring), tackle Chris Baker (flu) and cornerback Brent Grimes (shoulder) -- were inactive against Minnesota.
With Grimes out and Tampa Bay's front four unable to generate much of a pass rush, Case Keenum filled in for an injured Sam Bradford and threw for a career-best 369 yards and three touchdowns without an interception for Minnesota.
"Every team has injuries and we are no different," said Koetter, whose team's entering a stretch in which it'll play two home games in five days against the Giants and New England Patriots.
"When you have weaknesses in certain positions, it's our job as coaches to try to cover up those weaknesses (and) try to play to our strengths," Koetter said.
"Minnesota did a good job of attacking us and we have to lick our wounds, learn our lessons and move forward."
107

View Gallery





Reinhold Matay-USA TODAY Sports | Reinhold Matay
Are the Rams one of the Top 10 teams in the NFL?
Colin Cowherd says yes during his weekly segment Tuesday on 'The Herd'.
'The Herd' has the Rams at No.
9, highlighting their yards per play(almost 7) is No.
3 in the league.
"The Rams, easily, have the most talent in their division," Cowherd said.
Other notes from 'The Herd':

'Jared Goff has a left tackle, weapons, an offensive coach who gets it..
He's third (actually fifth) in passer rating (118.8).'
The Rams are also tied for third-most sacks in the NFC with 10.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
-- The Kansas City Chiefs have placed kicker Cairo Santos on injured reserve and claimed rookie kicker Harrison Butker off the Carolina Panthers' practice squad.
The moves were made Tuesday.
The Chiefs did not say whether Santos would be designated to return his season.
He would need to remain on IR for at least six weeks, then have two weeks to return to the roster.
Santos was hit on a field goal attempt in Sunday's victory over the Chargers, drawing a personal foul penalty, but coach Andy Reid did not mention him among the injuries after the game.
Santos also missed time in training camp with a groin injury.
Butker, who finished his college career as Georgia Tech's career scoring leader, will have an extra day to get up to speed.
Kansas City plays the Redskins on Monday night.
77

View Gallery





Aaron Doster-USA TODAY Sports | Aaron Doster
Streaming live on FOX Sports GO

PHOENIX -- D-backs manager Torey Lovullo gave most of his regulars a day off on Monday in the wake of their clinching home-field for the National League wild-card game, but he said that will be the exception as the team points to the postseason.
The Giants defeated the D-backs make-shift lineup 9-2 on Monday, but Arizona mainstays Paul Goldschmidt, J.D.
Martinez, A.J.
Pollock, Jake Lamb and David Peralta will play most if not all of the final five regular-season games, Lovullo said.
"It is my thought not to take anything for granted or ho-hum our way through the next several games, because no team is good enough to just turn that switch on and be ready for such an important game," Lovullo said.
"It's going to be a dress rehearsal for the most important game of the year."
The rotation will be tweaked for the final five games, however, as Lovullo tries to best position ace Zack Greinke for his start in the Oct. 4 wild-card game.
Greinke had been scheduled to start Wednesday in the finale against San Francisco, but Lovullo said Monday night that the ace would not make that start.
If Greinke started the Wednesday game, he would have six days of rest before the Oct. 4 wild-card game.
He has made one start on six days' rest this season, an 8-4 loss at Colorado on June 20 in which he gave up four runs in 7 1/3 innings.
The Rockies are the Diamondbacks' most likely wild-card opponent.
So it now appears almost certain that Greinke will start the opener of the final three-game series in Kansas City on Friday, a move that would put Greinke on normal four days' rest for the wild-card game.
He is 8-3 with a 3.01 ERA in 14 starts on four days' rest.
He is 9-2 with a 3.06 ERA in 14 starts on five days' rest, but that choice is not available because the Diamondbacks do not play Thursday.
"(Greinke) might be the most important piece in this, but we have four other pitchers we have to talk to and walk through certain things with," Lovullo said.
"We are trying to do our absolute best to win (the wild-card) game.
"We want to make sure that Zack is in the right place, and we are going to get a lot of input from him.
Zack is very good at expressing himself accurately.
He knows exactly how he is feeling and exactly where he wants to get to.
We would be fools if we didn't rely on his input."
Arizona left-hander Robbie Ray (14-5, 2.95 ERA) is set to face Giants left-hander Matt Moore (6-14, 5.20) on Tuesday.
Ray is 5-0 with a 2.45 ERA in his past six starts since missing 26 days with a concussion.
He is 2-0 with a 1.86 ERA in three starts against the Giants this season, with 24 strikeouts in 19 1/3 innings.
He is 3-1 with a 2.83 in seven starts against San Francisco in his career.
Moore is coming off his best outing of the season, when he threw six shutout innings in a 4-0 victory over Colorado last Thursday.
He gave up six hits, struck out six and walked two in his first scoreless outing of the season.
Moore is 1-1 with a 2.70 ERA in two starts against Arizona this season -- his only career appearances against the Diamondbacks.
Minnesota Twins fans have been waiting for Byron Buxton to have a breakout season.
This season, Buxton has done just that -- and then some.
Buxton is having one of the best seasons this century for any Minnesota player and one of the best for a Twins center fielder in franchise history.
Entering Tuesday's game, the 23-year-old has a slash line of .253/.316/.419 with 16 home runs, 68 runs, 50 RBI and 27 steals (with just one time caught) in 136 games.
He's also flashed his leather with several spectacular catches while leading the league in range factor and total zone runs for all outfielders.
Since 1998, Buxton will be just the sixth Twins player to post a Wins Above Replacement (WAR) of 5.0 or better, and just the third outfielder, joining Jacque Jones (2002) and Denard Span (2012).
(Note: you can learn more about baseball-reference's WAR here.)
PLAYER YEAR WAR Corey Koskie 2001 6.3 Jacque Jones 2002 5.4 Joe Mauer 2006 5.8 Joe Mauer 2008 5.6 Joe Mauer 2009 7.8 Joe Mauer 2010 5.9 Denard Span 2012 5.0 Brian Dozier 2014 5.2 Brian Dozier 2016 6.5 Byron Buxton 2017 5.1

When it comes to center fielders, only two have had better seasons in Minnesota history than Buxton.
Kirby Puckett had three seasons with a WAR of 5.7 or better while in 1977 Lyman Bostock had a 5.8 WAR.
PLAYER YEAR WAR Kirby Puckett 1988 7.7 Kirby Puckett 1992 7.1 Lyman Bostock 1977 5.8 Kirby Puckett 1986 5.7 Byron Buxton 2017 5.1 Denard Span 2012 5.0

When it comes to defense, Buxton is proving himself to be among the game's best.
Only one player has a better dWAR than the Twins center fielder's 2.8 this season -- Angels shortstop Andrelton Simmons -- while Reds catcher Tucker Barnhart also has a 2.8.
Only Tampa Bay's Kevin Kiermaier and Boston's Mookie Betts, both outfielders, have a dWAR of 2.5 or higher this season, both at 2.6 as we enter baseball's final week of the regular season.
As far as Twins players, only four have had better dWARs than Buxton in franchise history, and he still has a few games to move up the list.
Of the eight players in franchise history to post a dWAR of 2.5 or greater, only two -- Buxton and Puckett -- were outfielders.
PLAYER YEAR dWAR Kirby Puckett 1984 3.2 Zoilo Versailles 1965 3.0 Greg Gagne 1990 2.9 Leo Cardenas 1969 2.9 Byron Buxton 2017 2.8 Greg Gagne 1987 2.7 Butch Wynegar 1979 2.7 Gary Gaetti 1984 2.5

And, we repeat he's only 23.
Will be fun to see what he can do for an encore in 2018.
Dave Heller is the author of Ken Williams: A Slugger in Ruth's Shadow, Facing Ted Williams -- Players From the Golden Age of Baseball Recall the Greatest Hitter Who Ever Lived and As Good As It Got: The 1944 St. Louis Browns
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- The road doesn't get any easier for Florida State after its worst start in 28 years.
The 0-2 Seminoles' next four games are against teams with a combined record of 13-1.
That stretch starts on Saturday on the road against Wake Forest (4-0).
Coach Jimbo Fisher is hoping that history can repeat itself: The last time the Seminoles got off to an 0-2 start, they didn't lose again and finished 10-2 in 1989.
Fisher, whose team is unranked for the first time since 2011, said during his Monday news conference that he still likes the makeup of his team.
His players, though, were more direct in assessing the upcoming task at hand.
More Florida State Seminoles news

"We need to make a statement in order to show everyone that we're not just some scrub team," guard Cole Minshew said.
The Seminoles' recent struggles have garnered more attention after last Saturday's 27-21 loss to North Carolina State.
Since winning 33 of 34 games from 2013 to 2015, Florida State is 14-8 in its last 22 -- with two of those wins against Football Championship Subdivision schools -- and 7-6 in Atlantic Coast Conference games.
"I don't think it's anything that Jimbo has done differently," Minshew said.
"It's us as players, maybe we're not executing as those other guys were or we don't take to coaching as well or something.
I don't know."
If the Seminoles are going to bounce back, they need to quickly make adjustments on both sides of the ball.
The offense has scored only two touchdowns and has struggled in the red zone.
Fisher was happy with freshman quarterback James Blackman's first start (22 of 39 for 279 yards and a TD).
"He did some things I was really, really happy with," Fisher said.
"He did a lot of little detail things, was accurate, and gave us a chance to be successful in the game."
The passing game could face a new challenge with wide receiver Auden Tate questionable this week.
Tate injured his shoulder in the second half of last Saturday's game.
The running game has also not been able to get in sync as the Seminoles have played mostly from behind.
Defensively, the Seminoles haven't been able to generate much of a pass rush, with only three sacks in two games.
They also couldn't get off the field against N.C. State as the Wolfpack was 5 of 12 on third-down conversions.
"I think we've got to get started faster on defense a little bit better," Fisher said.
"Hopefully, we can shut guys down and not get behind in that area (third downs)."
FSU has been challenged the past two times against the Demon Deacons.
Two years ago, it needed a late interception to hold on for a 24-16 victory.
Last season, the Seminoles won 17-6 in a game in which both defenses played well.
FSU's next three games after Wake are against No.
14 Miami (2-0) on Oct. 7, at Duke (4-0) on Oct. 14 and hosting No.
17 Louisville (3-1) on Oct. 21.
"It's seemed like the last couple years we've started off slow, and we just hit our groove by midseason and played lights out," Minshew said.
"I think everyone needs to figure out that one thing that separates us from other teams toward the end of the season."
INDIANAPOLIS -- As Myles Turner strolled from camera to camera Monday, everything seemed different about the Indiana Pacers' media day.
Last year's feature attractions, Paul George and Jeff Teague, were long gone.
Larry Bird wasn't holding court.
Heck, Turner wasn't even posing inside Bankers Life Fieldhouse.
Yes, it's a clean slate for the completely overhauled Pacers.
"There's a different energy in this building," Turner said.
"The summer workouts have been great, but there's just a different energy now."
A lot of different names, too.
Since getting knocked out of the playoffs by LeBron James' team, again, Indiana has undergone a major rebuild -- one the new management team didn't even want to implement.
Initially, new president of basketball operations Kevin Pritchard wanted to go all in on making a deep playoff run this year in hopes of convincing George to stay with the team that drafted him.
But when George's camp leaked word publicly that the four-time All-Star and Olympic gold medalist had no intention of playing for the Pacers beyond 2017-18, Pritchard was out of options and had little leverage to get equal value in a trade.
Pritchard salvaged what he could by sending George to Oklahoma City for Victor Oladipo and Domantas Sabonis.
He picked up Cory Joseph in another trade and also signed free agents Bojan Bogdanovic and Darren Collison.
When the summer was over and the Pacers moved into their shiny new practice facility, only six guys remained from last season's roster and the 21-year-old Turner suddenly found himself playing a far more significant role.
"I think he didn't really have to be the man before, but now he's more confident and comfortable in leading his team," said forward Thaddeus Young, one of the holdovers.
"It seems like he wants to lead this team."
Turner does, though he's also content to share his new title with others.
118

View Gallery





Aaron Doster | Aaron Doster-USA TODAY Sports

He has a few players he can lean on.
Young and veteran center Al Jefferson have been around the league long enough to know what it takes to thrive under these circumstances, and Joseph comes over from the Toronto Raptors, an Eastern Conference contender each of the past two seasons.
Lance Stephenson is back in the sixth-man role after bouncing around the league the last two seasons.
And Oladipo returns to the state where he went from being a fan favorite in college to being the No.
2 pick in the NBA draft in just three years.
Hoosiers fans remember how he helped revive Indiana's program, and after three seasons of steady progression, Oladipo appears primed for a breakout season that could keep the Pacers in the postseason picture.
"Vic's explosive.
I didn't really realize how athletic he is," Turner said.
"I'm looking forward to seeing him in transition and beating guys off the dribble."
Pritchard had other needs on his wish list, too.
He wanted the team to get younger, faster and more athletic.
He wanted to get better defensively.
And while he wanted the playoffs still to be attainable, he needed some foundational pieces for long-term success.
So he kept plugging away to find options for coach Nate McMillan, who must put the pieces together before Indiana's season opener Oct. 18 against Brooklyn.
Everyone wants to know how much else will look different that night.
Not even McMillan can answer that right now.
But one thing that won't change is the goal.
"For the most part, I think I know these guys.
So it won't be that different.
We just have to get them out there," McMillan said.
"But we're in the business of winning, and that's what we're focusing on.
There's a lot of uncertainty with our group, with our style and all that.
But we're in the business of winning."
Turner couldn't imagine it starting any other way.
"I think this is a good team, I know this is a good team and we have the versatility to do it (get to the playoffs)," he said.
"What I loved about Paul was his work ethic.
He gets his work in after practice, before practice, and you guys don't always see that.
What I learned from him is you have to set the example."
WASHINGTON (AP) -- President Donald Trump is up and tweeting, and his target is the NFL.
Trump says "ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected."
He also says that booing at the Dallas game Monday night when the team dropped to its knees was the "loudest I have ever heard."
Following a weekend of kneeling and protesting across the NFL, the Cowboys and their owner displayed their own version of unity Monday night by kneeling on the field before rising as a group before the playing of the national anthem.
Trump noted in this tweets that the team stood for the anthem: "Big progress being made- we all love our country."
NFL players and owners are finally unified.
President Donald Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem did more to bring players and owners together than any marriage counselor could ever accomplish.
More than 200 players sat, knelt or raised their fists in defiance during Sunday's games and many team owners joined them on the field in a show of unity after sports and politics were mixed together.
They stood together, arms locked in many cases, and expressed support for players who protest social issues.
Just don't mistake unity for harmony.
Once this issue stops trending, players and owners will be back at odds again.
When the collective bargaining agreement expires in 2021, things can get real ugly between players and owners.
Here are more overreactions following Week 3:

-- --

OVERREACTION: The Jaguars are for real.
REALISTIC REACTION: Or the Ravens just aren't that good.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Jared Goff is proving he was the best quarterback in the 2016 draft.
REALISTIC REACTION: Can't ignore 2016.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Odell Beckham Jr. will have more celebration penalties than the Giants will have wins.
REALISTIC REACTION: This will be a close race.
-- --

OVERREACTION: The Vikings have a quarterback controversy.
REALISTIC REACTION: Don't get caught up in Case Keenum's performance against Tampa Bay and forget what Sam Bradford did Week 1.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Rookie Jake Elliott guaranteed himself a job the rest of the season with a 61-yard game-winning field goal.
REALISTIC REACTION: He's not a lock to stay with the Eagles when Caleb Sturgis returns from injury.
-- --

OVERREACTION: The Seahawks are in trouble.
REALISTIC REACTION: They can't fall out of contention in the NFC West.
-- --

OVERREACTION: The Jets are the best team in New York.
REALISTIC REACTION: Standings don't always tell the truth.
The Giants are still more talented.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Jay Cutler should've stayed retired.
REALISTIC REACTION: The offensive line is so bad coach Adam Gase called it "garbage."
-- --

OVERREACTION: The Falcons are going back to the Super Bowl.
REALISTIC REACTION: They're a couple plays away from 1-2 instead of 3-0.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Tom Brady won't let the Patriots lose another game.
REALISTIC REACTION: Even the G.O.A.T needs more help.
-- --

OVERREACTION: Smash-mouth football is back thanks to the Titans.
REALISTIC REACTION: It's a pass-first league.
-- --

OVERREACTION: The Raiders were exposed on national television by the Redskins.
REALISTIC REACTION: Oakland deserves a mulligan for a nonconference loss on the East Coast.
A well-rested Vikings defense is an effective Vikings defense

That's the message emerging via three weeks' worth of data, after the Minnesota Vikings' defense racked up three turnovers in a 34-17 win over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
More Vikings coverage

Their defense was on the field for just 53 snaps Sunday after playing 74 snaps in a Week 2 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers and 62 snaps in the season opener.
The offense played their part well -- they were on the field for a season-high 74 snaps -- but the defense came through in critical situations, holding Tampa Bay to just one third-down conversion on six attempts.
Andrew Sendejo, Harrison Smith and Trae Waynes intercepted quarterback Jameis Winston, whose Buccaneers spent much of the game playing from behind.
Of the group, Smith and Sendejo are the stalwarts, and appeared on all of the Vikings' defensive snaps for a third consecutive week.
Other notes from Sundays snap counts:

-- Latavius Murray remains a nonfactor through the first three games of the season.
He was on the field for just eight snaps in Week 3, finishing with just two carries for five yards.
-- Dalvin Cook continued to see heavy usage, appearing on 53 percent of offensive snaps this week and carrying the ball a career-high 27 times.
-- Cook's workload remains among the league's largest.
Only Todd Gurley (Los Angeles Rams, Week 3) and Jay Ajayi (Miami Dolphins, Week 2) have logged more carries in a single game this season.
-- Fullback C.J.
Ham continues to carve out a niche for himself, and logged a season-high 30 percent of the offensive snaps.
-- The Buccaneers took to the air for much of the game but were ineffective on the ground when they tried to run, carrying the ball a combined nine times for just 26 yards.
GAME 3: BUCS (OFFENSE)

PLAYER Plays (74) % Reiff 74 100% Remmers 74 100% Easton 74 100% Elflein 74 100% Keenum 74 100% Berger 72 97% Rudolph 68 92% Thielen 63 85% Cook 54 73% Diggs 52 70% Treadwell 31 42% Morgan 30 41% Ham 22 30% Wright 18 24% McKinnon 14 19% Bell 10 14% Murray 8 11% Sirles 2 3%

GAME 3: BUCS (DEFENSE)
ST. LOUIS -- Clinching day is finally here for the Chicago Cubs.
After a rocky start to 2017, theyre on the verge of something special once again.
It has become the norm on the North Side of Chicago, though being pushed by the Milwaukee Brewers and St. Louis Cardinals meant this day wasn't a certainty.
The Cubs still need either to win one more game or the Brewers to lose one, but a return to the postseason is all but assured.
FiveThirtyEight.com says the Cubs have a 99 percent chance of going to the playoffs.
In that vein, heres what you need to know about the Cubs and their attempt to clinch a second consecutive National League Central Division title and third straight postseason appearance when they take on the Cardinals on Tuesday night (8 p.m.
ET on ESPN/WatchESPN):
Now that the superstar duo is back together, we take a look at the bond between LeBron James and Dwyane Wade that brought Miami back-to-back championships.
(1:44)

Twelve-time NBA All-Star guard Dwyane Wade plans to sign with the Cleveland Cavaliers once he clears waivers on Wednesday, league sources told ESPN.
Wade, who agreed to a contract buyout with the Chicago Bulls on Sunday, will be an unrestricted free agent and sign a one-year, $2.3 million veterans minimum deal to reunite with LeBron James, league sources said.
Wade's relationship with James, cemented over four seasons and two NBA titles together with the Miami Heat, pushed the Cavaliers past the Oklahoma City Thunder, San Antonio Spurs and Miami in pursuit of Wade.
Wade, a three-time NBA champion and MVP of the 2006 NBA Finals, joins a formidable Cavaliers roster with James, Kevin Love, JR Smith and Tristan Thompson.
The Cavs will be without injured All-Star point guard Isaiah Thomas until at least January.
Dwyane Wade plans to reunite with LeBron James for the 2017-18 season, hoping to rekindle the championship chemistry they had with the Heat.
David Sherman/NBAE/Getty Images

The team will initially cut a non-guaranteed training camp invitee to make room for Wade on the 20-man training camp roster, a Cavs source told ESPN.
They will need to make an additional move beyond that to make space for him on the 15-man regular-season roster.
Cavaliers coach Tyronn Lue said it will be a challenge with all the new players added to the Cavaliers' roster this offseason, but he and his players are up for it.
"Anytime you get new pieces and new players, it's always challenging, but I'm up for the challenge, and so are the players," he said.
"We will figure it out.
It will be a good year for us."
Thompson said he expects Wade will fit in well with the Cavaliers' roster.
"He's pretty familiar with most of the guys on our team, whether playing against or playing with," he said.
"I think he's going to jell pretty well.
He's a veteran.
He's always been a good locker room guy.
We've never heard anything bad.
"It would be great for our team to have another championship-mentality player on our team.
It's just more pieces to the puzzle."
Wade averaged 18 points for the Bulls last season.
In 14 seasons, he has averaged 23.3 points, 5.7 assists and 4.8 rebounds a game.
Wade, 35, gave back $8 million of his $23.8 million 2017-18 salary to reach a buyout agreement with the Bulls, league sources said.
ESPN's Dave McMenamin contributed to this report.
Joon H. Kim, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, details the corruption and bribery charges brought by the FBI against multiple people, including NCAA assistant basketball coaches.
(2:04)

Four assistant basketball coaches from Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and Southern California were charged Tuesday morning in a federal corruption investigation, and that might be only the tip of the iceberg in a three-year FBI probe that focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars to steer NBA-bound players toward sports agents, financial advisers and apparel companies.
Federal prosecutors in New York announced charges of fraud and corruption against 10 people, including Auburn's Chuck Person, Oklahoma State's Lamont Evans, Arizona's Emanuel "Book" Richardson and USC's Tony Bland.
Each of the coaches is charged with bribery conspiracy, solicitation of bribes, honest services fraud conspiracy, honest service fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and Travel Act conspiracy.
The U.S. Department of Justice said each of the coaches faces a maximum sentence of 80 years in prison.
Person was released on $25,000 bail.
Bland appeared in a Florida court, did not enter a plea and said he needs a lawyer.
Prosecutors recommended Bland be released on $100,000 bail with the understanding he must appear Oct. 10 in federal court in New York for another hearing.
Richardson appeared in U.S. District Court in Tucson, Arizona, and was released on a $50,000 bond.
Editor's Picks What you need to know about the FBI's NCAA basketball investigation Federal prosecutors stunned college basketball by announcing charges for four Division I coaches.
Although the charges stem from a three-year investigation, much is still to be determined.
Here's what you need to know.
The FBI also arrested James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for Adidas; Merl Code, another Adidas employee; Christian Dawkins, a former NBA agent who was recently fired from ASM Sports; Munish Sood, a financial adviser; Jonathan Brad Augustine, president of The League Initiative and program director of the Adidas-sponsored 1 Family AAU program; and Rashan Michel, a former NBA official who founded Thompson Bespoke Clothing, a custom clothier for athletes.
The offices of ASM, which represents NBA players, were raided Tuesday, sources confirmed.
Phone lines have been cut off and employees were told not to come to work.
"For the 10 charged men, the madness of college basketball went well beyond the Big Dance in March," said Joon H. Kim, acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, during a Tuesday news conference.
"Month after month, the defendants exploited the hoop dreams of student-athletes around the country, allegedly treating them as little more than opportunities to enrich themselves through bribery and fraud schemes."
The FBI conducted an elaborate undercover operation, starting in 2015, and managed to keep it a secret.
The NCAA wasn't made aware of the investigation until Tuesday morning.
Using wiretaps, surveillance video, undercover agents and cooperating witnesses, the FBI was able to document coaches accepting bribes to steer their players to certain financial advisers and/or business managers.
In other cases, high-ranking Adidas employees worked with others to pay prospective student-athletes' families to ensure the players signed with Adidas-sponsored schools and then signed with Adidas once they turned pro, the complaint alleges.
FBI assistant director Bill Sweeney had a warning Tuesday for other coaches who might be involved in similar schemes, saying: "We have your playbook.
Our investigation is ongoing.
We are conducting additional interviews as we speak."
The FBI and U.S. Attorney's office said they have established a hotline for information related to the investigation.
Kim said the managers and financial advisers were "circling blue-chip prospects like coyotes" and that "employees of one of the world's largest sportswear companies [was] secretly funneling cash to the families of high school recruits."
Louis Martin "Marty" Blazer III, a former Pittsburgh financial adviser who was accused of stealing $2.35 million from five clients by the Securities and Exchange Commission, was the cooperating witness who helped the FBI in its investigation of the basketball coaches and other defendants, according to U.S. Department of Justice documents obtained by ESPN.
Blazer, who founded Blazer Capital Management, was accused of investing money into movies and entertainment ventures without his clients' knowledge between 2010 and 2012.
As part of his plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's office, Blazer agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud, aggravated identity theft, false statements and documents, and two counts of wire fraud, according to the Sept. 19 cooperation agreement.
Among other charges, Blazer was accused of "a scheme to commit wire fraud in or about 2000 through in or about 2013 by making payments and loans to NCAA athletes in order to induce the student-athletes to retain the defendant as a financial advisor and/or business manager."
The FBI complaint against Gatto and others also included a reference to a "public research university located in Kentucky," identified as "University-6" in the complaint, and University of Louisville interim president Gregory Postel confirmed in a statement it is the school mentioned.
There was also a reference to a private research school in Florida, and sources told ESPN it is the University of Miami.
The allegations against the unnamed school in Kentucky include payments of $100,000 from Adidas to the family of an unnamed player, identified as "Player-10," to ensure he signs with the school.
According to the complaint, Gatto, Code, Dawkins and Sood worked together to funnel $100,000 to the player's family in early June, and Dawkins told the others that he did so at the request of a Louisville coach.
"Player-10," who is described in the complaint as a top recruit, is believed to be Brian Bowen, a five-star guard/forward who signed with Louisville on June 5.
The FBI said telephone records show Gatto spoke directly with the unnamed coach multiple times in the days before the player publicly committed to play for the Cardinals.
The complaint said another high school player was paid to sign with the Cardinals, and Dawkins paid the money by funneling it through Augustine.
"These allegations come as a complete shock to me," Louisville coach Rick Pitino said in a statement.
"If true, I agree with the U.S.
Attorneys Office that these third-party schemes, initiated by a few bad actors, operated to commit a fraud on the impacted universities and their basketball programs, including the University of Louisville.
Our fans and supporters deserve better and I am committed to taking whatever steps are needed to ensure those responsible are held accountable."
The FBI alleged Gatto, Code, Dawkins and Augustine attempted to broker a deal to send another high school player to Miami, an Adidas-sponsored school, for $150,000.
According to the complaint, "the payments from [Adidas] to Player-12 were allegedly requested specifically by a coach at [Miami] (Coach-3), who allegedly called Gatto directly and who, according to Dawkins, Code, and Augustine, 'knows everything' and, in particular, 'knows something's gotta happen for' Player-12 to commit to attending University-7."
Person, a former Auburn basketball star, is accused of accepting $91,500 in bribes to steer two players toward a financial adviser.
He said he gave more than $18,000 to the players' families.
Person was suspended without pay, effective immediately, Auburn officials announced Tuesday afternoon.
"This morning's news is shocking.
We are saddened, angry and disappointed," the school said in a statement.
"We are committed to playing by the rules, and that's what we expect from our coaches.
In the meantime, Auburn is working closely with law enforcement, and we will help them in their investigation in any way we can."
Evans, the Oklahoma State assistant, is accused of soliciting $22,000 from Blazer and Sood to steer two of his players toward them.
Richardson was accused of accepting more than $20,000 from them, and Bland received about $13,000, according to the complaint.
Evans was suspended with pay.
Arizona said Richardson had been suspended immediately and relieved of all duties.
In a statement, the university said it was "appalled" by the allegations.
USC athletic director Lynn Swann said in a statement, "We were shocked to learn this morning through news reports about the FBI investigation and arrests related to NCAA basketball programs, including the arrest of USC assistant coach Tony Bland.
USC Athletics maintains the highest standards in athletic compliance across all of our programs and does not tolerate misconduct in any way.
We will fully cooperate with the investigation and will assist authorities as needed, and if these allegations are true, we will take the needed action."
Bland was placed on immediate administrative leave, USC said.
Later on Tuesday afternoon, USC vice president for compliance Mike Blanton said in a statement that the university had hired former FBI director Louis J. Freeh to assist it in conducting an internal investigation into the matter.
Oklahoma State issued a statement Tuesday saying, "We were surprised to learn this morning of potential actions against one of our assistant basketball coaches by federal officials.
We are reviewing and investigating the allegations.
We are cooperating fully with officials.
Let it be clear we take very seriously the high standards of conduct expected in our athletic department.
We will not tolerate any deviation from those standards."
School officials who have spoken with ESPN's Jake Trotter say they didn't get advance warning of the arrests.
They found out through news reports.
The Oklahoma State coaching staff, including Evans and head coach Mike Boynton, have been on the road recruiting but were called back to Stillwater.
Athletic director Mike Holder, who was attending the Big 12 meetings in Washington, is also returning to the school.
"The nature of the charges brought by the federal government are deeply disturbing," NCAA president Mark Emmert said in a statement.
"We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
We learned of these charges this morning and of course will support the ongoing criminal federal investigation."
In a statement Tuesday, Adidas said it was unaware whether Gatto was allegedly arranging to pay high school players.
"Today, we became aware that federal investigators arrested an adidas employee," the company said.
"We are learning more about the situation.
We're unaware of any misconduct and will fully cooperate with authorities to understand more."
Person, 53, is Auburn's associate head coach; he joined the staff in April 2014.
Person averaged 18.3 points per game in four seasons at Auburn and was the NBA Rookie of the Year for the Indiana Pacers in 1987.
He played for five NBA teams over 13 seasons.
Evans joined the Oklahoma State staff last season and was promoted to associate head coach and recruiting coordinator for the upcoming season.
He coached previously at South Carolina and Kansas State.
He averaged 8.5 points as a senior for Drake in 2000-01.
Richardson joined the staff at Arizona in the spring of 2009.
He played at the University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown.
Bland, an associate head coach, joined the USC staff in 2013-14.
He played for Syracuse and San Diego State.
Information from ESPN's Jeff Borzello, Myron Medcalf and The Associated Press was used in this report.
Men's basketball coach Rick Pitino expressed "complete shock" that Louisville is involved in the federal investigation into fraud and corruption in recruiting.
Interim university president Gregory Postel announced Tuesday that Louisville had been notified of its part in the federal investigation.
Editor's Picks Rick Pitino could be staring at his final days as coach He has been through a sex scandal in which a mistress went to jail for extortion.
He made it through strippers in dorm rooms partying with players and recruits.
Now, with the FBI at the door, it will be difficult for Rick Pitino to escape this scandal.
NCAA coaches among 10 facing federal charges Federal prosecutors have announced charges of fraud and corruption in college basketball.
Among those arrested and charged are four assistant coaches at Auburn, Arizona, Oklahoma State and USC.
Vaccaro: I hired Adidas exec in federal probe Sonny Vaccaro says he hired Adidas executive Jimmy Gatto and that Gatto's arrest Tuesday as part of a federal corruption investigation left him stunned.
2 Related

"These allegations come as a complete shock to me," Pitino said in a prepared statement.
"If true, I agree with the U.S.
Attorneys Office that these third-party schemes, initiated by a few bad actors, operated to commit a fraud on the impacted universities and their basketball programs, including the University of Louisville.
Our fans and supporters deserve better and I am committed to taking whatever steps are needed to ensure those responsible are held accountable."
Earlier in the day, federal prosecutors in New York announced charges of fraud and corruption against 10 people involved in college basketball, including four assistant coaches -- Auburn's Chuck Person, Oklahoma State's Lamont Evans, Arizona's Emanuel "Book" Richardson and USC's Tony Bland.
The three-year FBI probe focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars to steer NBA-bound players toward sports agents, financial advisers and apparel companies.
Federal criminal complaints accuse at least one coach at a "public research university located in Kentucky" -- identified as Louisville -- of taking part in a scheme to funnel about $100,000 from Adidas company to an All-American high school player that the Cardinals were recruiting.
Louisville is currently on probation by the NCAA, and Pitino is facing a suspension by college's governing body following a sex scandal investigation.
On June 15, the NCAA suspended Pitino for five Atlantic Coast Conference games.
The university is appealing.
The NCAA also placed the basketball program on four years' probation, vacated wins in which ineligible players participated and issued a 10-year show-cause order for former basketball operations director Andre McGee.
Former escort Katina Powell alleged that McGee had hired her and other escorts to strip and have sex with Louisville recruits and players.
DirecTV is offering unprecedented refunds for fans who want to cancel their NFL Sunday Ticket package, if they inform the company that they are doing so due to the recent protests during the national anthem, a source confirmed.
Once the season starts, fans usually cannot cancel their subscriptions, but AT&T, which owns DirecTV, decided to change the policy due to the sensitivity of the issue.
The price of the package, which allows fans to get out-of-market games, is about $280.
Editor's Picks Rodgers wants fans to link arms during anthem Aaron Rodgers, encouraging Green Bay fans to join players in linking arms, says their actions are not a protest but about equality, and it appears all players will participate.
Panthers owner, captains discuss social issues Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson met with the team's captains Tuesday.
The Charlotte Observer reports the meeting was to address concerns that Richardson's stance on protest prevented players from taking part.
1 Related

An AT&T spokesperson declined to confirm the cancellation policy and said the company would have no numbers to share.
The exemption was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.
Roughly 180 players chose not to stand for the national anthem in Week 3, while three teams -- the Tennessee Titans, Pittsburgh Steelers and Seattle Seahawks -- did not come to the sideline for the anthem.
On Monday night, the Dallas Cowboys chose to kneel in unison before the anthem.
Players were emboldened after being challenged by President Donald Trump, who Friday night at a speech in Alabama, encouraged NFL owners to "fire" players who didn't stand for the national anthem.
The stance, which Trump continued to assert throughout the weekend, had the opposite effect.
Almost all of the league's owners responded with statements affirming the players' right to protest, as players and executives went as far as to coordinate their actions.
Not everyone was happy.
At some stadiums, fans booed the players.
Others took to Twitter to say they were canceling their Sunday Ticket subscriptions.
An NFL spokesman says ratings overall were up 3 percent for Week 3 compared with Week 3 of last year, thanks in large part to the competitive game on Monday Night Football involving the Dallas Cowboys.The increase also was due to the fact that last year's Monday Night Football game was competing against a presidential debate.
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Aaron Rodgers and his Green Bay Packers teammates want fans at Lambeau Field for Thursday night's game against the Chicago Bears to join them in linking arms during the national anthem.
Most of the Packers' players did that on the sideline before Sunday's game against the Cincinnati, though three players -- Martellus Bennett, Lance Kendricks and Kevin King -- sat on the bench.
Most of the Packers with their arms linked but Lance Kendricks, Martellus Bennett and Kevin King were seated.
Rob Demovsky, ESPN Staff Writer

Rodgers said it's not a protest.
"This is about equality," Rodgers said Tuesday.
"This is about unity and love and growing together as a society and starting a conversation around something that may be a little bit uncomfortable for people.
But we've got to come together and talk about these things and grow as a community, as a connected group of individuals in our society, and we're going to continue to show love and unity, and this week we're going to ask the fans to join in as well and come together and show people that we can be connected and we can grow together."
It sounds as if all the players -- even the ones who sat during the anthem on Sunday -- will participate after they held a meeting to discuss it.
"I think it was Marty's idea," said Kendricks, who sat he sat during the anthem to bring awareness to people in Puerto Rico affected by Hurricane Maria.
"Aaron spoke first and he kind of laid it out and laid out the fact that he's on our side and he understands the message being conveyed and trying to get across.
And then Marty wrote a statement and in the statement he said we're going to lock arms and he's going to challenge the fans to lock arms as well, so it kind of puts them in a position where it's like, 'Look you're either going to unite with us or you're not.'
I think that's really cool because it puts them in a position where it's like now we're talking to you, so you make a decision, peacefully make a decision."
Rodgers called the team meeting about it "fantastic."
"We kind of talked about a lot of things -- things I'm not going to talk about because it's meant for just the locker room -- but I think there's been a great sense of unity and love and support in this locker room, guys coming together," Rodgers said.
"Outside the building, I think the message has been diluted a little bit and it's been kind of taken away from what we were trying to do: show a united front, guys linking up together.
There's been a lot of hatred on my social media, probably other people's social media as well.
Frankly don't understand it, a lot of it."
Adam Schefter breaks down the consequences Odell Beckham Jr. will face after his touchdown celebration on Sunday.
(0:55)

New York Giants co-owner John Mara said Tuesday that he isn't happy about Odell Beckham Jr.'s touchdown celebration in which the wide receiver simulated a dog urinating.
Mara said the team would deal with the matter "internally."
Mara made his comments in an email sent to multiple media outlets.
Editor's Picks OBJ says dog TD celebration related to Trump A day after saying 'I'm a dog, so I acted like a dog' to explain his touchdown celebration where he simulated urinating on the field, Odell Beckham Jr. changed his tune on social media, now suggesting it was related to President Trump's comments.
Eagles to 'file away' memory of OBJ celebration The Eagles will "file away" Odell Beckham Jr.'s odd touchdown celebration on Sunday, said coach Doug Pederson, who called the Giants wide receiver's simulation of a dog urinating on the field "unfortunate."
1 Related

He wrote: "I do not want to get into a discussion about this, but I will say that I am very unhappy with Odell's behavior on Sunday and we intend to deal with it internally."
On Sunday against the Philadelphia Eagles, after his scoring his first touchdown of the season, Beckham pretended to walk like a dog after the score and simulated urinating on the field.
The Giants were penalized for Beckham's celebration.
He said after the Giants' 27-24 loss that he had no regrets.
"I'm a dog, so I acted like a dog.
I don't know if the rulebook said you can't hike your leg.
He said I peed on somebody, so I was trying to find the imaginary ghost that I peed on.
But I didn't see him," Beckham told reporters.
On Monday, he responded to a fan on Twitter who asked if the celebration was related to President Donald Trump's recent comments about NFL player protests, Beckham wrote:

If u seen that , I have to tip my hat to u for thinkin outside the box.
#URRIGHTONPOINT impressed  Odell Beckham Jr (@OBJ_3) September 25, 2017

Giants coach Ben McAdoo wasn't interested in discussing the celebration on Monday, other than expressing his displeasure that it cost the Giants yardage on the ensuing kickoff.
Eagles coach Doug Pederson called Beckham's celebration "unfortunate" and said it was something his team would "file away" for later.
The Giants and Eagles are scheduled to meet again on Dec. 17 in East Rutherford, New Jersey.
Quarterback Eli Manning said Tuesday that he didn't see the celebration and didn't know why the Giants were penalized.
He also didn't feel the need to talk with Beckham in the days after the incident.
But he said he understood the criticism.
"Hey, that is part of football," Manning said.
"You get penalized there are going to be people who are unhappy, whether it is the owner, the head coach or other players.
You can't afford penalties."
Beckham's unsportsmanlike conduct was one of 10 penalties committed by the Giants on Sunday.
Seven came in the fourth quarter.
Manning thinks they all need to do better, including Beckham.
"I want him to go out there and play hard.
It's part of being smart in all aspects of penalties," Manning said.
"I don't think unhappy is the word.
Just everyone has to be a little smarter in this situation where things are tough and we have to get wins and we have to grind and we're catching some bad breaks and things aren't going our way -- we can't afford to make it harder on ourselves."
ESPN's Jordan Raanan contributed to this report.
Darren Rovell sheds light on allegations that an unnamed men's basketball player received payments from Adidas to ensure he signed with a "public research university located in Kentucky."
(1:23)

During his time with Louisville, the Cardinals basketball coach Rick Pitino has survived multiple scandals.
In 2010, he testified in a federal extortion trial involving Karen Sypher, who went to prison after trying to get money and gifts from Pitino in exchange for silence.
Editor's Picks NCAA coaches among 10 facing federal charges Federal prosecutors have announced charges of fraud and corruption in college basketball.
Among those arrested and charged are four assistant coaches at Auburn, Arizona, Oklahoma State and USC.
What you need to know about the FBI's NCAA basketball investigation Federal prosecutors stunned college basketball by announcing charges for four Division I coaches.
Although the charges stem from a three-year investigation, much is still to be determined.
Here's what you need to know.
1 Related

In 2015, the NCAA launched an investigation into a sex-for-pay scandal organized by former Louisville assistant coach Andre McGee that could force the Cardinals to vacate their 2013 national title and dozens of victories.
For that, Pitino will serve a seven-game suspension this season.
This all came after the school, hoping to soothe the NCAA and temper the sanctions, self-imposed a 2016 NCAA tournament ban.
Despite all this, Pitino kept his job.
But what was revealed Tuesday, if true, seems insurmountable.
The FBI arrested four prominent college basketball assistants from Oklahoma State, Auburn, Arizona and USC following an investigation surrounding a corruption scandal.
Documents from the investigation cite an arrangement between an unnamed Louisville staffer, high-ranking Adidas official James Gatto and others to funnel $100,000 to the family of a recruit who committed to the university over the summer.
"Shortly after the agreement with the family of Player-10 was reached in late May and early June, Player-10 publicly committed to University-6," the documents from the FBI's investigation stated.
Louisville revealed Tuesday afternoon that it is the unnamed "University-6" named by the FBI.
"[Louisville] is committed to ethical behavior and adherence to NCAA rules," interim president Gregory Postel said in a statement addressing the FBI's investigation.
"Any violations will not be tolerated."
Pitino is not named in the federal documents.
But he's the sullied leader of a program in the FBI's crosshairs.
If the FBI's allegations are validated, Louisville has only one option: Remove Pitino and athletic director Tom Jurich.
Rick Pitino has had a successful -- but rocky -- career.
Is this latest scandal the one that ends his run?
AP Photo/Gerry Broome

Pitino is facing a federal organization that puts people in prison.
That's why his latest problem trumps the previous incidents tenfold.
"These allegations come as a complete shock to me," Pitino said in a statement Tuesday night.
"If true, I agree with the U.S.
Attorneys Office that these third-party schemes, initiated by a few bad actors, operated to commit a fraud on the impacted universities and their basketball programs, including the University of Louisville.
Our fans and supporters deserve better and I am committed to taking whatever steps are needed to ensure those responsible are held accountable.
But the FBI and the United States Department of Justice have come to clean up the sport and the mess made by Louisville and other programs.
Joon H. Kim, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, made it clear in his news conference that his office is coming for anyone attached to the pay-for-play scandal and will continue to pursue additional indictments.
"It's better for you to call us than for us to be calling you when we're ready to charge you," Kim warned.
FBI assistant director Bill Sweeney doubled down.
"We have your playbook," he said.
"Our investigation is ongoing.
We are conducting additional interviews as we speak."
Years from now, this day may go down as the most crippling moment in the sport's history.
What happened Tuesday, and what is likely to follow in the days ahead, could flatten college basketball.
Every team in America, including Louisville, is asking the same question: How do we distance ourselves from this?
Louisville's sex-for-pay scandal led to a fine, the loss of scholarships, a suspension for Pitino, a 10-year show-cause penalty for McGee, vacated wins and a self-imposed postseason ban.
Imagine what the FBI -- and the NCAA investigation that will follow -- will do to the program.
The result could change Louisville forever.
In the Sypher case, Pitino reacted as the victim of an extortion scheme.
Sypher ended up with a seven-year prison sentence.
In the pay-for-sex scandal, Pitino repeatedly told anyone who would listen he never knew McGee had arranged parties with strippers and escorts for Louisville's top recruits and players.
After each of those incidents, Louisville stuck with Pitino despite the damage to the school's reputation and the NCAA penalties -- and the possibility of more NCAA penalties.
His resume and stature in the sport helped him keep his job, too.
Pitino has won two national championships, reached seven Final Fours and won 770 games.
He's in the Hall of Fame.
If you just judge Pitino on his college accomplishments, only Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski has a more stellar resume among active coaches.
His history, and his personality, have convinced those in power and the fan base to stick with him.
This is about more than Louisville now.
This is potential prison time for those involved.
This is cash bribes, wiretaps and federal investigators, which were all used to uncover the major corruption.
This is a six-figure bribe allegedly arranged by multiple people to lure an elite prospect to Louisville.
The teams listed today might not recover for decades, if not longer.
The sport may never recover.
They don't care about Pitino's Final Fours and national titles.
And that might make this Pitino's last scandal.
Darren Rovell sheds light on allegations that an unnamed men's basketball player received payments from Adidas to ensure he signed with a "public research university located in Kentucky."
(1:23)

The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York announced federal corruption charges against four NCAA assistant basketball coaches on Tuesday.
The three-year FBI probe focused on coaches being paid tens of thousands of dollars to steer NBA-bound players toward sports agents, financial advisers and apparel companies.
Here's what we know regarding the federal probe into corruption and fraud in college basketball:

What are the charges?
As announced by U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim at a news conference on Tuesday, federal authorities have brought forth two distinct sets of allegations.
Under the first group of charges, the U.S. Attorney is alleging that assistant coaches at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and USC "took cash bribes" in order to steer elite basketball players toward certain financial advisors and sports agents.
The assistants named in the indictment are Chuck Person (Auburn), Emanuel Richardson (Arizona), Lamont Evans (Oklahoma State) and Tony Bland (USC).
USC assistant Tony Bland is one of the coaches involved in the U.S. Attorney's NCAA investigation.
Brian Rothmuller/Icon Sportswire

Each of the coaches is charged with bribery conspiracy, solicitation of bribes, honest services fraud conspiracy, honest service fraud, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and Travel Act conspiracy.
The U.S. Department of Justice said each of the coaches faces a maximum sentence of 80 years in prison.
In the second set of allegations, authorities say that James Gatto, on behalf of an unnamed "sportswear company," funneled "six-figure payments" to three players, who, in exchange, committed to play for particular college programs affiliated with the company.
Gatto is the director of global sports marketing for Adidas.
This set of charges includes a reference to a "public research university located in Kentucky."
University of Louisville interim president Gregory Postel confirmed in a statement that Louisville is the school mentioned.
Three of the four coaches were arrested Tuesday morning, along with James Gatto, director of global sports marketing for Adidas; Merl Code, another Adidas employee; Christian Dawkins, a former NBA agent; Munish Sood, a financial adviser; and two others.
Who is Marty Blazer?
In U.S. Department of Justice documents obtained by ESPN, Louis Martin "Marty" Blazer III is the witness who cooperated with the FBI in its investigation of the coaches and other defendants.
Blazer, a former Pittsburgh financial adviser who was accused of swindling $2.35 million from five clients by the Securities and Exchange Commission and founded Blazer Capital Management, was accused of investing money into movies and entertainment ventures without his clients' knowledge between 2010 and 2012.
As part of his plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's office, Blazer agreed to plead guilty to securities fraud, aggravated identity theft, false statements and documents, and two counts of wire fraud, according to the Sept. 19 cooperation agreement.
What is the scope of the alleged bribes?
The documents filed by prosecutors allege that the family of a "Player-10," former ESPN 100 recruit Brian Bowen, was to receive $100,000 from the "sportswear" company.
The government also charges that Person received $91,500 from sports agents and/or financial advisors, of which he is said to have forwarded $18,500 to players and their families.
Could other programs or individuals face charges?
The FBI investigation is ongoing.
An FBI spokesperson at Tuesday's news conference warned others who could be involved in corrupt practices.
Joon H. Kim, the acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, describes the alleged involvement of college basketball coaches in a bribery and recruiting scheme.
Justin Lane/EPA

"We have your playbook," the spokesperson said.
If you are involved in this, call us.
It will be better for you to call us than for us to call you."
A phone number for a tip line was given at the news conference for anyone who wants to come forward with information.
Why is giving money to an assistant coach or young basketball player against the law?
The charges brought forward include violations of federal statutes on bribery and wire fraud, among other laws.
Any assistant coach found to be taking bribes while employed by an institution receiving federal funds, for example, could be liable to prosecution under federal law.
What is the NCAA's reaction?
"The nature of the charges brought by the federal government are deeply disturbing," NCAA president Mark Emmert said in a statement.
"We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families, and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
We learned of these charges this morning and of course will support the ongoing criminal federal investigation."
The NCAA was made aware of the investigation on Tuesday as well.
Have the schools taken any action?
Auburn suspended Person without pay effective immediately.
Oklahoma State suspended Evans with pay.
Arizona suspended Richardson and relieved him of all duties.
USC placed Bland on administrative leave.
USC also announced that it has hired former FBI director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal investigation.
In 2011, Freeh conducted an internal investigation of the Penn State child sexual abuse scandal involving Jerry Sandusky.
What happens next?
As noted at the news conference, the FBI is still pursuing its efforts but no longer doing so as a "covert" investigation.
The phone number for the tip line is being prominently publicized, and no one can say how many more shoes will drop.
Speaking strictly in terms of college sports, the behaviors alleged by federal authorities constitute violations of NCAA bylaws.
According to official protocol, the NCAA notifies an athletic program that it is under investigation if the NCAA has found sufficient evidence.
Then a series of hearings are held, often in front of the NCAA's Committee on Infractions.
Lastly, after the NCAA renders its verdict and the program is given a chance to appeal, a final decision is handed down.
This can be anything from a reduction in scholarships or a postseason ban on the basketball team to a show-cause order on a coach that prohibits him from being hired by any member institution for a stated number of years.
NCAA investigations can take anywhere from a few months to a number of years to reach a resolution.
The NCAA's current investigation into alleged academic fraud at the University of North Carolina, for example, began in June 2014.
What about the head coaches at these programs?
The assistants charged by the authorities have larger concerns than their employment status right now.
As for the head coaches that employed them, the first question will be whether any of the charged defendants will come forward with information directly implicating their head coaches.
Assuming no further information comes out documenting that head coaches had knowledge of what was taking place, much will depend on these coaches' previous track records in terms of compliance with NCAA rules, as well as the language on their current contracts.
If the past is any guide, any terminations issued by university presidents could be made the subject of a wrongful termination suit by the head coach who was fired.
Tom Brady and Aaron Rodgers showed why they're among the all-time greats on Sunday, while Derek Carr and Cam Newton fell flat.
So how did it all impact the NFL Power Rankings?
(1:00)

Here's a rundown of our Week 4 Power Rankings as determined by ESPN's power panel -- a group of more than 80 writers, editors and TV personalities -- with a special focus on all 32 starting quarterbacks.
Editor's Picks Three best, three worst QBs of Week 3: Pricey passers fall flat Jared Goff had the game of his life, while Cam Newton had a day to forget.
What we learned (and didn't) in Week 3: Where second-year coaches stand Doug Pederson's Eagles were the only team led by a second-year coach to win this weekend.
The other four lost in excruciating fashion.
Pederson, though, wasn't exempt from criticism.
Here are Week 3's lessons.
1 Related

We'll take a look at their performances so far this season using ESPN's Total QBR, an efficiency stat that measures all of a quarterback's contributions to winning.
It is measured on a 1-to-100 scale; an average quarterback will have a QBR of about 50, while a Pro Bowl-level player will have a QBR of about 75.
ESPN Stats & Information's John McTigue contributed the following information.
Methodology: These rankings reflect which teams voters think would win head-to-head matchups.
Higher-ranked teams would be favored against lower-ranked teams.
Coming off a win doesn't guarantee a jump, and a loss doesn't guarantee a fall.
Previous rankings: Week 3 | Week 2 | Preseason

2017 record: 3-0

Week 3 ranking: No.
1

Matt Ryan: 71.2 Total QBR.
Ryan snapped a streak of 309 pass attempts without an interception by throwing three picks in a span of 15 passes against the Lions.
The Falcons still won despite this, and with home games against the Bills and Dolphins coming up, they could very well be 5-0 heading into a Super Bowl rematch against the Patriots in Week 7.
2017 record: 3-0

Week 3 ranking: No.
2

Alex Smith: 51.7 Total QBR.
Smith is completing a league-best 77 percent of his passes and leads the NFL with three touchdowns on passes thrown 30 or more yards downfield.
The Chiefs will need that efficiency and deep passing to continue, as their next seven games are against teams that finished last season above .500.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
4

Tom Brady: 76.5 Total QBR.
Brady leads the league in passing yards (1,092) and Total QBR, and he has yet to throw an interception this season.
With the Patriots' defense currently ranking last in points allowed, New England will continue to rely on Brady's 40-year-old arm to get it through games.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
6

Aaron Rodgers: 52.7 Total QBR.
Rodgers has one touchdown and three interceptions in the first half of games this season, compared to five touchdowns and no picks in the second half.
The Packers are 2-1, but Rodgers will have to get off to better starts, especially with upcoming road games against the Cowboys and Vikings.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
7

Trevor Siemian: 58.8 Total QBR.
The Bills have allowed the fewest points per game this season, so Siemian's 36 Total QBR in Week 3 can be forgiven.
If he does the same this week against the Raiders, who have allowed the worst QBR so far (74), there might not be as much forgiveness.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
3

Ben Roethlisberger: 55.4 Total QBR.
Roethlisberger's Total QBR over the past three seasons has been 20 points worse on the road than at home.
The Steelers play four of their first six games on the road this season and still have trips to Baltimore and Kansas City in the coming weeks.
Roethlisberger's relatively slow start could get a lot slower as a result.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
5

Derek Carr: 43.9 Total QBR.
Carr hasn't completed a pass thrown more than 20 yards downfield this season.
The short-passing attack worked over the first few weeks, but Carr didn't come through when it got shut down in Week 3.
With the Broncos and Ravens coming up, Carr will need to show he can go vertical again.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
12

Matthew Stafford: 64.6 Total QBR.
Stafford ranks fifth in Total QBR, and it would be even better had Golden Tate not been ruled down at the end of the Falcons game.
A pair of stingy defenses await in the Vikings and Panthers over the next two weeks, but Stafford's efficiency should make the Lions a tough foe for anyone.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
8

Dak Prescott: 60.8 Total QBR.
Sometimes less is more.
Prescott needed to throw only 18 passes Monday, but he averaged 10.2 yards per attempt, a big improvement from his 5.7 average from his first two games.
Balance is key for the Cowboys and will continue to be with upcoming games against the Rams and Packers.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
14

Marcus Mariota: 56.6 Total QBR.
The Titans have two wins even with Mariota off to a modest start, throwing for just three touchdowns in three games.
Tennessee plays three of its next four on the road, which could actually be a benefit to Mariota.
His QBR is 14 points higher on the road (62) than at home (48) in his career.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
16

Case Keenum: 75.8 Total QBR.
Keenum posted a 94.6 Total QBR in Week 3, the best single-game QBR of the season.
Sam Bradford posted a 92.0 QBR in Week 1, the third best of the season.
The Vikings are rolling no matter the quarterback right now, and that will need to continue with three straight division games coming up.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
9

Russell Wilson: 49.0 Total QBR.
The good news is Wilson hasn't thrown an interception yet this season, but he has yet to complete more than 60 percent of his passes in a game.
Wilson's Total QBR currently ranks 20th, and a home game against the Colts might be just what the doctor ordered to get back on track.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
15

Carson Wentz: 63.7 Total QBR.
Wentz is coming through when it matters for the Eagles, posting the fourth-best Total QBR in the second half of games so far this season (74).
Wentz has games against the Chargers and Cardinals before getting a chance to shine (or flicker) in a pair of prime-time affairs.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
17

Kirk Cousins: 47.0 Total QBR.
Cousins averaged nearly twice as many yards per attempt (12.2) in Week 3 than he did in the first two weeks of the season (6.3).
He'll need more performances like last week's with upcoming road games against the Chiefs, Eagles and Seahawks.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
26

Tyrod Taylor: 59.6 Total QBR.
Despite losing most of his favorite targets this offseason, Taylor currently sits ninth in Total QBR.
Don't be surprised, though -- he finished in the top 10 in both 2015 and 2016, too.
He'll try to grind out more yards and wins on the road over the next two weeks with stops in Atlanta and Cincinnati.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
22

Jared Goff: 68.5 Total QBR.
Goff is averaging a league-best 10.1 yards per attempt this season, and he also has the fourth-best Total QBR.
He ranked last in both in 2016.
The new Rams offense will have some tougher challenges coming up though, with games against the Cowboys, Seahawks and surprising Jaguars.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
20

Deshaun Watson: 64.2 Total QBR.
Watson leads all quarterbacks in rushing, but he has improved his completion percentage and passing yardage in every game this season.
With the Titans, Chiefs and Seahawks on the schedule for three of Houston's next four games, his continued improvement will be crucial to any postseason aspirations for the Texans.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
10

Joe Flacco: 24.1 Total QBR.
Remember all of those deep balls Flacco hit during the Ravens' 2012 Super Bowl run?
Fast-forward to 2017 and Flacco's average pass distance is shortest in the NFL and led to the second-worst Total QBR.
The Steelers and Raiders await the Ravens the next two weeks, so Flacco needs to figure it out soon.
2017 record: 1-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
11

Jameis Winston: 47.3 Total QBR.
Winston followed up an interception-less season opener with three picks in Week 3.
Coach Dirk Koetter told him that limiting mistakes would be key toward making the next step.
With the Giants and Patriots coming up, it would help to take that next step ASAP.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
25

Blake Bortles: 48.1 Total QBR.
Over the past three seasons, Bortles is 3-0 with a 69 Total QBR in London games.
Unfortunately for him, he's 7-25 everywhere else in that time with a sub-45 QBR.
Bortles is not only back on American soil, but will be on the road for three of the next four games.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
21

Carson Palmer: 50.8 Total QBR.
Palmer had his best passing game of the season Monday night, but six sacks were too much to overcome.
He's now 1-9-1 when taking four or more sacks as a Cardinal, and unfortunately for him and Arizona, he'll be facing defensive linemen such as Fletcher Cox, Gerald McCoy and Aaron Donald in upcoming weeks.
2017 record: 2-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
13

Cam Newton: 25.6 Total QBR.
In his past 16 games, Newton has thrown 16 touchdowns and 16 interceptions and completed 54 percent of his passes.
If he doesn't shape up, the Panthers could be in trouble, as four of their next five are on the road.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
27

Mike Glennon: 27.8 Total QBR.
Glennon's average pass has been the second shortest in the NFL so far this season, which hasn't helped his overall efficiency, since his Total QBR ranks 27th in the league.
With games against the Packers, Vikings, Ravens and Panthers upcoming, we might see Mitchell Trubisky sooner rather than later.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
24

Drew Brees: 60.8 Total QBR.
This is the longest into a season Brees has gone without an interception, and the Saints are the only team in the NFL without a giveaway.
With the least efficient defense in the league, the Saints will need Brees to be flawless.
Let's see if Brees can continue protecting the ball against the Dolphins in London this week.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
28

Andy Dalton: 16.6 Total QBR.
Despite a solid effort against the Packers, Dalton still owns the worst Total QBR at 16.5.
It might not get better anytime soon.
The Bengals' next two games are at Cleveland, where Dalton has a career 36.1 Total QBR, and then home against the Bills, who have allowed the fewest points per game this season.
2017 record: 1-1

Week 3 ranking: No.
18

Jay Cutler: 42.0 Total QBR.
Cutler surprised with a 60 Total QBR in Week 2, but his 22 QBR in Week 3 against the lowly Jets' defense might have surprised even more.
If he can't do better against the Saints' defense this week in London, we might know who the "real" Jay Cutler is.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
24

Philip Rivers: 49.5 Total QBR.
After three touchdowns in Week 1, Rivers has one passing touchdown over the past two weeks, the same as Ryan Mallett, Jacoby Brissett and Kevin Hogan.
He'll have to do more with the Chargers' upcoming schedule: Eagles, Giants, Raiders, Broncos and Patriots.
If not, they could be staring 0-4, 0-5, 0-6 or worse in the face.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
19

Eli Manning: 42.6 Total QBR.
He might be completing 74 percent of his passes this season, but Manning's Total QBR ranks 25th in the NFL.
He seemed to right the ship in the fourth quarter on Sunday with three touchdowns, so we'll see if he can carry that momentum into Tampa this week.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
31

Brian Hoyer: 27.2 Total QBR.
Hoyer has thrown an interception in every game this season after not throwing any all of last year, leading to the fifth-worst Total QBR in the NFL.
If he's going to turn it around, he'll have to do it on the road.
The 49ers' next three games are all away.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
30

Jacoby Brissett: 50.9 Total QBR.
Brissett has more rushing touchdowns (three) in his career than passing (one), but his two rushing touchdowns in Week 3 helped the Colts earn their first win of the season.
He'll likely need to yield more from his arm with a trip to Seattle looming this weekend, assuming Andrew Luck is still out.
2017 record: 1-2

Week 3 ranking: No.
31

Josh McCown: 53.2 Total QBR.
After throwing two picks in the opener, McCown has posted a 68 Total QBR over the past two weeks, which is the fourth best in that span.
Will it continue?
The Jaguars, who own the second-best opponent QBR this season, are next.
2017 record: 0-3

Week 3 ranking: No.
29

DeShone Kizer: 26.6 Total QBR.
Kizer has the fourth-worst Total QBR this season, but there is some good news.
Well, kind of.
His QBR through three career starts is better than Brandon Weeden's and Johnny Manziel's, so that's good.
The Bengals and Jets are up next for the Browns, so there's hope for improvement.
Alejandro Villanueva regrets the image of him standing alone during the national anthem because it appears Mike Tomlin and the Steelers aren't behind him in the tunnel, which he says is not true.
(0:32)

Pittsburgh Steelers offensive tackle Alejandro Villanueva met the media Monday to discuss what happened prior to Sunday's game in Chicago.
While some NFL players knelt, sat or locked arms during the anthem Sunday as a show of unity and form of protest to comments made by President Trump, the Steelers had planned to stay in the locker room instead of making any gesture on the sidelines.
But Villanueva was photographed by himself in a tunnel by the field with his right hand over his heart during the anthem at Soldier Field.
Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who toured several times in Afghanistan, explained what happened:

Alejandro Villanueva: This is humbling.
So I'll first address the last 48 hours of events and what's transpired.
This national anthem sort of ordeal has been out of control, and I think there's a lot to blame on myself, and I want to address it.
So Saturday night, as you guys all know, there was a team meeting that was going to determine what we were going to do as a team.
Coach [Mike] Tomlin gave us the guidance that we had to do it as one, so 100 percent, whatever it is that we had to do.
There was disagreement in what we were going to do.
And the only course of action was to go inside and remove ourself from the situation.
It was never to disrespect the national anthem.
Every single one of my teammates is extremely supportive and extremely patriotic in this locker room.
And I can not only say that for this locker room, but I can say that across the NFL, every single player that I've gone against.
After the meeting ... based on my unique circumstances and based on the fact that I've served in the Army and pretty much that my life is lived through the military, I asked Ben [Roethlisberger] if there was a way to define the inside or where it is we were going to stay and if I could watch the national anthem from the tunnel, and he agreed.
He said the captains will be out there right behind me, so this plan morphed to accommodate this tough, moral dilemma that I had in my hands to where the players can be behind me in the tunnel.
Ben Roethlisberger said at 56 make sure you're out there because the national anthem is going to start at 57.
I walked out at 12:56.
I asked one of the security guards when the national anthem was going to start, he said 20 seconds.
So I just walked out and I stopped as soon as I saw the flag, as soon as I had a vantage point.
That, to me, was enough.
There was a flag that was coming in from one of the previous celebrations.
When I turned around to sort of signal everyone to come so they wouldn't leave me alone that's when they were essentially unable to exit.
At that moment it was the decision of do you walk out of the national anthem and join your teammates?
I know that would have looked extremely bad.
Or as a team, do you start moving halfway through the national anthem?
So essentially what we can get out of this is we butchered our plan to sort of have a response for the national anthem and respect everyone's opinions.
I would say that my personal thoughts about the situation is that regardless of this plan, very few players knew that I was going to the tunnel because I only asked the team leadership.
And because of that I did not give them an opportunity to stand with me during the national anthem.
That is the very embarrassing part of my end in what transpired, because when everybody sees an image of me standing by myself, everybody thinks that the team, the Steelers, are not behind me, and that's absolutely wrong.
It's quite the opposite.
They all would have ... actually the entire team would have been out there with me, even the ones who wanted to take a knee would have been with me had they known these extreme circumstances that at Soldier Field, in the heat of the moment, when I've got soldiers, wounded veterans texting me that I have to be out there, I think everything would have been put aside, from every single one of my teammates, no doubt.
So because of that, I've made Coach Tomlin look bad, and that is my fault, and that is my fault only.
I made my teammates look bad, and that is my fault, and my fault only.
And I made the Steelers also look bad, and that is my fault, and my fault only.
So unwillingly, I made a mistake.
I talked to my teammates about the situation, hopefully they understand it.
If they don't, I still have to live with it, because the nature of this debate is causing a lot of very heated reaction from fans from players, and it's undeserving to all of the players and coaches from this organization.
So with that, I'll open up for any questions.
Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger, explained why he stood in the tunnel by himself, then he apologized to his teammates and the Steelers.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images

Al, would you be OK if ... Ben said everyone's going to go onto the field in Baltimore.
Would you be OK if your teammates knelt -- some of them knelt, some of them sat?
AV: Yeah, absolutely.
There have been players that have gone out of their way in the National Football League to thank me for my service.
The archrivals in the AFC North, Terrell Suggs, Michael Johnson, John Harbaugh, they've gone out of their way after a game to thank me for my service.
And not just because it's me, it's because I'm a soldier, I could be Soldier X, and they're out there thanking me.
So out of all these players in the NFL who are taking a knee, I don't think as a veteran I take offense.
In a big picture where there's customized different thing, nobody thinks when you're taking a knee you're offending the flag.
And they're saying it.
And I don't think that anybody that standing for the flag is not respecting the fact that there is a lot of unjustices and racial divide in our country.
So we're essentially talking about two completely different things.
But the problem is that it's interpreted as disrespectful to the flag, and so at the end of the day people have to live with those consequences.
Colin Kaepernick did, and there's a lot that can be said about his adventure of starting this process.
But I take no offense, I don't think veterans at the end of the day take offense, they actually signed up and fought so that somebody could take a knee and protest peacefully for whatever it is their hearts desire.
What did you express to your teammates Saturday night about any potential feelings you had about not seeing the field?
AV: There's a lot of levels, and there's a lot of reasons why people join the Army.
But at the end of the day ... it happens all the time, people die for the flag.
There's no way else to put it.
When somebody's about to go on a mission, when somebody's loading up the Chinook, when somebody's ready to go, there's nothing else that's going to justify other than the men to the left and right dying for that mission.
I wish I could stay home.
I wish we could all play "Call of Duty" and not have to go to war.
Some men, some women, sign up for this tough challenge, and they have to do it for the flag.
When I see a flag of a mission on the shoulder of a soldier that reminds me that that guy's with me.
It reminds me that I have to fight and lay my life down for him.
Whether it's in my unit, whether it's Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, it doesn't matter.
You're going to have a flag on your shoulder, I'm going to identify that, and we're fighting for each other.
So that's what the flag means to me, that's what the flag means to a lot of veterans.
Wounded warriors, they have no legs, they have shrapnel in their legs, they stand up and salute [during] the national anthem, it means a lot to them, it means a lot to me.
So I think my teammates respected this thoroughly.
It was just not communicated and the plan did not allow them the chance to get out and support me or maybe go back to the lab and sit five more hours before the game and figure out a plan.
I thought we had to go to bed, work something in the middle.
Unfortunately, I threw them under the bus unintentionally.
Al, today you had the best-selling jersey in the league.
You're a guy who doesn't enjoy -- you don't like this attention for this sort of stuff -- so how does it feel?
People are treating you because of those pictures today, they're treating you as some sort of hero who stood up to whatever.
They sort of take or interpret it for another thing.
What would you say to people who are trying to put you up there?
AV: It's completely wrong, and every single time I see that picture of me standing by myself I feel embarrassed to a degree, because like I said, unintentionally I left my teammates behind.
It wasn't me stepping forward.
I never planned to boycott the plan that the Steelers came up with.
I just thought that there would be some middle ground where I could stay in the tunnel, nobody would see me, and then afterward I just wouldn't talk to the media, like I do all the time.
I'll avoid you guys, I'll shower, bring my clothes in, never address you guys and two weeks later you guys will be talking about something else.
So I thought that was in my head what was going to happen: Steelers don't show up for national anthem, there's a debate nationally about what's right or wrong, everything goes down, we go back to talk about North Korea or the health-care bill and then we play the Baltimore Ravens and we forget about it.
So you guys know me, for the guys who come into the locker room all the time, I hate attention, I don't like it, I give you guys clichs so you guys will leave me alone.
But when it comes to this, it's a difficult situation, and I don't like the attention, and at the end of the day, the reason whether I want it or not, whether it was my intent or not, the reason I went out there by myself is the reason that is causing all this distress that is making the organization look bad, my coach look bad and my teammates look bad.
And for anybody who thinks Coach Tomlin is not as patriotic as you can get in America, or any one of my teammates or the owner, I take offense to that.
That's how I feel when I see myself standing alone for the national anthem.
Al, do you think the president should apologize for calling NFL players derogatory names or for drawing you guys into this in the first place?
AV: You know, you guys do this for a living.
You guys enjoy, and you guys comment on what the president says, I play football.
I don't have anything to say about the commander-in-chief and his decisions.
I've been following orders when I was in the military, and now I'm not responsible enough to make a comment about the president.
I'll stick to football.
I respect other players who want to talk about the president and his decision, but I have a lot on my plate.
I have to play to a standard.
I have to represent the Steelers organization, so I have nothing to comment about what the president says.
In following the story and having to see that picture, what did you learn about how the country views this issue that could be divisive?
AV: I think I'm going to give credit to Coach [Mike] Munchak, because he's the one that sort of deciphered it for all of us.
We're not talking about the same thing.
That's the thing people need to understand when it comes to the national anthem.
And I was one of the first ones who took offense when Colin Kaepernick took a knee.
I was one of the first ones who did an interview and, to a certain degree, I never criticized but I didn't agree with it.
People don't understand, but the people who are taking a knee are not saying anything negative about the military, not saying anything negative about the flag.
They're just trying to protest the fact that there are some injustices in America.
And for people to stand up for the national anthem, it doesn't mean they don't believe in these racial injustices, they're just trying to do the right thing.
So we as a team tried to figure it out, obviously butchered it, but I have learned that I don't know what it's like to be from Dade County, I don't know what it's like to be from Lakeland, I can't tell you that I know what my teammates have gone through.
So I'm not going to pretend that I have the righteous sort of voice to tell you that you should stand up for the national anthem.
It is protected by our constitution, and by our country, it's a freedom of speech.
People felt that based on the comments the president made that they had to go out and support Colin Kaepernick, and that's completely their right.
But it's not something we're trying to do with the Steelers, we're trying to be unified, and unfortunately I made the team look sort of all over the place and not unified.
It was a very unfortunate sort of 48 hours for me.
You think you'll be able to go back to anonymity you seek now that you're thrown out in front of this?
AV: I'm always going to stand up for the national anthem.
Coach Tomlin could have picked any other tackle to develop and turn into a starting left tackle.
I have to be real with myself and understand that the reason I'm playing here, the reason the Steelers got me here, is because I served in the military.
They saw something in that story that attracted them.
Because the Philadelphia Eagles cut me and I was the first player to be cut in Philadelphia, and the only person to call me was Coach Tomlin.
So I don't know.
To a certain degree I really don't care.
I can't go out there and pick you up if you're taking a knee or make you put your hand on your heart or sing the national anthem.
I really don't care.
I'm going to stand up for the national anthem.
I'll support all my teammates.
All my teammates have always supported me.
All my coaches have always supported me.
There are 32 teams out there.
I got cut from Philadelphia, the only one to call me was Mike Tomlin, and it was because he saw some character traits that might help me become a future starter.
And he did, so for me, I'm not going to control that.
If the whole NFL wants to kneel down, stand up, go to Army-Navy store, buy new uniforms, it doesn't matter.
I'm just trying to play football.
Will you share what your teammates may have said to you over the last 24 hours, and do you think in some strange way this has brought the team even closer together?
AV: The team meeting that we had on Saturday night brought the whole team together.
Absolutely, it really did.
We had great conversations between people that felt some type of way.
We completely understood that everything that was going on outside the building was not in our control and we were going to do something together.
Unfortunately I felt the pressure of having to find some middle ground so I could at least be in the national anthem.
My teammates wanted to do that, it got butchered because of this flag thing, maybe and hopefully if this is a really big deal, they'll find videos, of people as they were bringing out the flag and you can tell they could not leave the locker room.
But how would you feel if you were a player, there was a lot of players, I'm not going to name them, I would say 99, I would say almost all of them, I couldn't even tell you who was going to take a knee, but all my teammates wanted to stand up for the national anthem, they did not want this to be a distraction at all.
Their first course of action was to go out there and stand up.
But in order to remove any doubt of last second, we decided to stay away from the situation.
Not protest it, but stay away from the situation.
And how would you feel if you were somebody who really wants to go out there and stand up for the national anthem, and you didn't know there was a player who was going to stand out there in the tunnel and see from a vantage point.
I would be really pissed, because now he's getting all the heat and all the -- obviously I don't have social media, but they have social media, they're getting negative feedback because they didn't stand up for the national anthem, when in reality they would have done it.
They were fighting to stand up for the national anthem.
Everybody on the offensive line was very adamant about standing up for the national anthem.
Who cares?
You know.
We understand there's a lot of problems out there.
But I didn't give them the chance, based on the fact I told very few people, that there were going to be a selective few that were going to go out there.
We were just trying to come up with a middle-ground plan so that I would at least get to see the national anthem, some other players would, but if you have a different type of view, you could stay in the locker room.
BEST AND WORST

QBs OF WEEK

Start
Coach Adam Gase admits that the Dolphins just "didn't show up" against the Jets, while quarterback Jay Cutler says he and his teammates have to better prepare for their opponents down the line.
(0:29)

PHILADELPHIA -- In an earlier, headier part of his NFL coaching career, Ben McAdoo once talked of his players having to "learn how to handle success."
This is not a problem with which McAdoo and his New York Giants are currently grappling.
Editor's Picks Week 4 NFL Power Rankings: Let's talk about your QB Tom Brady and his 40-year-old arm are carrying the Patriots.
Deshaun Watson continues to improve.
And Joe Flacco isn't looking so elite.
Here's how all 32 teams (and their quarterbacks) stack up so far.
Barnwell: Seasons that changed over 23 minutes of Week 3 madness Just how great were the 1 p.m.
ET games on Sunday?
The top five games produced the seventh-best average Excitement Index since 2005.
Here's what you need to know about each matchup.
Best rookie performances of Week 3: Watson, McCaffrey, Cook, Hunt stay hot Here's a closer look at how some of the top rookies fared in Week 3.
2 Related

McAdoo's second year as head coach has started as poorly as anyone could have imagined.
The Giants are one of five 0-3 teams in the NFL.
They have scored in only four of 12 quarters.
In the past week, McAdoo has been criticized for calling out his veteran quarterback; for insufficiently calling out his young left tackle and his star wide receiver; for myriad in-game coaching decisions; and for refusing to answer questions about whether he'll give up playcalling duties.
(He won't.)
Just imagine what it must be like to look back on a 2016 season in which you were routinely the butt of jokes about your hair, your mustache, your wardrobe and the size of your play sheet and think, "Those were the days!"
Yeah, it's hard out here for a coach, and Tom Coughlin's successor is finding that the road to legacy is studded with potholes.
McAdoo was the most successful of the first-year head coaches hired during the 2016 cycle, leading the Giants to an 11-5 record and their first playoff berth in five years.
Miami's Adam Gase was right behind him at 10-6 and was the only other first-year coach to reach the playoffs last season.
Tampa Bay's Dirk Koetter went 9-7 and just missed out.
Philadelphia's Doug Pederson went 7-9.
San Francisco's Chip Kelly went 2-14 and got fired.
Cleveland's Hue Jackson went 1-15 and didn't get fired.
And while there's no reason to think any of the remaining four (or McAdoo, for that matter) are on the "hot seat" at this point, Sunday wasn't a great day for this group.
Only one of them won (at the expense of another), and their teams were outscored by a combined 136-102.
Encores aren't an easy business, and these seats sometimes do get warm more quickly than you think.
So this week's "What we learned" column looks at each of these five second-year coaches, what we learned Sunday about where their teams stand and how things are likely to look for them at the end of the 2017 season.
Ben McAdoo, New York Giants

The Giants are in real trouble, sitting at 0-3 overall and 0-2 in the NFC East.
The offense scored 24 points in the fourth quarter in Week 3 and appeared on the verge of a season-saving victory, before a lousy punt and a 61-yard Eagles field goal broke their Big Blue hearts.
I still think the NFC East will end up being an ugly jumble, thanks to travel schedules and games against West division teams, and it's possible the winner could finish 9-7.
But that would require the Giants to go 9-4 from here out.
McAdoo's test right now is to make sure his locker room doesn't mutiny -- something his predecessor was able to avoid amid successive rough starts from 2013 to 2015.
Whatever McAdoo once said about handling success, showing an ability to manage a team through failure is his current mission -- even if all that means is making sure your players conduct themselves like professionals through a lost season.
Prediction: Too many tough road games left -- Tampa Bay, Denver, Oakland, Arizona, Washington -- plus home games against the likes of Kansas City and Seattle.
It'll get better from here because it has to, but this Giants team will struggle to get to .500 and will miss the playoffs for the fifth time in six years.
Doug Pederson is 9-10 as coach of the Eagles.
AP Photo/Michael Perez

Doug Pederson, Philadelphia Eagles

The beneficiary of that 61-yard field goal, Pederson has a 2-1 team that's tied for first place in the division.
Nevertheless, he spent the 24 hours that followed his victory answering questions and hearing ridicule about a variety of questionable in-game decisions.
He defended an indefensible decision to go for it on fourth-and-8 from midfield in the second quarter by referring to "the guy that's helping me upstairs with some of the analytics."
Pederson and offensive coordinator Frank Reich, both former NFL quarterbacks, have received well-deserved praise for their early work with quarterback Carson Wentz.
But if the Eagles are going to be a factor in that NFC East jumble, Pederson will get the full Andy Reid treatment from the league's most persistent local media contingent.
That means every in-game decision and every press conference quote is fodder for next-day talk show angst.
And that plays a lot tougher when the miracle field goal misses than when it slips through the bottom right corner of the uprights.
Prediction: This Eagles team is still a work in progress.
Wentz will establish himself as a star in Year 2, but he still will make his share of young-quarterback mistakes.
Couple that with Pederson's head-coach growing pains, the lack of a run game and issues in the secondary, and this is an Eagles team on the rise but still not good enough to win the East -- unless it's at 8-8 or 9-7 with tiebreaker help.
Dirk Koetter, Tampa Bay Buccaneers

A fun season of "Hard Knocks" got everybody fired up about this Bucs team, and a dominating Week 2 victory over the Chicago Bears (their hurricane-delayed season debut) made you think that excitement must be justified.
But Tampa Bay got smoked in Week 3 by Case Keenum and the Minnesota Vikings.
And Koetter's crew is dealing with a potentially crippling rash of injuries on the defensive side of the ball.
Another offensive coach tasked with the development of a young quarterback, Koetter also is tasked with helping convince his up-and-coming team it can make life difficult for the defending NFC champion Atlanta Falcons, who by the way are 3-0 already.
Look back to the kinds of things Jack Del Rio was doing with the Oakland Raiders early last season -- going for it on fourth down in key late-game spots, for instance.
He was trying to teach a team that hadn't won in a while what it felt like to win -- and to play to win.
Koetter would do well to look for those kinds of opportunities early, while the Bucs are finding their feet.
Prediction: The Bucs don't play the Carolina Panthers until Week 8 or the Falcons until Week 12, so by the time the NFC South race really gets going, we'll have learned a lot more about this team.
I think they're good enough to snag a wild-card spot, with Cam Newton scuffling and the NFC East and West each looking unlikely to produce more than one playoff team.
Adam Gase called his team's performance on Sunday "just a lot of bad football."
Photo by Rich Schultz/Getty Images

Adam Gase, Miami Dolphins

There was no more embarrassing loss in the league this week than the Dolphins' 20-6 defeat at the hands of a New York Jets team that isn't built to win any games this season.
The defense fell apart, the offense never got going and a Dolphins team that might be the AFC East's best hope against the New England Patriots fell to 1-1.
Quarterback Jay Cutler, the guy Gase yanked out of the broadcast booth because Ryan Tannehill got hurt and he needed someone who knew his offense, called Sunday a "wake-up call."
The question for the Dolphins is, "Wake up from what?"
Gase has shown promise, but he's in a position similar to that of McAdoo, in that he set a high first-year bar and will be judged against it.
One thing he has that McAdoo doesn't is experience recovering from a rough start.
The Dolphins started 1-4 last season and won nine of their last 11 games.
So 1-1 isn't that big a deal down there.
Prediction: Another playoff berth with another flawed roster would stamp Gase as a major coaching superstar on the come.
But Miami still has to go to Atlanta, Baltimore, Carolina, New England and Kansas City.
There are too many good teams in the AFC, and Cutler isn't the guy to write a hero story.
The Dolphins will miss the playoffs.
Hue Jackson, Cleveland Browns

So distressed are the Andrew Luck-less Indianapolis Colts that the Browns were actually favored in Sunday's game.
This is an event so rare that you need to order special glasses from Amazon in order to look directly at it.
Less rare was the outcome -- a Browns loss, their 18th in 19 games with Jackson as coach.
You hear a lot from people in the Browns organization about the way Jackson's energy and positivity keep the building upbeat and hopeful for the future.
But if you get to Christmas Eve again before winning your first game of the season, that energy carries you only so far.
Jimmy Haslam's track record as Browns owner has established a real "rent-don't-buy" ethos for coaches and front-office types in Cleveland, and while the people to whom I spoke insist Haslam is all-in on the rebuild, you do wonder how long that patience holds out.
Prediction: An up-and-coming defense and a fun but flawed young quarterback offer hope, and hope in and of itself is progress in Cleveland.
But this team is nowhere near playoff contention and should be thrilled to get to four or five wins.
Haslam's history makes Jackson the most likely of these coaches to find himself unemployed at the end of 2017.
The Bottom 10 inspirational thought of the week:

"They -- they're what we thought they were.
We played them in preseason.
I mean, who the hell takes the third game of the preseason like it's bulls---?
Bulls---!
We played them in the third game.
Everybody played three quarters.
The Bears are who we thought they were!
That's why we took the damn field!
Now [slaps microphone], if you want to crown them, then crown their ass!
But -- they are who we thought they were, and we let them off the hook!"
-- Dennis Green, former Arizona Cardinals head coach

When I was in high school, I was skinny.
Like, pre-super-serum Pvt.
Steve Rogers "somebody give that kid a sandwich" skinny.
As an athlete, I was fast, but that was kind of it.
I had hands of stone.
I had shins of glass.
On the practice field, I could hold my own.
But in the weight room ... well, the weight room, it was not my friend.
Leg day, I was good to go.
But whenever I hit the bench press, I was suddenly surrounded by impromptu spotters and jeerers, worried for my well-being.
However, this was the 1980s and a store called GNC was starting to pop up in shopping malls.
I went and bought some powdered stuff that the sales guy in the smedium shirt said would pump me up like him.
I ordered some sort of weird vitamins from a men's magazine.
I did a bunch of even weirder exercises diagrammed in a foldout poster located in that same magazine, between a story about car stereo systems and a profile of Heather Locklear.
I did all of that for months.
So, when I returned to the weight room and laid down on that bench, I was sure my team would be blown away by the newly enhanced me, like secret agents fawning over the newly ripped Steve Rogers.
But the weight of reality soon came crashing down on me.
I couldn't breathe from it all.
Then I realized it wasn't reality.
It was the bar, crushing my esophagus.
After my teammates saved my life, they left me alone to sit and grapple with the words that, years later, Dennis Green would scream into a microphone.
Dangit, after all that work and hope, I was still exactly who I thought I was.
I hadn't thought about that moment in years.
Then, via a television camera in Nashville, Tennessee, I recognized the look that I had on my face that day so many years ago in the face of another.
When you skip your 4 hour Saturday lab to watch this Vandy game pic.twitter.com/OLXO4epXTw  Ben Elia (@TheBenElia) September 23, 2017

With apologies to Dr. Abraham Erskine and Steve Harvey, here's this week's Bottom 10.
Well, Bottom 10 GameDay didn't happen.
When I arrived on campus Saturday night with my GoPro and a folding chair, I was immediately escorted off campus by two very large men in two very green mining costumes.
Apparently, I deeply offended 49ers fans when I suggested that one week ago North Carolina A&T had more people in the Charlotte stands than Charlotte did.
I admit, I was wrong.
This week, as they hosted the 2017 Pillow Fight of the Year: Episode I against Georgia State Not Southern, a debate over which school had the most people in the seats didn't matter.
Because no one really had anyone in the seats.
It was a valiant effort in Knoxville.
So valiant it will very well end up being one of the primary planks of the argument that forces Tennessee's coach to walk, well, the plank.
But ... the Minutemen are still the nation's only 0-5 team.
It was a valiant effort at home against Oklahoma.
So valiant it will very well end up being one of the planks of the argument that forces Baylor fans to turn back from walking, well, the plank.
But ... the Bears are still the Big 12's only 0-4 team.
It was a valiant effort at Buffalo.
So valiant ... actually, no, sorry.
The Fightin' Kiffins lost to a backup QB at Buffalo.
Not the Bills, the Bulls.
This premise just officially expired.
The SEC Least

How do I love an entire division in the Coveted Fifth Spot?
Let me count the ways.
Vandy lost to Bama by 59 points; Mizzou lost to Auburn by 37; Kentucky fell to Florida for the 31st time in a row by blowing a 13-point, fourth-quarter lead.
Then Florida had nine players tagged in a fraud case.
And the team that had just lost to Kentucky last week, South Carolina, had to kick a late field goal to win 17-16 over Louisiana Tech, a team that came in the day ranked 94th in the nation in points allowed.
Am I missing anyone?
Oh yeah, Tennessee message boards have been filled with eleventy-billion #FireButch complaints after being in this spot solo last week and then narrowly escaping UMass.
So, how many ways?
All those other numbers added to eleventy-billion.
After dropping to 0-3, the Minors fired their offensive coordinator after falling to 126th in the nation in total yards.
In their first game under the new play-calling regime, they fell to 128th.
Last week I stated that the Falcons' arrival into our rankings was the first appearance by a MAC team this season but was quickly corrected by multiple readers who pointed out that they were, indeed, the second.
It's shocking that we would have any errors, seeing as how our Bottom 10 Stats & Info department just got that new Commodore 64.
So, who was the first MAC team to make it?
That would be the Flashes, who return to our rankings after losing at Louisville 42-3 -- or 42-10 if you count the squirrel who ran out onto the field and crossed the goal line.
And we are.
Of the MAC East's six teams, three have losing records and one sits at .500.
This weekend they all throw down in a MACtion Pillow Fight Bunkhouse Stampede as 0-4 Boiling Green hosts 1-3 Akron and 1-3 State of Kent hosts the 2-2 Buffalo Bulls Not Bills.
Remember that scene in "The Avengers" when Thor, Captain America and Iron Man clash in the forest and level everything around them?
This will totally not be like that.
Prior to the Wolf Pack's visit to Washington State, much was written about former Kentucky head coach and "Air Raid" offensive guru Hal Mumme, longtime mentor to Wazzu head coach Mike Leach and father of Nevada offensive coordinator Matt Mumme.
The Cougars won 45-7.
In related news, this winter Leach and the Mummes will appear together on a special episode of "Dr. Phil" titled, Why does Dad love you more than me?
After losing to the Bottom 10's previously top/bottom-ranked team, the EC-Yew Pirates, multiple unconfirmed reports tell me that UConn head coach Randy Edsall attempted to board a plane bound for Maryland.
When told he needed to rejoin the Huskies on the bus back to Storrs, he replied, "No, no, it's cool.
This totally works.
I did it before.
Google it."
Waiting list: EC-Yew (1-3), Living on Tulsa Time (1-3), UNC Tear Heels (1-3), Kansas Nayhawks (1-3), South Alabama (1-3), In A Rut-gers (1-3), Minute Rice (1-3), Akron (1-3), San No-se State (1-4), OH-regon State (1-3), and again, basically the entire Fun Belt (12 teams, 1 with a winning record)
The Penn State running back has found himself in the Heisman conversation thanks to his electric play.
(0:57)

Perhaps the least controversial statement in college football, four weeks into this season, escaped the lips of Penn State Nittany Lions offensive tackle Ryan Bates in the wake of Saquon Barkley's monster effort Saturday night as the fourth-ranked Nittany Lions beat Iowa 21-19.
"He can do everything," Bates said.
Barkley, the junior running back, a 5-foot-11, 230-pound mix of power, speed and quickness who already owns the freshman and sophomore rushing records at PSU, is good enough now to be known nationally simply by his first name.
"He can make people miss.
He can run people over.
He jumps over people," Bates said.
"He can catch the ball.
He can run the ball.
He can block."
Of course, he can.
What's stunning, though, as Barkley ascends to the top of ESPN's Heisman Trophy watch list in the waning days of September, is that he found a way last week to display all of his talents at once.
Well, not on one play.
That would be too much to expect for even Barkley.
But during the course of Penn State's Big Ten opener in Iowa City, Barkley showcased his complete arsenal, registering likely his best performance at PSU as he broke Curt Warner's 36-year-old school record for all-purpose yards with 358 on 40 offensive touches and three kickoff returns.
"I cannot imagine that there's a better player in all of college football," Penn State coach James Franklin said.
"I've been doing this for 23 years.
The guy is special."
Penn State RB Saquon Barkley has 518 yards rushing and is averaging a stunning 7.8 yards per carry through four games this season.
He also has 23 receptions for 335 yards.
He has six total TDs this season.
Jeffrey Becker-USA TODAY Sports

Barkley's teammates and coaches watched him rush for a league-leading 1,496 yards and score 22 touchdowns last year.
They saw him gain 1,076 yards as a true freshman in 2015.
He still left them in awe Saturday.
"There was a play where he was surrounded by four guys on the sideline," Penn State quarterback Trace McSorley said.
"He almost didn't even make a move and squirted out of it.
I think, at that point, I kind of caught myself going, 'Oh, my God, what was that?'
"There are times where you see it, react to it and real quick, you've gotta move on to the next play."
McSorley refers to a third-quarter Barkley run of 44 yards immediately after Penn State's Grant Haley recovered a fumble by Iowa running back Akrum Wadley.
Barkley ran left toward the PSU sideline, through multiple attempts to bring him down, then came to a stop and danced past linebacker Josey Jewell, who typically tackles everything in sight.
"We work on that," Barkley said.
"We kinda call it a dead leg."
Others work on it, too.
That doesn't make them any more similar to Barkley, who took a third-down screen pass from McSorley early in the fourth quarter, hurdled cornerback Josh Jackson and absorbed a hit from safety Amani Hooker while still in the air before landing on his feet to gain 10 yards.
"Most of that's just instinct," Barkley said.
"That was third-and-6.
Gotta make a play.
Gotta find a way.
It was a critical moment in the game.
We needed a first down.
We needed to start establishing drives.
Your body just takes over.
You let go."
Speaking of critical moments, how about the reception that Barkley took 4 yards behind the line of scrimmage, at Iowa's 28-yard line with 24 seconds left in the game and Penn State trailing by four points, and raced to the 10?
The Nittany Lions' win probability percentage, according to ESPN, jumped 28.8 points to 51 percent on that play alone.
"Every time he touched the football," Franklin said, "it was special."
Four plays later, on fourth-and-goal from the 7, Barkley found himself as the lone man between McSorley and a blitzing Jewell.
Barkley made his block as the QB delivered the winning throw to Juwan Johnson in the end zone.
ESPN

Barkley said he was most proud of the Nittany Lions' two-minute drive at the end.
"People who appreciate football," he said, "that was a clinic."
Maybe so, but he put on a clinic all night -- and against a defense as solid as Penn State will face this year ahead of an Oct. 21 showdown with Michigan at Beaver Stadium.
Barkley finished with 211 rushing yards on 28 carries and a career-best 12 catches for 94 yards.
"I can't take credit for the performance I had," Barkley said.
"It's an 11-man sport.
It's a team sport.
Especially as a running back, you can't do it by yourself."
His humility could get annoying if Barkley wasn't so genuine.
He could take more credit.
And whatever Barkley gets, he deserves more.
Meanwhile, the Nittany Lions know better than to grow accustomed to his creativity and array of skills.
They know what the nation has begun to recognize -- don't look away from Saquon for even a moment.
"He's going to end up bringing up some other new way [to make a play] that no one's ever seen before," McSorley said.
"It's going to make us all go, 'Whoa.'
So you've just kind of gotta let him do what he does."
Yes, most everyone who saw him up close at Iowa, it seems, understood they were in the presence of something rare.
Something that may end with Barkley standing on a New York stage in December.
WEEK 4 AT IOWA RUSHING YDS TD YPC 211 1 7.5 RECEIVING REC YDS YPR TD 12 94 7.8 0

2017 SEASON RUSHING YDS TD YPC 518 4 7.8 RECEIVING REC YDS YPR TD 23 335 14.6 2

Barkley takes over the top spot in the Heisman Watch after running through -- and hurdling over -- a tough Iowa team.
He had his best game of the season in terms of rushing yardage and leads the nation in receiving yards by a running back.
In a 10-team playoff field, there are 45 possible matchups of teams -- 45 combinations of rivalry history, grudges and feuds.
Dig one layer deeper, and you find the looming mano a mano standoffs -- Clayton Kershaw vs. Bryce Harper, Aroldis Chapman vs. Jose Ramirez, Byron Buxton vs. Fenway Parks center-field triangle, Max Scherzer vs. Corey Kluber, Zack Greinke vs. his former Dodgers teammates.
During the past couple of weeks, some broadcast teammates and I have been having a fun conversation about which team playoff matchups would be the most compelling.
Heres my list:

1.
Dodgers-Nationals

Kershaw was 7 months old the last time the Dodgers won a World Series; the Nationals have never won the World Series.
So if these teams meet in the National League Championship Series, each side would seemingly stand to lose as much as they have to gain.
If Los Angeles failed to survive the Nationals, the Dodgers summer of domination would be squandered.
Kershaw, who is measured against the greatest pitchers of all time, would miss perhaps his best opportunity to eliminate the stupid narrative about him not being a big-game pitcher.
There would be continued debate about whether the organizations mix-and-match philosophy can work in the October tournament.
If the Nationals got knocked out by the Dodgers -- again -- it would leave Washington short of the World Series heading into the final year with Harper before he hits free agency.
The ghosts of the 2012 shutdown would continue to hang over Stephen Strasburg.
General Manager Mike Rizzo would yet again have to spend time and resources trying to construct an October-worthy bullpen.
And who knows what the impact of another playoff loss would have on the forthcoming contract talks between Dusty Baker and the Nationals -- suffice to say that his bargaining position will be greatly strengthened if Washington advances to the World Series.
A Dodgers-Nationals series might be more pressurized than just about any other.
Diamondbacks-Dodgers

If Arizona survives the NL wild-card game and faces its division rival, there would be two simple truths in play:

A.
The Dodgers have been the leagues dominant team all year.
The Diamondbacks pounded the Dodgers in the most recent games between the teams.
Arizona swept the Dodgers in the last six regular-season games, outscoring them 40-13.
The Dodgers rotation could be loaded with some of the games best left-handed starting pitchers  Kershaw, Rich Hill, Alex Wood -- and Arizona bolstered the middle of its generally right-handed-hitting lineup with perhaps the best lefty masher in baseball, J.D.
Martinez: He is 33-for-89 (.371) with 9 doubles, 1 triple and 11 homers against lefties.
Arizona lefty Robbie Ray has thrown 31 2/3 innings against Los Angeles this season, and in those, he has 53 strikeouts and has allowed just 24 hits with a 2.27 ERA.
In a five-game series against the Dodgers, Ray would get two starts and Greinke would get one shot at his former club, a shot at sticking it to his ex-employers.
And the history of the rivalry also would get dragged into the conversation around this series, probably more by fans and media than the players: The time Dodgers players allegedly peed in the Diamondbacks pool, the bench-clearing dust-ups, etc.
Yankees-Red Sox

For the first time in more than a decade, there is legitimate animosity between the franchises, who could meet in the American League Championship Series.
The Yankees are convinced the Red Sox illicitly stole signs and games from them using banned technology, and the Red Sox are perturbed that this part of their feud has been aired in public.
CC Sabathia, the oldest Yankee, got angry at former teammate Eduardo Nunez for bunting.
Boston seems to have an enhanced level of comfort against Yankees closer Aroldis Chapman, just as it did against future Hall of Famer Mariano Rivera.
On the other hand, the Yankees have had success in games started by Chris Sale in the same way they used to find a way to win when Pedro Martinez pitched: They won three of the four games Sale started against them after the All-Star break.
As Grady Little knows firsthand, a Red Sox-Yankees postseason series can lead to employment change, and both managers would have a lot at stake.
Indians-Yankees

In the past two weeks, three players asked me independently who I think the best team in baseball is, but in each case, the question was really a statement -- about the Indians, and about their sheer depth and dominance.
They will go into October regarded by a large core of players and front-office types as the best team, because of the quality of their starting pitching, their bullpen (assuming that Andrew Miller is healthy) and the depth of their lineup.
But the Yankees seem to match up decently with the Indians in a lot of ways, and in a shorter five-game Division Series -- if the Yankees get past the Wild-Card Game of Chance -- New York could seemingly steal a series from the Indians.
Luis Severino can be dominant.
Sonny Gray is capable of throwing up zeroes against Cleveland.
Aaron Judge and Gary Sanchez could put up crooked numbers in a hurry.
The Yankees bullpen might be the deepest in baseball.
Indians-Cubs

The last time they faced off, these two teams produced one of the greatest games of all time in Game 7 of the 2016 World Series.
The Cubs have had a bumpy road in 2017, but if they advance through the NL bracket, they will regain their preeminence by the start of the World Series, and would have a chance at building another layer of history for their legacy: After a 108-year championship drought, the Cubs would be the NLs first back-to-back World Series winners since the Big Red Machine of the 1970s.
And for the Indians, it would be the organizations first title since 1948, baseballs longest current run of heartbreak.
By the time the World Series began, following three weeks of buildup and anticipation, this would be like baseballs version of Ali-Frazier II.
Astros-Indians

This could mean the possible ascension to the national stage for Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer.
Justin Verlander and Carlos Beltran would be looking for their first championship rings, and the story of the team and the city of Houston would merge.
Twins-Rockies

If the Twins and Rockies clinched playoff berths, won the wild-card games and then overcame their respective roster issues to get to the World Series, it would be the most remarkable and most unlikely of matchups.
David Ross explains why the Cubs' success as of late has earned them a spot in power rankings.
Tim Kurkjian and Ross explain what the Twins or Rockies could do if they make the postseason.
(1:28)

For me, the best example of the agonizing nature of baseball came in a 24-hour period last season, when the New York Mets put their fans through the most stressful of defeats and the most exhilarating of victories.
On Sept. 21, 2016, they blew a 3-0 lead to a Braves club that was 30 games under .500, completing a sweep by the worst team in the NL.
The game ended with Ender Inciarte robbing Yoenis Cespedes of a walk-off home run with as good a catch as you'll ever see.
I'd describe this (as I have before) as a Charlie Brown loss -- an "aaaaaugh!"
The next day, the Mets got one of the most amazing wins I've seen in 36 years of watching games, as they rallied from two runs down in the ninth inning to tie it on Jose Reyes' home run, then came back from two down in the 11th to beat the Phillies on Asdrubal Cabrera's mega-bat-flip, walk-off homer.
The Mets ended up making the playoffs by one game, and that game was the difference.
As Tim Kurkjian would say, "Circle that game!"
The purpose of this preamble was to apply it to this season, in which the race for the second NL wild-card spot has become highly compelling.
Let's see what qualifies as the "circle" and what represents the "aaaaugh!"
for each of the teams involved:

Aaaaugh!
Aug. 8 vs. Indians (4-1 loss)

The details: In fairness, if the Rockies blow this, their worst loss probably hasn't happened yet.
But we work with what we have.
This one was the second struggle and blown save in as many games for Rockies closer Greg Holland, who had basically been invincible all season to that point.
The Rockies led the Indians 1-0 in the ninth inning and had a chance to win a game in which they were throwing German Marquez against Cy Young contender Corey Kluber.
But Holland could not get the last out.
With two on and two out, Austin Jackson worked Holland eight pitches deep and placed the eighth into right center, just a hair from being caught by a diving Charlie Blackmon.
That plated the tying run.
Indians fans celebrating that moment and Rockies fans crushed by the heartbreak didnt have to wait long for the finish.
Yan Gomes hit Hollands next pitch over the fence in left-center for a walk-off home run.
Circle that game: June 18 vs. Giants (7-5 win)

Nolan Arenado's walk-off home run against the Giants in June kept the Rockies' hot streak going.
Chris Humphreys/USA Today Sports

The details: Nolan Arenado's MVP highlight reel probably starts and ends with this game, in which his walk-off, three-run home run not only won the game but also completed a cycle for the dynamic third baseman.
The win was the fifth of six straight for the Rockies and probably represented the point in their season when fans felt like this was going to be a magical year.
Aaaaugh!
Aug. 16 vs. Red Sox (5-4 loss)

The details: For the second time this season, the Cardinals took a 4-0 lead against the Red Sox and blew it.
They held a 4-2 lead in the ninth inning, one started by Trevor Rosenthal.
But after a home run by Xander Bogaerts and a walk to Mitch Moreland, Mike Matheny hooked Rosenthal for Zach Duke, who struck out Brock Holt but walked Jackie Bradley Jr.

That led to the entrance of John Brebbia, who got Eduardo Nunez to pop out.
But Brebbia couldnt get the last out.
He got ahead of Mookie Betts 1-2, couldnt get him to chase two sliders, then hung a slider that Betts hit off the Green Monster.
Tommy Pham played the ball off the wall well, and the relay from Paul DeJong to Yadier Molina was there in time, but Molina couldnt handle the hop, and that allowed Bradley to score the winning run.
Circle that game: Aug. 26 vs. Rays (6-4 win)

The details: Their best win came 10 days after their worst loss, and Pham (nearly a hero in defeat) got the best measure of validation on the offensive end.
First, he started a game-tying, two-run rally with an eighth-inning walk to help the Cardinals overcome a 4-2 deficit.
Then, in the bottom of the ninth, his two-run, walk-off home run prevented the Cardinals from falling below the .500 mark.
Pham, an unlikely star in 2017, won't win the MVP, but he has hit like an MVP late in games all season, and this was one of the best representations of that.
Aaaaugh(s)!
Sept. 20-22 vs. Pirates, Cubs (6-4, 5-3, 5-4 losses)

Things haven't gone so well for the Brewers since Corey Knebel's rough outing against the Pirates last week.
Photo by Justin Berl/Getty Images

The details: Everything was going so well for the Brewers.
They had won nine of 11, including back-to-back shutouts in the first two games of their series against the Pirates.
They had a 4-3 lead in the series finale with their closer, Corey Knebel, on the mound, fielding a weakly hit ball by David Freese.
Ever since Knebel threw that ball away, it has been "oof" after "oof" for the Brewers.
Adam Frazier beat Knebel with a walk-off home run the next inning.
The Brewers led the Cubs (whom they had swept earlier in the month) 3-2 in the ninth inning the next day and lost in 10 innings.
Then they blew a 3-0 lead and lost in 10 innings on Friday.
The Brewers could easily be right there with the Rockies, but theyve been on the wrong end of the fine line between victory and defeat.
Circle that game: Sept. 23 vs. Cubs (4-3 win)

The details: The Brewers are the closest thing to the 2016 Mets in terms of the immediate nature of the "aaaaugh!"
and the "circle" coming so close to each other.
Following their heartbreaking three-game skid, the Brewers rallied from a 3-2 deficit to tie it on Orlando Arcia's home run (the first blown save by Cubs closer Wade Davis this season).
Then they rallied again in the 10th inning, winning when team MVP Travis Shaw hit a walk-off, opposite-field home run off Davis.
Can the Brewers replicate the 2016 Mets and make the postseason because of that one victory?
Or will they be crushed by the weight of those "aaaaughs"?
We'll know the answer in a few days.
I'm not going to say the final week of the regular season will be anti-climactic, but there's a good chance the final week of the regular season will be anti-climactic.
Four teams have clinched division titles and the other two have better than 99 percent odds to win their divisions.
Meanwhile, the Minnesota Twins have pulled away from the dredge of mediocrity in the race for the second wild card in the American League, so that leaves the second wild card in the National League as the only playoff spot somewhat up for grabs.
At least it's a three-team chase, giving us one final opportunity for chaos.
Here's what to watch for in the final week ...

National League wild-card race

The Colorado Rockies are two games up on the Milwaukee Brewers and 2 up on the St. Louis Cardinals.
Here are the final-week schedules:

Rockies (84-72): Marlins (3), Dodgers (3)

Brewers (82-74): Reds (3), at Cardinals (3)

Cardinals (81-74): Cubs (4), Brewers (3)

FiveThirtyEight.com gives the Rockies a 75 percent chance at reaching the playoffs, the Brewers 14 percent and the Cardinals 10 percent.
Of course, we can still root for chaos and a three-way tie.
Here's how that can happen:

The Rockies go 2-4 against the Marlins and Dodgers.
The Brewers go 3-0 against the Reds and 1-2 against the Cardinals.
The Cardinals go 3-1 against the Cubs and 2-1 against the Brewers.
Somewhat reasonable, right?
So what happens if we get a three-way tie?
The rules:

Teams are given A, B and C designations.
Those rules are too long to list here, but you can read through them here.
The season series so far: the Rockies went 2-4 against the Cardinals and 4-3 against the Brewers, while the Brewers are 9-7 against the Cardinals.
Club A would host Club B, and the winner of that game would host Club C to determine the wild-card team.
Based on the above rules, the teams would be ranked by winning percentage: Assuming the Cardinals win two of three from the Brewers, they would be 13-12 against the other two clubs, the Brewers 13-13 and the Rockies 6-7.
The Cardinals would get first choice on their designation, the Brewers second and the Rockies third.
If I'm the Cardinals, I choose Club C. You have to play on the road, but you only have to win one game.
So we would end up with the Rockies at Brewers on Monday and the winner hosting the Cardinals on Tuesday.
Luckily, the NL wild-card game was already scheduled for Wednesday (with the AL on Tuesday).
Got it?
Me neither.
Magic numbers

Cubs: 2 to win NL Central

Red Sox: 3 to win AL East

Twins: 3 to clinch second wild card

Rockies: 5 to clinch second wild card

Home-field advantage

Cleveland Indians over Houston Astros for No.
1 seed in AL: 5

The other slots are essentially locked in, barring crazy stuff this week.
The Dodgers, Nationals and Cubs will be 1-2-3 in the NL and the Red Sox will be the No.
3 seed in the AL.
The Yankees and Diamondbacks will host the wild-card games.
For overall best record, the Dodgers are 99-57 and the Indians 98-58.
The Dodgers won the season series 2-1, so if they finish with the same record and meet in the World Series, the Dodgers would have home-field advantage.
Got it?
Worst overall record

It's a fight to the finish.
While there doesn't appear to be a Bryce Harper-Stephen Strasburg obvious No.
1 pick at this point in next year's draft, if you're bad, you may as well hope to finish with the worst record.
Four teams have a chance:

Giants: 61-95

Tigers: 62-94

Phillies: 62-94

White Sox: 63-92

Detroit has really gone in the tank with a 4-20 record in September.
The Tigers finish with a road trip to Kansas City and Minnesota, so maybe they'll pull this out.
They last drafted first overall in 1997, when they took pitcher Matt Anderson out of Rice (who didn't even end up as the best first-round pick that year from Rice, as Lance Berkman went 16th).
American League MVP race

It's back on, right?
With 11 home runs and 23 RBIs in his past 19 games, Aaron Judge has climbed back on the heels of Jose Altuve.
Their WAR totals entering Sunday (and Judge's will be a couple tenths higher at least after hitting his 47th and 48th home runs):

Baseball-Reference: Altuve 8.2, Judge 7.1

FanGraphs: Altuve 7.2, Judge 7.0

Jose Ramirez is probably third behind those two, and don't ignore Corey Kluber or Chris Sale.
Mike Trout, with a mediocre September and a lengthy DL stint, has probably dropped out of the top three.
Judge leads Altuve in both runs and RBIs, which in the minds of some voters will cancel out Altuve's edge in WAR.
Altuve is probably still the favorite, but how awesome is this sport that the biggest hitter in the game and the shortest are the leading MVP candidates?
National League MVP

A couple of little things have changed from last week.
Giancarlo Stanton did have a big week with three home runs and 13 RBIs and is now tied with Nolan Arenado for the RBI lead.
That helps Stanton, but Arenado can still help himself by doing something big as the Rockies make the playoffs.
I still say it's between those two and Paul Goldschmidt.
I think the advantage Stanton has is that most voters will put him in the top three.
Arenado or Goldschmidt may end up with more first-place votes, but also more down-ballot votes.
It's going to be a tight vote no matter what.
Cy Young races

Clayton Kershaw and Max Scherzer both pitched (and won) on Sunday, so they'll each have a final tune-up start before the playoffs.
The numbers (WAR totals before Sunday's starts):

Player Record IP Walks Strikeouts ERA bWAR fWAR Clayton Kershaw 18-4 171 30 200 2.21 4.3 4.5 Max Scherzer 16-6 191.1 54 263 2.54 6.6 5.6

Zack Greinke blew any chance he had by giving up eight runs in his last start.
And, hey, Gio Gonzalez actually leads in Baseball-Reference WAR at 6.9 with a 2.68 ERA.
His peripherals aren't in the class of Kershaw or Scherzer, so he's a distant third at best.
Scherzer has the edge over Kershaw in WAR, Kershaw has the edge in wins and ERA.
In 26 more innings, Scherzer has allowed 16 more runs, so the extra innings he has pitched haven't been that valuable.
One note about Scherzer.
Due in part to the soft NL East, just eight of his 30 starts have come against winning teams.
Kershaw has faced winning teams in 12 of his 26 outings.
Who do you have?
We've talked about the AL race enough.
With another gem on Sunday, I think Kluber has locked it up, even though Sale reached 300 strikeouts this past week.
Playoff rotations

Some teams won't make an official announcement on their playoff rotation until the dead time between the end of the regular season and the start of the division series, but you can kind of get an idea by looking at how the rotations line up throughout the week.
The Cubs, for example, have Jon Lester going on Monday and Jake Arrieta on Tuesday, followed by John Lackey, Kyle Hendricks and Jose Quintana.
That would seem to suggest Lester, with his history of October success, is still the No.
1 guy, even though he has been the team's worst starter this month.
Of course, the Cubs would have four days off from the final Sunday until the division series starts on the following Friday, so that group could be rearranged in any manner.
As far as potential wild-card game starters, Arizona will probably line up Greinke, who starts Wednesday, giving him six days of rest before the wild-card game.
Likewise, Jon Gray starts Wednesday for the Rockies.
The Brewers are without injured ace Jimmy Nelson, but have 17-game winner Zach Davies going Tuesday and Sunday as they scramble to catch the Rockies.
That could leave Chase Anderson for the wild-card game.
The Cardinals have ace Carlos Martinez going Tuesday and Sunday as well, so that would point to Lance Lynn or Michael Wacha in the wild-card game.
(And none of that gets into potential tie-breaker scenarios.)
Batting titles

Yes, it's OK to still care about batting titles.
Altuve has a 17-point lead in the AL, so he's going to win his third title.
In the NL -- don't be shocked here -- Charlie Blackmon leads Justin Turner, .326 to .321.
Blackmon also finishes with six games at home, where he has hit .387 this season.
He'd be the fourth different Rockies player in five seasons to win a batting title (DJ LeMahieu, Justin Morneau, Michael Cuddyer), sixth different since 2007 (Carlos Gonzalez, Matt Holliday) and ninth different in Rockies history, which only goes back to 1993 (three-time winner Larry Walker, Todd Helton, Andres Galarraga).
If you want to win a batting title, go play for the Rockies.
Injuries

Bryce Harper could return to the Nationals' lineup for the first time since he suffered a bone bruise in his left knee since slipping on a wet base while running out a grounder Aug. 12.
Manager Dusty Baker said the team is "still trying to make up our minds."
Will he be well-rested after his stint on the DL and team bonding on "Game of Thrones" trip?
Or will the rust of not playing show in the playoffs?
You'll have to watch to find out.
CANTON, Mass.
-- When the Boston Celtics wrapped up their media day chores on Monday afternoon, players boarded two oversized yellow buses -- think supersized school buses with Wi-Fi and comfy seats -- and headed south for Tuesday's first day of class at Salve Regina University in Newport, Rhode Island.
The goal of this rare, three-day training camp field trip: Find Ubuntu -- or, well, something like it.
It has been 10 years since the last time the Celtics acquired two All-Stars in an offseason.
In the summer of 2007, president of basketball operations Danny Ainge impossibly turned a quartet of defiant pingpong balls into Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett.
The Celtics and that Big Three -- Garnett and Allen joining forces with Paul Pierce -- trekked to Rome that October, and the team embraced Ubuntu (a philosophy in which the collective success of a group is prioritized over an individual) after coach Doc Rivers preached its powers.
Boston players used that European adventure to bond.
The Celtics' starting five, including Rajon Rondo and Kendrick Perkins, all shaved their heads on the trip, and a brotherhood was forged.
You probably can remember what happened from there: The Celtics won 66 games and navigated a fascinating postseason run that culminated with raising Banner 17 after besting the rival Los Angeles Lakers in six games.
Celtics coach Brad Stevens need not pack any shears for Newport (no way anyone is getting near Gordon Hayward's perfect locks).
Seventy-two hours spent 72 miles south of the team's home base is unlikely to have the same impact as that 2007 trek overseas.
But for noted homebody Stevens, the fact that the Celtics are uprooting even for a few days speaks volumes about his desire to force his new-look roster into situations in which players must interact and build the bonds that are so vital to team success in the NBA.
Gordon Hayward, Al Horford and Kyrie Irving could use some days away to reset the summer and be ready for a new season.
AP Photo/Steven Senne

What the Celtics did this summer is unprecedented.
No team that led its conference in wins the previous season has ever returned four players or fewer in league history, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
Boston's returning quartet includes only Al Horford, Marcus Smart, Jaylen Brown and Terry Rozier.
Smart, the No.
6 pick in the 2014 draft, is Boston's longest-tenured player after the roster teardown.
"That's still a shock to me," said Smart.
"I'm 23 years old and you guys are calling me the longest-tenured Celtic.
I never in a million years would have thought about that."
Or as Terry Rozier III (the Roman numerals added to his jersey this offseason) more bluntly put it: "To remain on the Celtics after a tornado happened is crazy."
To sign Hayward to a max contract, changes were necessary.
Familiar faces such as Avery Bradley and Kelly Olynyk were lost to make a free-agent splash.
It turned out that was only a warm-up act, as Ainge dropped jaws around the NBA by dealing Isaiah Thomas, Jae Crowder, Ante Zizic, the Brooklyn Nets' 2018 first-round pick and the Miami Heat's 2020 second-round pick to Cleveland in exchange for Kyrie Irving.
The Celtics have 12 new faces, including six players who have never played an NBA game, if you include their two rookies on two-way, G League contracts.
For all the big splashes at the top of the roster, the bench is unproven and uncertain at best.
On Monday, on a soundstage inside a gigantic TV/film warehouse in suburban Boston, Boston's newest big three of Irving, Hayward and Horford playfully mugged for group photos.
There are obvious questions.
Can Irving be a leader outside of LeBron James' shadow?
Can Hayward continue to evolve like he did throughout his time in Utah?
But the big question as the Celtics prepared to open camp with their first two-a-day session on Tuesday morning: How long will it take Boston's star trio to develop chemistry on the court?
"We just have to be very patient with this, and I speak on that pretty often," said Irving.
"It's not trying to figure out one thing or two things in one day or after one game, it's going to come in wave.
These ups and downs, what we're about to face as a team and as a collective group, it's going to be very interesting.
It'll really echo in terms of our identity and how we respond."
It's jarring how the identity of these Celtics has changed in the four months since their season ended with a loss to Irving's former team in the Eastern Conference finals.
Boston was a spunky, overachieving group of blue-collar workers headlined by former second-round picks such as Crowder and Thomas.
Now they're stocked with former high-lottery selections, and there's an expectation of success.
ESPN's Basketball Power Index projects Boston to win an East-best 54 games, finishing ahead of the Cleveland Cavaliers, and currently gives the Celtics the best chance of meeting the Golden State Warriors in the NBA Finals.
It's easy to understand why big things are expected from Boston.
And yet no computer algorithm can truly account for the growing pains the team will most certainly endure.
That's where Newport can help, at least a little bit.
And so will the countless practices and walkthroughs at the team's typical practice facility.
These Celtics don't have to find Ubuntu over the next three days, but if they can forge a friendship or two, at least they won't have to wear nametags by the end of the week.
A desire to figure this thing out might ultimately be the best bonding agent of all.
Ainge pointed out how, even after acquiring Thomas midseason during the 2014-15 campaign, the Celtics were able to jell quickly and surge to the playoffs in part because of how much the players on that team wanted to win.
He feels a similar vibe with this group.
"Obviously, there was some talented players, but there was a hunger from each of the players that I think is sometimes underestimated," said Ainge.
"Obviously, it's gonna take time for Brad to figure out who plays best with each other and so forth, but I think that enthusiasm, that excitement that each one of our players has right now is unique and special, and we have some very special, talented players.
I think that can sometimes make up for the continuity.
"Although I will say the longer they play together, the better they should get."
Stevens, ever patient in his approach, recognizes that he won't have his desired "institutional knowledge" to lean on early this year.
"I think that one of the biggest challenges for anybody in this, in coaching or in playing, is that you want it to happen tomorrow," said Stevens.
"We're going to figure each other out.
And we've gotta be smart about not overdoing it.
"As I watch tape and film from last year of our team, there were a lot of plays that were made instinctively out of kind of a knowledge of each other.
And we're going to have to build and grow.
And it takes some time.
But everybody seems to be onboard, excited and ready to roll with trying to make it as good as it can be as quickly as it can be."
Dak Prescott fakes the handoff and darts 10 yards before going airborne for a touchdown to draw the Cowboys even with the Cardinals.
(0:45)

GLENDALE, Ariz. -- Dak Prescott has had better games, statistically speaking, since becoming the Dallas Cowboys' quarterback.
He has tossed more touchdowns in a game.
He has completed more passes and thrown for more yards.
Mondays 28-17 win against the Arizona Cardinals might have been Prescotts hardest game, and it definitely can be considered his most satisfying.
With folks waiting to see how he and Ezekiel Elliott would respond to the worst defeat of their young careers -- a 42-17 loss last week against the Broncos in Denver -- they answered the call, especially Prescott.
Dak Prescott gave the Cowboys a lift with his arm and his legs, including scoring their first touchdown on a 10-yard run.
Mark J. Rebilas-USA TODAY Sports

"Last week, we got hit in the mouth pretty good," Prescott said in a postgame interview with ESPN's Lisa Salters.
"It was important for us to come back this week, prepare the right way and do the things that we needed to do to get a win tonight."
Prescott did just that, scoring the Cowboys first touchdown by somersaulting over two Arizona defenders on a 10-yard run in the second quarter, after Dallas got off to a dreadful start offensively.
"Dak was an animal today," Elliott said.
"He came out there and made some big plays.
Sometimes he has to use his feet to get out of the pocket to make those downfield throws, but he played amazing."
In the third quarter, he found Dez Bryant for a 15-yard touchdown, after Bryant ran by and through a number of defenders before receiving a final push from center Travis Frederick at the goal line.
In the fourth quarter, Prescott made the most of a busted play with a 39-yard, off-balance throw to Brice Butler, who outjumped Justin Bethel in the end zone and, more importantly, completed the process of the catch all the way to the ground.
After the Cardinals cut the Cowboys lead to 21-17 with 6:35 to play, and with most everybody expecting the Cowboys to lean on Elliott, Prescott rolled right on a bootleg and found Butler again for a 53-yard gain.
Elliott ended that drive with an 8-yard run for his first touchdown of the year.
What you need to know in the NFL

 Statistics

 Scoreboard

 2017 schedule, results

 Standings

None of this was easy on Monday.
None of it has been easy for the Cowboys' offense through the first three games.
The New York Giants, Denver Broncos and Cardinals have three of the league's better defenses.
The Cowboys have seen some premier cornerbacks in Janoris Jenkins; Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr.; and Patrick Peterson.
They have seen the past two 3-4 defenses stack the line so much that Elliott has had to run against not only eight-man boxes, but also nine-man fronts.
But on Monday, Prescott made the plays with his legs and his arms, finishing with 183 yards on 13 of 18 passing.
He ran for 17 yards and bought time on a number of pass plays.
"When you play quarterback and things don't go well again and again and again, it's hard to get into rhythm," coach Jason Garrett said.
"Sometimes you start forcing things and I just think his mental toughness is off the charts.
Throughout the ballgame, things didn't come easily to us.
He just kept battling.
He kept making good decisions."
And Elliott was able to grind his way to 80 yards on 22 carries, after being held to eight yards on nine carries against the Broncos.
Fifty of Elliotts yards came on two carries.
The Cowboys dont want to live with every yard being a fight as the season goes on, but hard wins are often the most satisfying.
Life is good for Sgt.
Ivan Sears.
This year alone, he was named a co-captain of the United States team for the 2017 Invictus Games in Toronto, he married Sarah Wallace and he welcomed Ellie Rose Sears to the world.
And now he's making his very first visit to Canada to compete in -- let's see -- the 100 meters, the 200 meters, the 400 meters and the 1,500 meters in wheelchair racing, as well as rowing and rugby.
"I just love to compete," he says.
Almost exactly seven years ago, Sears nearly lost his life when he stepped on an improvised explosive device while serving with the Marines in Marjah, Afghanistan.
As he would later write, "At that moment, time froze and I saw dirt fly up and felt myself flying up in the air.
Finally landing in the hole that was made from the explosion, I lost my legs right away.
From there, my friends pulled me out of the hole and helped stop the bleeding.
... Fifteen minutes later, the bird came."
Congratulations to Sgt.
Ivan Sears for being selected as the Male Marine Athlete of the Year for the Marine Corps!
pic.twitter.com/yJzse20Wpq  USMC WWR (@USMCWWR) February 5, 2015

The helicopter flew him to a nearby hospital, and five days later he was back in the States for treatment of his wounds and rehabilitation -- he had also suffered two broken hips, hearing loss and hand injuries.
Meanwhile, back in Albuquerque, New Mexico, his family was devastated.
"I was in the Marines for 21 years," says his father, Robert, now a deputy sheriff in Bernalillo County.
"Retired as a gunnery sergeant.
We're a military family going back to my great-grandfather.
We know the dangers.
But this news hit us hard, real hard."
There's a YouTube clip from a local news show of Ivan's homecoming a few months later -- 3,000 people came to the Albuquerque airport to greet him when he interrupted his rehab in San Antonio, Texas, to attend his sister's bat mitzvah.
Still learning to walk on his prosthetic legs, he looked frail and overwhelmed.
When asked his thoughts by a TV reporter, he replied, "Amazing."
But the really amazing part was still to come.
As so often happens with wounded warriors, Sears had to come to grips with his new reality.
"A chaplain friend had warned me," says his father.
"He said, 'Thoughts of suicide aren't an if.
They're a when.'"
As Ivan admits, "I was in a dark place at one point.
I didn't want to leave my room or do anything, just stay there, watch TV and be lazy."
He hadn't been much of an athlete in high school.
"JROTC was Ivan's sport," says his father.
"He wanted to be a Marine ever since he was a boy."
Ivan joined the Corps in October of 2008 at age 18.
After boot camp, infantry training and a spell at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, he was deployed to Afghanistan in 2010.
He took shrapnel in his leg and forearm in September of that year but soon returned to his unit.
Then on Oct. 7, he stepped on the IED.
One thing about the Marine Corps is you're always surrounded by people who care about you.
Just as friends pulled Ivan out of that hole in Marjah, other wounded warriors at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, encouraged him to get out into the world and give sports a try.
"I was given a choice," says Ivan.
"Stay in grief, or get over it.
I was given a sense of purpose."
He was introduced to rowing first, and then to wheelchair racing.
By 2012, he was racing in competitions.
At the Warrior Games in Colorado Springs in 2014, he won his first gold medal in the 1,500 meters.
"That first one felt so great," says Ivan.
"I wanted more."
Ivan Sears will be competing at the 2017 Invictus Games in wheelchair racing, rowing and rugby.
Courtesy Ivan Sears

Sears has stayed in the Marines and now works with the families of wounded warriors at the Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio.
And he's snagged more gold medals.
At the 2016 Invictus Games in Orlando, Florida, he won four wheelchair races: the 100, 200, 400 and 1,500.
If you watch wheelchair racing at this high level, you're struck not only by the hand and arm strength of the competitors, but also by their aerodynamic stillness and tactical intelligence.
You'll also find yourself in awe of the engineering and maintenance it must take to make those chairs fly around the track.
"Just like a car, you have to worry about the tires and the rims," says Ivan.
"Gloves are important, too."
In order to maintain his own body, Ivan works out religiously: cardio, weights, exercises to strengthen his core.
He has his duties as a sergeant and new responsibilities as a husband and father, but "somehow I find the time."
His father and sister Natasha will be in Toronto to see him compete and keep the other members of his devoted family apprised of how he does.
"I am so proud of him," says Robert.
"He got through the darkness, and he is representing his country and the Marines.
Maybe not in the way we all first envisioned when we joined the Marines, but in a way that shows people the meaning of patriotism.
It's not just him I'm proud of, either.
It's all the wounded warriors.
"When we old Marines get together, you often hear about how much tougher we were than these young guys.
That's baloney.
The moral compass of Ivan's generation is as true as ours.
Their courage is as strong as ours.
You see that at the Invictus Games."
Once upon a time, a skinny, overwhelmed kid came home to figure out what he was going to do with the rest of his life without his legs.
When you look at Ivan Sears now, a confident, strapping athlete, Marine and family man, you realize the power of sports.
"They saved me," he says.
As his father says, "We got our son back -- and a baby granddaughter."
Since 1994, the golf world has regularly gathered to field-test a question: How would top golfers from everywhere but Europe fare against the best of the U.S.?
Answer: not well!
In 11 Presidents Cups, the U.S. has won nine, lost one and tied one, when in 2003 the team simultaneously ran out of sunlight and the desire to see the internationals lose again.
Another exercise in sanctioned jingoism is slated for Sept. 28 to Oct. 1 at an almost aggressively patriotic site, New Jersey's Liberty National Golf Course.
There, with a fine view of the Statue of Liberty, the U.S. will be favored to triumph for a seventh straight time.
But will it?
We put that question to our own favorite test -- a metric test.
NOT IN PHIL'S HOUSE

Say this for the Presidents Cup -- it's less-bad TV than it used to be.
While three of the first four Cups were blowouts, recent ones have actually been semicompetitive.
But through it all, one constant remains: the ironclad U.S. home-course advantage.
Credit the Yanks' 6-0 home record to overserved fans, friendly setups or familiar layouts (like Liberty National, where 12-time Cup-man Phil Mickelson is a member).
But no matter the reason, there's no denying the U.S. is a downright hostile nation for visiting golfers.
TELLING NUMBER: 5.2 -- The average winning margin of U.S. teams at home -- compared with an average margin of 0.2 abroad.
Team winning margin

AMERICA'S GREAT, AGAIN

Another bulletproof correlation: roster strength.
This might seem intuitive.
(The better team wins?
But non-stroke-play formats are supposed to mitigate the talent gap -- and they don't.
Plotting each roster against the average world rank of prior Cup players (23.2) shows that after 1998, no below-average international team has won, and no above-average U.S. team has lost.
Indeed, every U.S. team at least 30 percent stronger than average has won by at least three points.
This year's U.S. team: 32 percent above average.
The internationals: 41 percent below.
Game over!
TELLING NUMBER: 15.7 -- The average world rank of the 2017 U.S. players, 17 spots higher than that of your tired, your poor, your Team International (32.7).
Roster strength, percentage above/below average
Team captains Steve Stricker and Nick Price look ahead to the 2017 Presidents Cup while at a lighting ceremony in celebration of the event at New York's Empire State Building.
(1:40)

JERSEY CITY, N.J. -- Can the Americans extend their streak of Presidents Cup victories to seven in a row?
Or maybe the International team will notch its first win this century?
ESPN.com's golf experts weigh in on what to expect in the week ahead at Liberty National Golf Club for the 12th playing of the Presidents Cup.
U.S. MVP

ESPN.com senior golf writer Bob Harig: Patrick Reed.
After a quiet year as an individual, Reed is ready to break out.
He loves the team competitions, and expect more success out of him with partner Jordan Spieth.
Editor's Picks Presidents Cup tournament schedule, scores and coverage Get news coverage, analysis and scores on ESPN for the 12th edition of the Presidents Cup at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Stricker: No silent protests from U.S. golf team U.S. captain Steve Stricker says his team has decided it won't stage any silent protests as the Presidents Cup begins this week.
Confident Berger custom fit for match play Daniel Berger, who tees it up in his first pro team competition at the Presidents Cup, oozes with confidence.
That character trait will serve him well this week at Liberty National.
2 Related

ESPN.com senior golf writer Jason Sobel: Dustin Johnson.
For all the attention on Jordan Spieth, Justin Thomas and even last year's hero, Patrick Reed, the world's No.
1-ranked player is still DJ -- and he'll assert that role this week.
ESPN.com senior golf editor Kevin Maguire: Jordan Spieth.
A 5-0 week might be a bold prediction for the three-time major champion, but anything less than 3 points would come as a surprise given this is his third Presidents Cup and he's only 24 years old.
International MVP

Harig: Adam Scott.
A veteran of seven International teams, Scott is tired of the losing.
It's time he carried the team on his back.
Sobel: Branden Grace.
Two years ago, Grace went 5-0 in an impressive individual performance.
That success might not be sustainable, but expect continued strong play here.
Maguire: Jason Day.
The Aussie went 0-5 in the 2015 Presidents Cup in South Korea and clearly wants to contribute more to the team.
He's in solid form of late, posting three top-10s in his past five starts, and he's ready to take a larger leadership role inside the ropes this week.
U.S. breakout player

Harig: Justin Thomas.
This is his first team competition for the United States as a pro, but does anyone expect him to act or play like a rookie?
Nobody won more money on the PGA Tour this year than Justin Thomas, but this week's Presidents Cup marks his first time representing the United States as a pro in a team competition.
Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports

Sobel: Daniel Berger.
According to his teammates, nobody is more pumped to compete than Berger, who has the confidence and moxie necessary to succeed in match play.
Maguire: Kevin Kisner.
PGA Tour watchers last week will have noticed that he "snuck" up to see his Georgia Bulldogs play on the Saturday night of the Tour Championship.
This week, they'll see the competitive streak that will leave fans wondering how he hasn't been on one of these Cup teams before now.
International breakout player

Harig: Hideki Matsuyama.
The Japanese star has struggled since the PGA Championship, but this is his third Presidents Cup and he's ready to be a force.
Sobel: Emiliano Grillo.
None other than Spieth calls the Argentinian one of the world's best ball strikers.
If he's on his game, he's going to be tough to beat.
Maguire: Grillo.
When he stands on the first tee for his opening match, he might feel the nerves, but it won't be because the likes of Jordan Spieth or Justin Thomas are standing across from him.
Grillo played with these major champions in his junior golf days, so he won't be intimidated by their presence.
U.S. team wins if ...

Harig: ... it does what is always does, which is never let up.
The Americans have led after every session going back to 2005.
Sobel: ... everything goes according to plan, the three pods of foursomes all mesh well, and a few of its back-of-the-roster players step up when needed most.
Maguire: ... the top American players aren't burned out from a long FedEx Cup playoffs schedule and can play up to their world rankings.
On paper, this should be a Team USA rout, but that's not always how these things play out.
International team wins if ...

Harig: ... it gets some strong performances from players near the bottom of the lineup, a regular sore spot.
The team usually has its depth exposed, but if Emiliano Grillo, Adam Hadwin and Anirban Lahiri come through, then all of a sudden the matches take on a different look.
Sobel: ... the U.S. team (which had 11 players competing last week) looks tired and three-time captain Nick Price outmaneuvers American counterpart Steve Stricker with his strategic decisions.
Maguire: ... its last few automatic qualifiers, as well as the captain's picks, produce winning records.
Each team expects its top-ranked players to pick up points, but it's often left to the lesser-known names who seal the deal for a victory.
JERSEY CITY, N.J. -- "What are we playing for?"
the precocious 13-year-old asked the golf professional who'd just finished a competitive playing career.
Matt Doyle had only met Daniel Berger minutes earlier.
Daniel's father, Jay Berger, had recently moved their family due north in South Florida, from Key Biscayne to Jupiter, and needed some help.
Jay had always been a tennis guy.
He was once the seventh-ranked male player in the world, a doubles partner of Andre Agassi, a three-time ATP champion, two-time Davis Cup team member and a man who would become the United States Olympic coach.
Golf was out of his realm of expertise, but Daniel had taken a keen interest in the game.
Rather than attempt to transfer his tennis wisdom onto the second-oldest of his four children, Jay sought a proper instructor.
He'd heard about Doyle from Ivan Lendl, a mutual friend who'd morphed from the world's best tennis player into an excellent golfer.
So Jay brought Daniel to The Dye Preserve, where Doyle was working as an assistant pro.
"I watched him hit for maybe five or 10 minutes," Doyle recalls.
"I didn't even say anything, I just watched.
You could tell he had the hand-eye coordination.
He knew what he was doing."
Doyle wanted to see whether he could bring it to the course, so he asked Daniel to join him for 18 holes.
That's when the 13-year-old kid asked about the stakes.
Part of the heralded high school class of 2011, Daniel Berger owns two PGA Tour wins and will make his professional team competition debut this week at the Presidents Cup.
Brett Davis-USA TODAY Sports

The pro bemusedly deferred, knowing he was only months removed from chasing his own PGA Tour dream.
Daniel made a suggestion.
"Let's play a $20 closeout," he said.
"Are you good with that?"
Doyle countered.
Already a scratch-handicap needler, the kid poked back.
"Are you good with losing to a 13-year-old?"
The 13-year-old didn't win the match, but he did win a lot more.
Daniel holed out for an eagle on the back nine, broke 70 and immediately got the attention of his opponent -- and new boss.
When they finished, Doyle told Jay that he needed someone to pick the range during late afternoons.
If Daniel would do that, he was free to practice and play at the facility anytime he wanted.
Not bad for a kid who'd taken up the game only two years earlier.
At some point this week, as Daniel follows in the family footsteps by representing the U.S. in a team competition, playing in his first Presidents Cup, Jay will remember that first round they shared together.
Daniel was 11 at the time, and they'd traveled to Daytona Beach on a tennis trip.
Father and son each took a golf lesson, then hit the links.
Once they'd finished, Daniel told his dad that he wanted to be a professional golfer someday.
Then he asked him a question.
"How many hours a day do you practice for tennis?"
"I practice five hours a day," Jay told him, thinking that might be enough to scare him away from the idea.
"OK," replied Daniel.
"Then I'm going to practice eight hours a day."
Jay loves telling this story today, punctuating the kicker.
"On my life," he says, "he practiced eight hours a day, every single day that summer."
The hard work has clearly paid off.
Still more than six months shy of his 25th birthday, Daniel Berger is already a two-time PGA Tour champion, four-time runner-up and part of the Class of 2011 high school graduates, along with Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas, a group that is taking the golf world by storm.
"The first thing I told my dad when I turned pro is, 'I want to play for money.'
I didn't want to play for these crystal trophies.
I mean, they're cool and all, but I wanted to get paid.
I knew if I did the right things, I could."
Daniel Berger

It was all spawned during those formative years, which he spent honing his swing at The Dye Preserve -- and playing money matches against some of the club's big-name professionals.
In particular, Steve Marino became a regular foil.
At the time, Marino was a thriving PGA Tour member, posting 18 top-10 finishes between 2007 and 2010.
When he was home, though, he could often be found hanging at the course with young Berger.
"I was like 14 years old, just this little s---," Berger recalls.
"I don't give Steve enough credit for taking me under his wing.
I think I just had this f--- you attitude, where even though he was top-30 in the world, I was like, 'Dude, I'm going to beat you right now.'
He might have seen some of himself in me."
Doyle remembers the first time Berger beat Marino in a match.
They'd played nine holes, and the kid broke par to finally win.
"It was at least a few hundred bucks," Doyle says.
"He was like, 'I told you I could beat him.'"
The next day, Marino got his revenge.
Instead of money, he took the kid's brand-new iPod.
It was all part of the learning process.
If you don't like losing, he soon understood, then you'd better win instead.
Berger wasn't just talent and motivated.
He was self-sufficient.
Two days after getting his driver's license at 16, he drove six hours to Jacksonville to play in a tournament, then drove home afterward.
Upon high school graduation, he played for two years at Florida State before realizing it was stalling his evolution as a golfer.
"A lot of things that we did in college weren't the things you can do to be a top-tier athlete," he says.
"You can't go out and drink four nights a week, you can't eat McDonald's, you can't lift heavy weights.
I had the knowledge of what it takes to be a professional athlete.
I knew that if I wanted to be a professional, I needed to change the way I was doing things."
Not long after Spieth turned pro in late 2012, Berger followed.
The kid who'd always been so independent was ready to embark on a professional career.
"The first thing I told my dad when I turned pro is, 'I want to play for money.'
I didn't want to play for these crystal trophies.
I mean, they're cool and all, but I wanted to get paid.
I knew if I did the right things, I could."
A professional golfer who lacks confidence probably won't be a professional golfer very long.
Some, though, exude the trait more than others, oozing confidence from their pores.
Consider Berger among this group.
Editor's Picks Presidents Cup tournament schedule, scores and coverage Get news coverage, analysis and scores on ESPN for the 12th edition of the Presidents Cup at Liberty National Golf Club in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Numbers don't lie: Why the U.S. will win the Presidents Cup Every two years, the Presidents Cup pits the U.S. against the world.
And every two years, history repeats itself.
Team USA Presidents Cup roster Ten players automatically qualified on Monday for the United States Presidents Cup team, including major champions Dustin Johnson, Brooks Koepka, Jordan Spieth and Justin Thomas.
2 Related

"You have to have a really strong belief in yourself," he admits.
"I do, because I've put in the work and done everything I can to be successful."
Asked whether the lines are blurred between his confidence and cockiness, he acquiesces.
"A little bit.
I tend to think I'm pretty good at things I'm not good at.
I think I can beat Matt Kuchar in pingpong.
Deep down, I know I can't.
But I keep telling him I'm going to beat his ass.
If that's cocky, then yeah, I'm cocky."
Not that there's anything wrong with that.
"He's always been that way," acknowledges Brooks Koepka, his teammate for one year at Florida State and again on this year's Presidents Cup team.
"But if you're not cocky, there's something wrong with you.
Everybody out here is confident and thinks they're the best.
That's what he thinks -- and he should."
Last year, Berger was battling Phil Mickelson for the title in Memphis -- the same Mickelson who at the time was twice his age and owned 42 career PGA Tour victories to his zero.
While the acerbic lefthander ribbed his young peer for claiming the Rookie of the Year title without winning a tournament, Berger punched right back, referring to him formally as "Philip."
"He says only his wife calls him that," Berger said on Saturday of that week.
"I can't call him that until I win on the PGA Tour."
The next day, he won.
Those old recollections of losing cash and surrendering his iPod still ring true for Berger.
If there's a criticism of this era's growing group of 20-something superstars, it's that PGA Tour riches might have forced a complacency that never developed in previous generations.
That notion can be easily argued, of course, and Berger is doing his part to prove that anything other than winning is an unsatisfactory option.
"If I finish 10th, I'm pissed at a 10th-place finish," he says.
"If I finish fifth, I'm pissed at a fifth-place finish."
One of the most memorable moments from this summer's golf schedule occurred at the Travelers Championship.
On the first hole of a playoff, Spieth holed a bunker shot for birdie, airborne rakes and wedges prompting pandemonium among the raucous gallery.
Often forgotten is the fact that once decorum was restored, Berger nearly drained his own 35-foot birdie attempt.
"He put beautiful speed on it," Spieth sighed afterward.
"At about the halfway point, I'm like, 'Is he really going to make this?'"
As Thomas explains of Berger, "He hates to lose.
He's told me before, he hates losing to me and he doesn't like it when we're playing well, because he wants to beat us.
It takes a man to admit that."
Jay Berger insists he never pressured his son to become a professional golfer, never had to implore him to work harder or practice more.
He does, though, take some indirect credit for Daniel's competitive desire.
"I think his genetic makeup is to be a competitor," Jay says.
"I think he has a very healthy relationship with competing.
That's the way he was brought up.
It was never about the winning -- it was about the process behind it, trying to get better."
Berger's confidence, cockiness and full array of moxie will be on display this week, as he competes for the red, white and blue for his first time as a pro.
It's a feeling his father already knows, a legacy being passed down from one generation to the next.
Now he'll finally get a taste of what he's wanted for so long.
"I've got chills just thinking about it," Berger says.
"I love to have teammates that rely on you, and I love to rely on teammates.
For me, this is the pinnacle.
Team golf, it can't get any better."
LAS VEGAS, Nevada -- Goaltender Marc-Andre Fleury is curious.
"No wires?
He just floats?"
The three-time Stanley Cup champion is already the face of the NHL's expansion Vegas Golden Knights.
As he transitions to life in Las Vegas, he has questions for teammate Reilly Smith, who recently attended "Criss Angel Mindfreak Live," the Vegas spectacle in which the master illusionist appears to float through the air.
"They were going around showing there are no wires.
But there's a trick to everything," Smith said with a healthy hint of skepticism.
"Some of the tricks were too fast.
You can't appreciate it."
Editor's Picks Marc-Andre Fleury: Vegas 'will be competitive for many years' In a Q&A, the expansion Golden Knights' first goalie explains how he's adjusting to life in Las Vegas, what he'll miss most about Pittsburgh, what he has learned about wine and which "Game of Thrones" character would be a good NHL backstop.
Golden Knights dominant in preseason opener Tyler Wong recorded a hat trick, including the first preseason goal in Golden Knights history, as the NHL's newest team clocked the Canucks 9-4 on Sunday night.
Golden Rush: Vegas stakes its claim to the West Goalie Calvin Pickard was among the Golden Knights' players who set off in search of adventure -- and some new fans -- as the NHL's expansion team sought to drum up interest, engage with its new community and help grow hockey in Idaho and Montana.
2 Related

Welcome to Vegas Golden Knights training camp, where the locker-room chatter inevitably turns to restaurants, golf, nightlife and, yes, magic as players adapt to their new surroundings.
In the meantime, Sin City is avidly anticipating a new era in its already-colorful history, which begins Tuesday night when the Golden Knights host the Los Angeles Kings for the new franchise's inaugural preseason home game in T-Mobile Arena.
The excitement has been palpable since the team started camp.
"You head to the grocery store, you'll see a bunch of Vegas Golden Knights T-shirts around.
People are just talking about it.
This is exciting," said Vegas defenseman Nate Schmidt, who could barely contain his ear-to-ear grin.
"It's a great time for us to have a team here.
You can just feel the buzz when you walk into the rink or walk out of practice."
From the opening day of training camp, fans began filling City National Arena, the brand new practice facility located roughly 15 miles from the Vegas Strip, just to watch the team skate.
Demand was so high that fans had to reserve places at practice using an online RSVP system.
Mackenzie River, the restaurant inside the facility, has already been packed for preseason road-game viewing parties.
Las Vegas finally has its own major professional team after years of making do with minor league baseball's Las Vegas 51s, the ECHL's Las Vegas Wranglers, the XFL's Las Vegas Outlaws and a procession of semi-pro teams with names ranging from Dustdevils to Posse to Seagulls.
Schmidt, 88, spent most of the past four seasons with the Capitals, a team with perennial Stanley Cup aspirations.
His new team will likelier have more modest goals, but he's relishing the underdog role.
John Hefti-USA TODAY Sports

When they officially kick off their inaugural regular season on Oct. 6, the Golden Knights will finally put the city on the sporting map.
It's a new sensation for area fans, having a big-league team to call their own.
For the players who were invited to training camp, the experience has proven just as surreal -- particularly for Tyler Wong, who catapulted himself into Vegas sports lore when he scored a hat trick in the team's first preseason game, a 9-4 victory over the Vancouver Canucks.
An undrafted free agent from the small town of Cochrane, Alberta (pop.
25,853), who was in training camp on an AHL contract, Wong was already having a unique camp experience before his hat trick made him a local folk hero.
Until he was sent back to the Chicago Wolves on Monday, Wong -- along with several of his fellow camp invitees -- had taken up residence at Red Rock Casino Resort & Spa across the street from City National Arena.
For many players who are looking to make the Golden Knights' roster, the daily trip to the rink includes a walk through the property's sprawling casino.
JUST IN: The Vegas @GoldenKnights are embedding their season ticket holders names in their home ice.
pic.twitter.com/EGOgEuySOB  Darren Rovell (@darrenrovell) September 25, 2017

Since the NHL awarded its 31st franchise to Las Vegas, the confluence of city and sport has proven innovative.
Crazy Horse III, a popular Las Vegas strip club, has already announced its "Hockey at the Horse" promotion, a season-long series of game-viewing parties at the "award-winning gentlemen's club."
A local brewery, Hop Nuts Brewing, has introduced the Golden Knight, a Belgian strong golden ale that is already among its top sellers.
A quick tour around Las Vegas makes it increasingly obvious that the Golden Knights aren't just the latest star attraction in town.
This isn't a brooding illusionist or aging pop star unveiling a six-shows-a-week residency.
This team is changing the composition of the city.
T-Mobile Arena, the state-of-the-art facility that the Golden Knights call home, looms large at the south end of the iconic Strip.
It also directly borders the Park, an outdoor strip of bars and restaurants that is expanding thanks to a $450 million makeover at the nearby Monte Carlo Resort and Casino.
It's a major development for an area that was mostly barren before the arena appeared.
Fans are so fired up about the Golden Knights that they're even flocking to see preseason practices.
Richard Brian/Las Vegas Review-Journal via AP

"It was dead.
There was nothing over there," said Ronald Tomas, the manager of the Double Barrel sports bar outside the Monte Carlo.
"It was just a dusty lot.
But now we have something going on almost every week."
The Golden Knights aren't just contributing to development around T-Mobile Arena and the Summerlin region, where their practice facility is located.
They're also a central part of Las Vegas' downtown rehabilitation through their partnership with the D Hotel, which will offer game packages while hosting viewing parties, team events and an annual fan fest.
"They had the press conference outside, and after everyone went away that's when it hit me," said Jason Adimoolah, director of hotel operations at the D Las Vegas and Golden Gate Hotel Casino.
"To see our owner and CEO and to see [Golden Knights owner] Bill Foley down there with a couple of the players and their jackets, it was like, 'Wow, it's happening.'"
While fans and the city prepare for their regular-season home opener on Oct. 10, the players are still working to get the lay of the land.
They'll get there, just as soon as they figure out how to accommodate all the friends and family suddenly planning their upcoming Vegas vacation.
"I think my schedule is booked up in the first two weeks.
Right now, I'm screening calls because there's a little too much buzz going.
Everyone wants to plan a trip to Vegas now and see a couple of Vegas Knights games," Reilly Smith said.
"I'm sure it's not just for us players.
I'm sure that's just kind of a trending thing because it is the new hot ticket.
People go to Vegas and they want to see a show or gamble.
But having a professional team here is special."
Lonzo Ball reasserts his proclamation that the Lakers can make the playoffs and discusses updates to his new sneakers.
(1:49)

EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -- Los Angeles Lakers rookie Lonzo Ball said he is still deliberating on whether he will wear other shoe brands in addition to his Big Baller Brand this season like he did when he created a stir at the Las Vegas Summer League.
Editor's Picks BBB halts original ZO2 shoe, makes changes Big Baller Brand will offer refunds to customers who do not want the ZO2 Prime Remix -- a modified version of the original shoe that still costs $495.
How the Big Baller Brand is trying to disrupt the entire sneaker industry From introducing a $495 signature sneaker to changing his shoes - and brand - every game at summer league, Lonzo Ball's entry into the signature sneaker market is like nothing we've ever seen.
What does it all mean for the multi-billion dollar industry?
1 Related

"Who knows," Ball said when asked if he will wear other brands such as Nike and Adidas during his rookie season.
"Probably my shoes, though, thinking about it right now.
"I'll definitely be in my shoes the first game and then just go from there."
With CEO LaVar Ball hyping it and Lonzo's growing popularity, Big Baller Brand is trying to penetrate and perhaps even change the basketball shoe industry.
The Lakers' No.
2 overall pick wore Big Baller Brand but also Jordan, Nike, Adidas and Under Armour shoes in July on his way toward becoming the MVP of the Las Vegas Summer League.
"Just showing people that I have freedom," Ball said.
Big Baller Brand announced last week that fans who ordered the company's original shoe, the ZO2 Prime, will instead get a slightly different, lighter model in the ZO2 Prime Remix.
It runs for $495 and Big Baller Brand said it has ordered 10,000 pairs to be sold.
Lonzo Ball wore the remixed version of his ZO2 signature sneaker at Lakers media day.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea-USA TODAY Sports

Whichever shoes Ball wears, the rookie says his biggest challenge will likely be his body enduring the physicality of an NBA season for the first time.
"I think just the grind of the season, 82 games, I've never played that before and it's my first year so I don't know what really to expect," Ball said.
"But I'm going in there with an open mind ready to learn, ready to get better and just looking forward to the challenge."
Matthew Berry picks out key players to dump and keep on your fantasy team after Week 3.
(4:40)

ABOUT COOKIES

We use cookies to offer an improved online experience.
By clicking "OK" without changing your settings you are giving your consent to receive cookies.
The 2017-18 class of fantasy basketball stars is one of the deepest in history, but who is the cream of the crop?
Our experts make their cases for which player they would take first overall for roto scoring systems and for leagues that play in weekly head-to-head matchups.
Let the debate begin ...

Roto leagues

Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
Eric Karabell: Westbrook finished second to James Harden on the 2016-17 Player Rater, though it wasn't for lack of trying.
Westbrook was awesome, averaging a triple-double, though he left a bit to be desired in field goal percentage.
OK, so Westbrook's team added Paul George and Carmelo Anthony, who have been big-time scorers.
Harden's Rockets added Chris Paul, a pure point guard.
I don't see Harden coming all that close to matching Westbrook in rebounds or assists, and I'd like to get a head start in those categories by selecting Westbrook first.
I can get the extra 3s and safe field goal shooters later.
Both are great -- and the only ones I'd consider first in a roto setting -- but I don't see Westbrook losing too many stats despite the addition of George and Melo addition.
In fact, the assists could rise a bit.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Fantasy basketball sleepers, breakouts, busts for 2017-18 Every season, the manager in your league who avoids flops, nabs at least one breakout player and finds values others are sleeping on during the draft comes out on top.
Heed our experts' picks, so you can be that manager this time.
1 Related

Kyle Soppe: In Roto, it's about the versatility in the early rounds, and what better way to check all the boxes than with Mr. Triple-Double?
Based on Player Rater value, Westbrook finished inside the top 12 players in six of eight categories last season, and while the additions of George and Anthony might regress his usage a touch, you're still looking at an historically involved player.
It's possible the counting stats come back to earth in 2017-18, but I'd speculate that any impact felt by fantasy owners in that regard is offset by an increase in efficiency.
I'm all-in on waiting for point guards ... if you pick at any spot but first overall.
John Cregan: When there's a razor-thin margin separating the top players (and you could make an argument for up to five to go in the top slot in roto), I like to go with the player I feel has the most upside.
Meaning upside within his own game and his role on his team.
Antetokounmpo is building momentum in that he's still several seasons from his peak production, and he's increasing control on his team.
There are more touches available for him to suddenly take as his offensive game grows.
Joe Kaiser: Passing up on Westbrook or Harden for Antetokounmpo wouldn't make sense if there were a strong chance that Westbrook and/or Harden could repeat their numbers from last season, but that isn't going to happen with Paul joining Harden in Houston and George and Anthony taking shots away from Westbrook in OKC.
Meanwhile, Antetokounmpo enters his fifth NBA season after notching career highs nearly across the board: 22.9 PPG, 8.8 RPG, 5.4 APG, 1.9 BPG, 1.6 SPG, 52.1 FG%, 77 FT%.
As strong as those numbers are, the amazing part is Antetokounmpo doesn't turn 23 until December, which means he hasn't even come close to reaching his peak.
His efficiency sets him apart from Westbrook and Harden, and if he can add more 3PG to his game (he hit 53 last season), the Greek Freak will distance himself as the surefire No.
1 player in roto leagues this season.
James Harden

Jim McCormick: Harden offers 80 percent of Stephen Curry's 3-point and steals production while also rivaling Westbrook in rebounds and dimes.
The bearded one led the NBA in free throw attempts and makes per game last season.
This all adds up to roto success.
There are certainly legitimate contenders for this perch atop the roto rankings, as Antetokounmpo is an ascendant playmaker with Andrei Kirilenko-like defensive value, and Russ will still likely lead the NBA in usage rate.
Yet it's Harden at the centerpiece of an offense that shot at an historic 3-point rate last season -- an NBA-record 46 percent of the Rockets' shots came from beyond the arc last season.
While some see overlap in skill sets and specific usage with Paul, I see Harden arguably seeing better looks around the floor than he has since he was in Oklahoma City; Paul has finished first, second and fourth over the past three seasons, respectively, in adjusted assist-to-pass percentage.
No other player offers such a comfortably high and coveted floor across multiple important categories as Harden.
He's the Mike Trout of fantasy basketball production.
Points leagues

Russell Westbrook

Joe Kaiser: Westbrook's 2016-17 season will go down in history as one of the greatest of all-time.
Not only did he have 42 triple-doubles, he also averaged a triple-double (31.6 PPG, 10.7 RPG, 10.4 APG).
While that is unlikely to happen again due to the additions of George and Anthony, Westbrook's ability to fill up the stat sheet not only as a scorer, rebounder and distributor, but also in the steals department (1.6 SPG last year) gives him the nod over Antetokounmpo and Harden in points leagues.
It's also noteworthy that while his 42.5 FG% from a season ago was a crusher to that category in roto leagues, it doesn't have as much of an impact in points leagues.
Eric Karabell: In points leagues, the other option for me would be Minnesota's Karl-Anthony Towns, a magnificent, young player who fills the 20-10 needs we want for big men, along with the blocked shots, but I still like to build around point guards and power forwards if possible.
Westbrook is the best point guard, and I believe even in points formats, the better option.
In the middle rounds, I seem to be gravitating toward leftover centers others ignore, but the point guard crew after Round 5 doesn't provide much all-around statistical aid.
That's not necessarily a problem in a points league, where Ricky Rubio's shooting isn't a problem, but strange to say, this comes down to depth, and the fact I think the Wolves won't need Towns to score as much with Jimmy Butler in town.
Karl-Anthony Towns

Jim McCormick: Points formats equate production across each category.
This is especially true in ESPN standard scoring.
When entering any type of points format, you should pay close attention to the leaderboard in recent seasons.
Even in a league dominated by guard and wing play, in the real sense, the elite double-double bigs are still the dominant, league-swaying forces in this fantasy format.
This is because six players averaged at least 12 boards last season, while a dozen players cleared at least 10 per game.
There were 24 players with at least eight rebounds per game last season.
Conversely, six players averaged at least eight assists last season and only three were in double-digits per game.
Which brings us to Towns, the prodigious stretch big, who is basically on Tim Duncan's early career arc -- except with fewer blocks and far better shooting rates.
Towns was sixth in boards and 12th in points per game in just his second season.
In a volume-driven weekly points format that depends on availability as much as ability, it helps to note Towns has yet to miss a game and averaged a ridiculous 37 minutes last season (fifth in the NBA).
John Cregan: Again, upside.
In points, I'm looking for a top player most capable of delivering overwhelming volume.
Westbrook is the obvious choice, but adding George (and now Melo) is going to decrease his usage rate.
So it's about thinking about how far Westbrook might drop.
Whereas even with the addition of Butler, Towns is still years away from his peak.
Kyle Soppe: I want a high floor from as many big men as I can get in a points setting, so KAT leaps Westbrook when building a points league winner.
As a matter of fact, I've got Antetokounmpo as my second overall player, understanding that there is more of a premium placed on efficiency in this format.
Towns gives you the interior dominance (shot 64.1 percent from inside of eight feet last season) and rebounding that you look for from the anchor of your frontcourt, but his underrated touch (he shot 40.4 percent from outside of eight feet last season) is a skill that gives him the top floor/ceiling combination in a points league.
You love basketball.
You follow the NBA, root on your favorite team and watch games on TV.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
And you still haven't played fantasy basketball?!
If that sounds a lot like you, this is the perfect season to get off the bench and into the game.
The NBA is more stacked with star talent than it has been in years, with reigning MVP Russell Westbrook leading the way, and there has never been a better time to jump right into the fantasy game.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Imagine the feeling of having Stephen Curry on your squad when he has one of his classic shooting performances with 10 3-pointers.
Or what it feels like when Giannis Antetokounmpo erupts for a triple-double and adds three blocks to lead your team to victory.
This stuff is a lot of fun!
In fact, many of those who've played fantasy basketball for a while can probably recall specific games certain players had for them in the last 10, 15 or even 20 years.
Don't get me started on Tom Gugliotta!
If you're not an expert, don't worry -- we have everything you need to know on how to enter a league and draft a winning team.
Even if you're a total beginner, you will still have the tools to experience the joy of fantasy basketball like millions do every year.
Make the league your own

Every fantasy basketball league is different.
While there are basic rules and settings that apply across the board (you will learn about those below), each league takes on its own identity based on settings like roster size, injury spots, stat categories and other specifics.
We encourage you to join or start a league that fits what you're looking for.
If you want to be more casual and set your lineups once a week, find a league that uses weekly lineup changes.
If you're a little bit more diehard with all this and want to be able to add and drop players and craft new lineups on a daily basis, that's the type of league you should enter.
The bottom line is to do what's fun for you.
Find a league that keeps you tuning in to watch your players every night.
With that in mind, we've put together ESPN Fantasy Basketball 101 to give you an overview of how to get started, how to prepare for your draft and how to play during the season.
Now it's time for you to sign up and join the fun!
Getting started

How to sign up on the ESPN Fantasy app

Were you invited to an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league?
Do you want to create your own as a League Manager?
We have complete instructions for you right here.
How to sign up online

Whether you were invited to join an already-existing league or want to create your own as a League Manager, you'll find everything you need to do so right here.
League settings

If you created your own league, you'll need to make sure all of your league's rules and settings -- including roster size, scoring, regular-season schedules and playoff schedules -- are to your liking.
We have all of the details of how to do that right here.
You've signed up, now what?
Check out your league and team pages

It's time to learn more about your league and team pages, so you know where everything is.
We've got you covered with a detailed tour right here.
Know your rules

This might seem incredibly basic, but even veteran fantasy basketball players often assume they know their league rules even when they don't.
The result of overlooking a rule can be costly, so be sure you know the rules before your draft.
Go to your fantasy football league page, click on League, then Settings.
Here, you'll be able to find all the rules that are in place for your league this season.
This includes roster construction, scoring, schedule, playoff structure and more.
Take the time to carefully go over every section.
To make sure you understand the thinking behind each rule, check out our League Settings overview.
Draft prep

A good draft will put you in position to have a successful season, and taking time to prepare beforehand is key.
That includes formulating strategies and printing out rankings that reflect your league's scoring format.
Don't worry, we have you covered with customized expert rankings and draft strategies in the ESPN Fantasy Basketball draft kit.
Autodraft prep

If you don't plan to take part in a live draft, that's OK. Our system will automatically draft for you.
Still, you have the option of guiding how our system will draft your team.
Go to your Team page and click "Edit Autopick Strategy."
Here, you can decide which player positions you'd like to pick in which parts of the draft and how many players at each position you want to select overall.
Mock drafts

Mock drafts are simply practice drafts that don't count for anything.
It's a terrific way to get used to the ESPN draft software, make sure you know how everything works and test out different strategies.
For example, that might mean drafting a point guard in the first round versus drafting a small forward in Round 1 and waiting on a point guard until the fourth round.
These practice drafts also let you see which players are going higher than expected and which are routinely slipping down a round or two (or more).
This is extremely useful knowledge that you can take with you in your real draft and use to your advantage, avoiding those "sliding" players until later rounds when you have a good idea that they will still be available.
For an overview of how everything in the ESPN draft room works, click on this link.
The draft

Draft day is the most exciting day of the season, because it's when your team goes from a plan to a reality.
It's when you finally get the chance to assemble the group of players you get to root for all season.
Of course, you can always add and drop players throughout the year, but the draft is still the most fundamental part of your roster and you want to make sure you don't miss on your top players.
If you have prepared for your draft by reading up on players and strategies, and by participating in several mock drafts, you're on the path to success.
Believe in your hunches and don't look back.
To make everything go as smoothly as possible, be sure to follow these handy rules.
The season is starting, let the fun begin!
Trading

In most leagues, there are at least a few managers who enjoy the art of the deal.
If you're one of those people, trading is going to be one of the most fun aspects of fantasy basketball.
When done well, it's a great opportunity to improve your roster while unloading someone you perhaps no longer want or need.
There are several important factors to keep in mind.
You must look at the roster of the team you're trading with and understand which, if any players, that manager might be willing to part with.
For example, it'd be unwise to make a trade offer for a point guard on a team that is battling injuries and down to one healthy point guard.
Also, while you may never want to send your best trade offer with your first proposal, be careful not to offer up too little.
That can be offensive to the other manager and can lead to that person not only declining your offer but ending all future trade talks with you.
In-season strategies

Beyond trading, there are other factors to consider during the season like how to manage your games played in roto leagues, how to approach head-to-head playoffs, and how best to work the waiver wire.
Check out the in-season strategies section of our draft kit.
Fantasy basketball etiquette

Every few years, no matter what type of league you're in, you'll run into someone who causes problems.
Sometimes it name-calling on the message board and being a bully.
Other times it is a constant stream of wild trade offers and questionable transactions.
Whether you are in a hyper-competitive league or just trying to have some casual fun, you want to avoid being this way or having others in your league who conduct themselves like this.
Generally speaking, that just means following the golden rule: Treat others the way you'd want to be treated in your league.
Following up our first mock draft, which was a 10-team roto-style format, we got together for a 10-team head-to-head points mock draft.
Of important note is that this draft took place before the trade that sent Carmelo Anthony to the Oklahoma City Thunder and Enes Kanter and Doug McDermott to the New York Knicks, and before Dwyane Wade was bought out by the Chicago Bulls.
The participants, in order of draft position, were Tom Carpenter, Eric Karabell, Leo Howell, Austin Tedesco, Seth Walder, Renee Miller, Joe Kaiser, Kyle Soppe, Jim McCormick and John Cregan.
Below, you'll find one takeaway from each manager, followed by the draft results.
Tom Carpenter: I had the good fortune of landing the No.
1 pick, but there simply isn't one obvious standout choice this season.
In a points format, I could easily make a case for about a half-dozen players, but it came down to Russell Westbrook versus Karl-Anthony Towns for me.
I gave Russ the edge, because even with Paul George at his side, I couldn't pass up his massive usage, especially when KAT had more teammates to share the ball with.
But now that Melo is in the mix in OKC, I would lean toward Towns, especially with standard ESPN points scoring, which gives extra weight to big-man stats.
Westbrook is still going to rack up huge numbers, but I think KAT's ceiling in this format may actually be higher now.
Play Fantasy Basketball For Free An eventful summer in the NBA will make for an exciting 2017-18 fantasy hoops season.
Create or join an ESPN Fantasy Basketball league today!
Sign up for free!
Eric Karabell: One of the things I find myself doing in these mock drafts is ending up with the utility slots filled with centers because I can't pass up the potential numbers.
It's not the most versatile strategy, of course, and in leagues we play out, I could have problems if it's a daily format or when injuries occur.
But the centers seem to be falling, and I can't help myself!
Take Joel Embiid, for example.
I was surprised he was there at pick No.
He won't play 70 games, but when he plays, he should be awesome.
A few rounds later Jonas Valanciunas was curiously available.
Then it was Marcin Gortat!
These guys should shoot well and provide the numbers I expect and need, but if swingman Jimmy Butler were to get hurt, my team might have a problem.
In future mocks, I want to see how it feels to build with 2s and 3s.
I imagine I won't enjoy it as much.
Leo Howell: Unlike our previous mock draft, which was a roto format, I felt a lot more free to make choices based on talent and general feel for a player and not be bound to categories and balance.
I found myself gravitating to guys who have solid roles and established production, because in a points format, talent + volume = victory.
From my first rounder (James Harden) to my last starter (Dwyane Wade), I feel like I have both elements in large amounts.
Normally in fantasy sports, I like young players and potential breakouts, but when I need to maximize counting stats and production, I don't want to take as many gambles when it comes to role or inexperience.
Editor's Picks 2017-18 fantasy basketball draft kit Mock drafts, roto rankings, points rankings, projections, player profiles, draft strategies, DFS strategies -- we've got everything you need to dominate fantasy basketball from every angle.
Melo to Thunder trade: Fantasy fallout How will the fantasy values of Melo, Russell Westbrook and Paul George change following the Knicks-Thunder trade?
Is Russ still worthy of a No.
1 overall pick?
Is Melo still top-50?
Where should you take PG-13?
2017-18 fantasy basketball points rankings In fantasy hoops leagues that use ESPN's standard points-league scoring, you'll find big men on the rise.
Do the likes of KAT and The Brow top Russ and Harden?
Does Steph even make the top 10?
Where do LeBron and Jokic land?
2 Related

Austin Tedesco: Myles Turner felt like a reaaach, but look at these dudes around him in the draft.
It's a sea of injury histories and/or cramped rosters with opportunity risks.
Hard pass.
So I'm banking on Turner upping his 3-point attempts per game from 1.4 to closer to 4.0 (let it fly, Myles!).
The rest of his game should naturally improve in Year 3.
He's already a good defender, and a bump in his RPG and BPG would make him a monstrous fantasy center with power forward flexibility.
If he doesn't average 20 and 10, I'm blaming Victor Oladipo and Kevin Pritchard.
The only thing he doesn't do is dish.
On this Pacers team, I hope it stays that way.
Seth Walder: I actually pondered DeAndre Jordan with my second-round pick but had a sneaking suspicion that the Clippers' center might last until the third round -- our interface's pre-draft rankings were based on rotisserie scoring, and therefore he was ranked 46th -- and decided to push my luck to test that theory.
It worked out.
By ESPN's projections, Jordan is forecasted to score the 16th-most points in this format.
Jim McCormick ranked him 16th in his points rankings.
And FiveThirtyEight's CARMELO projects him to have the 19th-highest WAR in 2017.
While CARMELO isn't forecasting with fantasy in mind, it's still nice to look to another projection system to confirm Jordan's overall value is in this range.
This early on, a roughly 10-spot value in a draft is about as good as you can hope for.
Jordan may have fallen because he doesn't score as many points as some of the other big men we often seek for points leagues, but that irrelevant at the rate he hoovers up boards.
Renee Miller: With a solid center, a best-is-yet-to-come power forward and Kevin Durant already on my team I was thrilled when Eric Bledsoe was available in the 4th round.
A triple-double threat when healthy, Bledsoe has averaged 32-34 minutes per game with around 18 points, 5 rebounds, 6 assists, and almost 2 steals per game during his four seasons in Phoenix.
The Suns play at a fast pace, which benefits point guards (and power forwards), specifically.
It doesn't hurt that he's pretty efficient (45 FG%, 81 FT%) either.
The knock on him is health and the risk of being benched for a younger model (Tyler Ulis).
However, he's healthy now, entering just his eighth season in the league (age 27), with a well-rounded skill set that shores up my team at the point.
Joe Kaiser: I'm already having buyer's remorse for taking Kawhi Leonard over LeBron James in a points league.
That shouldn't have happened, and if LeBron is there with the seventh pick you take him every time.
The lesson here is that it's easy to let yourself get swayed by efficiency, even when it doesn't matter as much, as is the case in a points league.
My strategy in the later rounds was to get scorers, and I was happy to get pretty good values in players like Dario Saric (67th), Tobias Harris (74th) and Lou Williams (107th).
Unfortunately, passing on a center in the middle rounds for the sake of selecting the best player available backfired, as I was left choosing from the likes of Pau Gasol, Mason Plumlee and Frank Kaminsky.
Once Gasol came off the board, I reluctantly took Plumlee as my one and only center.
If I had to do it over with the whole wait-for-a-center approach, I'd make sure to get someone like Clint Capela in the 60-70 range.
Kyle Soppe: My biggest takeaway from this draft was that I'm likely fading the masses this season.
We are in a golden era for point guards and that was reflected in this mock, as half of our league had a starting point (and McCormick had two) within the first 16 picks.
Yes, I understand how good these players are, but there is sneaky depth at the position, and by zigging when others are zagging, I love the value I got inside the top 100.
D'Angelo Russell and Dennis Smith Jr. are the two players I base this strategy on, as I truly believe they are the top values on the board, given their current ADP, and the ability to wait on filling my backcourt allows me to capitalize on any frontcourt player who falls as a result of the early run on guards.
Jim McCormick: Full disclosure: A traffic jam on the "Blue Route" (people from Philly understand) saw me autodraft the first six rounds of this draft.
Full disclosure: I actually like the build of this team, save for the far-too-early Isaiah Thomas selection.
With that Thomas pick, I'd instead prefer the volume rebounding potential of Kevin Love or Andre Drummond in a points format than the risk Thomas presents.
The auto portion of my roster should prove elite in 3-pointers, assists, steals and volume scoring but entirely thin in boards and blocks.
Given we don't need to worry about categorical balance as much in a points format, I spent the second half of the draft building on the strengths the first six rounds established -- resulting in a blend of 3-and-D perimeter specialists.
It's a bit of an atypical build, but with a bevy of top guards, there is at least an intriguing ceiling for this small-ball collective.
John Cregan: Following on the heels of my second-year breakouts column, I wanted to use this draft to highlight where I'd pick some of my favorite sophomores.
I selected Marquese Chriss and Willy Hernangomez in the eighth round, Malcolm Brogdon in the 10th, and Buddy Hield in the 12th (I had the wraparound pick).
Of the four, Chriss has the most upside, while Brogdon is the safest pick.
71st may feel like a reach for Hernangomez, but with Joakim Noah out the first month of the season, Hernangomez has a huge opportunity to dramatically increase his minutes per game for the duration.
For these men, bribing coaches was a business investment, Joon H. Kim, the acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said while announcing federal bribery, fraud and other corruption charges.
They knew corrupt coaches, in return for bribes, would pressure the players to use their services.
They also knew that if and when those young players turned pro, that would mean big bucks for them.
This vision of what Kim called the dark underbelly of college basketball led to the arrests of nearly a dozen people, including four Division I assistant coaches and the global marketing director for Adidas basketball.
Kim said the investigation was continuing, and the disclosures made on Tuesday seemed to promise further revelations of wrongdoing that could upend one of the countrys most popular sports, whose annual tournament provides the N.C.A.A.
with the vast majority of its income.
Across three complaints, two broad schemes were alleged.
One involved bribing four assistant coaches  at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and Southern California, all programs in the so-called Power 5 conferences of college sports  to persuade players to send business to certain financial advisers once they turned professional.
The other involved efforts to secretly funnel money from Adidas to three players and their families in exchange for the players commitments to play at two Adidas-sponsored college programs and to later sign sponsorship deals with the company once they turned pro.
The latter complaint said a senior Adidas executive, Jim Gatto, was in on an agreement to pay about $100,000 to the family of Player-10, a heavily recruited high school standout, to steer him to a particular college.
While neither the player nor the university was named, descriptions of the institution matched the University of Louisville, which this summer signed a 10-year, $160 million apparel contract with Adidas.
Louisvilles mens basketball program is currently on N.C.A.A.
probation over a scandal in which prostitutes were used to entice recruits in on-campus housing (the university is appealing those penalties, which were announced in June).
Adidas said in a statement: Today, we became aware that federal investigators arrested an Adidas employee.
We are learning more about the situation.
Were unaware of any misconduct and will fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.
Louisvilles interim president, Gregory C. Postel, confirmed his universitys involvement in the investigation.
While we are just learning about this information, Postel said in a statement, this is a serious concern that goes to the heart of our athletic department and the university.
He added that Louisville was committed to ethical behavior and adherence to N.C.A.A.
rules.
Payments were discussed for other players families as well, the complaint says, including one who had not yet begun his junior year of high school and another who was to receive $150,000 to enroll at a college whose description matches the University of Miami, another Adidas-sponsored college.
Miami said in a statement that it, too, would cooperate with investigators if asked.
The coach of an Adidas-sponsored grass-roots team in Florida  a pre-college squad outside of the high school structure  was among those charged.
Photo

In the first scheme, one complaint charged that Chuck Person, the associate head coach at Auburn, abused his coaching position to solicit and obtain bribes from a financial adviser and business manager for professional athletes.
In return, he agreed to direct certain players from his program to the adviser when the players entered the N.B.A.
Person accepted a total of $91,500 in the case, the complaint said, and is accused of passing on about $18,500 to the families of two athletes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kim emphasized the trust that young players had put in their coaches and noted that Person had boasted of one player: He listens to one person  that is me.
The other complaint charged the other three assistant coaches with solicitation of bribery for accepting payments to steer players.
The coaches named are Lamont Evans, an assistant at Oklahoma State and a former assistant at South Carolina; Emanuel Richardson, an assistant at Arizona; and Tony Bland, an assistant at U.S.C.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All three, and Person, have been suspended, their programs announced Tuesday in separate statements.
The N.C.A.A.
president, Mark Emmert, was caught off guard by Tuesday mornings announcement but pledged his organizations support.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust, Emmert said.
Tuesdays revelations all but ensured a renewed debate about two rules central to college basketball.
One is the N.C.A.A.s longstanding restrictions on compensation, a central part of college sports that has been under attack in recent years by polemicists, antitrust lawsuits and even some players.
The other is the so-called one-and-done rule, agreed to jointly by the N.B.A.
and its players union, which generally prohibits players from entering the league before they have turned 19 or until a year after they graduate from high school.
Before the rules implementation, the best high school basketball players in each class had the option of simply entering the N.B.A.
and receiving a salary, as well as lucrative endorsement deals, and above all not needing to worry themselves over N.C.A.A.
rules.
Those restrictions, combined with the increasing pressure to rack up wins fueled by billion-dollar television deals, created an incentive, some said, for coaches to break the rules to secure top talent.
In that environment, said a person familiar with top-level college basketball, who was granted anonymity to discuss rule-breaking, $100,000 for a five-star prospect was a pretty good investment.
The cases were brought with the aid of a cooperating witness against whom the Securities and Exchange Commission had brought securities charges, including misusing professional athletes funds.
Two undercover F.B.I.
agents posing as financial advisers were also involved.
The witness was Martin Blazer, a former financial adviser based in Pittsburgh, the United States attorneys office said.
The investigation used judicially approved wiretaps, and began in 2015.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The complaints did not implicate any head coaches, perhaps for reasons explained by one of the defendants in an audio recording of a secret meeting.
According to a transcript of comments by the defendant, an agent named Christian Dawkins, the path to securing commitments from college athletes went through assistant coaches, because head coaches aint willing to take bribes,  cause theyre making too much money.
And its too risky.
Illegal inducements and benefits to athletes come as no surprise to followers of college sports, and the N.C.A.A.
has long struggled to police rules violations at its member universities.
Many times, the violations have been exposed in vivid detail: department store discounts for Florida State football players; cash payments to Michigans so-called Fab Five; trades of tattoos for autographs at Ohio State.
Louisville was punished for the prostitute scandal in June, when the N.C.A.A.
placed the Cardinals on probation, suspended Coach Rick Pitino for five games and ordered the university to forfeit what could be dozens of games  potentially including the Cardinals 2013 national championship.
Those sanctions were announced June 15  less than two weeks, Tuesdays complaint claimed, after a Louisville coach is accused of taking part in the plan to funnel $100,000 to the all-American recruit.
The complaints announced Tuesday also included tantalizing clues indicating that what was alleged is merely the tip of the iceberg.
Dawkins, for example, urged that the payment to a players family be increased because one of Adidass rivals was coming in with a higher number.
When youve coached Kobe Bryant, worked with Phil Jackson, it goes a long ways, Person said to the federal informant on a recorded telephone call, according to the complaint.
Photo

Recorded conversations, videotapes and evidence of Persons cash payments  as well as complaints that outlined allegations of similar transgressions by three other assistant coaches at prominent programs  laid bare the worst-kept secret in college athletics: Student-athletes (the N.C.A.A.s preferred term) have been bought and sold in pursuit of championship glory and a healthy percentage of their future earnings.
Past scandals in college basketball have tarnished iconic coaches like Jerry Tarkanian and Rick Pitino and storied programs like the University of Kentucky, to name a small fraction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Until Tuesday, criminal charges were almost unheard-of.
In the past, it was up to journalists to act on tips from disgruntled players or agents to bring the scandals to light.
Then the N.C.A.A., which has never had enough resources to police all of its members, would investigate and mete out punishment.
In recent years, many colleges under suspicion have pre-empted that process.
They have hired outside law firms (often stocked with former N.C.A.A.
employees) to investigate accusations and, if necessary, to enter into a plea negotiation with the N.C.A.A., preferably one that does not turn off the spigot of athletic revenues.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Person and the other coaches implicated in the federal complaints will need a different kind of lawyer  the criminal variety.
Oklahoma States Lamont Evans, Arizonas Emanuel Richardson and the University of Southern Californias Tony Bland were accused of bribery for accepting payments to steer players to specific agents.
The complaints might pressure these coaches to cooperate with the government, perhaps resulting in even more coaches facing criminal charges.
In Persons case, the allegations suggest a scheme born out of convenience and a simple calculus.
Rashan Michel, an Atlanta-based tailor of bespoke suits for a clientele of professional athletes, was named as a co-defendant.
Michel, the complaint said, promised the financial adviser that he could deliver college basketball coaches because he made their suits and had access to the locker room and the kids.
Besides, Michel told the adviser in salty language, N.B.A.
players make way more than football guys and 10 of them over the next five years would generate enough revenue that he and the adviser would be able to sit back and do absolutely nothing.
Person passed on about $18,500 to the families of two athletes in recorded meetings where warnings about secrecy were paramount, according to the complaint.
But he was not above displaying greed.
He asked the informant to cut Michel out of the financial loop, the complaint said, and tried to double dip with another unnamed financial adviser, who declined to enter a pay-for-play agreement.
In a wry footnote, the F.B.I.
agent who prepared the affidavit noted that Person had not done his due diligence on the financial adviser/informant.
If Person had done a simple internet search, for example, he would have found that the financial adviser was facing securities fraud allegations leveled by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Person apparently was oblivious.
He vouched for the informant to a parent, saying that the informant was his personal financial adviser and Barkleys, as well.
And Person demonstrated how he molded young men.
Your personality and the way you do things cant change, Person instructed a player.
Dont flaunt the stuff you get and, you know, dont change the way you speak to people  thats very important, too, and character, which we talk about all the time.
Even players admit to feeling conflicted, with limits on hitting extending to practices where they practice  hitting.
I miss some of the old ways, Giants center Weston Richburg said.
Having someone banging against your pads in practice does help you prepare for the amped up intensity of a game.
Photo

Are you ready?
Because in a game, everyone is moving at full speed and pads are popping.
But at the same time, current players look at retirees from the game and see how many of them are hobbled or mentally infirm.
Players today began youth or high school football before all the new rules, penalties and restrictions were enacted.
They grew up, as many fans did, with an almost primal attraction to footballs aggression.
The players long to be safer; several have told me of the desire to one day play with their grandchildren.
But they also want to play football.
Its a game where you hit people, the Pro Bowl linebacker Jon Beason told me two years ago.
You cant get away from that and I dont want to.
The hitting in practice, for instance, you weed out a lot of guys.
You know whos really down for the cause.
Its essential.
But theyve taken that away.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is true that N.F.L.
teams no longer do blocking and tackling in the vast majority of practices.
A modern N.F.L.
practice is more like a glorified game of touch football.
No one gets knocked around.
If someone is on the ground, he probably tripped.
Behind the lack of hard contact, is a cold, hard business decision.
Coaches and league executives are worried about injuries to players whom they pay on average about $2 million annually.
The impetus for change was new awareness about the dangers of concussions, head trauma and injuries of all kinds in a bruising game, along with the research that showed that more injuries occur in practice than games.
And again, at the major college and N.F.L.
level, protecting the players also meant protecting the bottom line.
When a star like Tom Brady of the New England Patriots was seriously injured and missed the 2008 season  on a hit that would now be ruled illegal  television ratings slipped, though there may have been other contributing factors behind that.
Photo

It might be telling that N.F.L.
players who played both before and after the new contact restrictions were established tend to welcome them.
The recently retired Giants guard Chris Snee, who remembers when linemen greeted opponents with a meaty slap on the head as plays began, said he appreciated the added protection.
Rules against shots to the head made a lot of sense to me, said Snee, a four-time Pro Bowl selection.
Snee also insisted, however, that the football field still remains no place for the meek.
Guys are bigger and faster and just as physical, he said.
Its still tough out there, Im sure of that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Other players who remember when there were virtually no safeguards against blindside and helmet-to-helmet hits bristled at the suggestion that the N.F.L.
had somehow gone soft.
Joe Theismann, the former Washington Redskins quarterback whose leg was gruesomely broken during a nationally televised game in 1985, called the sport as violent as its ever been.
Trust me, these guys hit just as hard, Theismann said Tuesday.
If you really watch the hits up close, you would not say the game is getting soft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Which may be entirely the point.
On the sideline, where I have watched plenty of games, the speed and size of the mammoth players, the ferocity of the collisions, the constant crack of pads pounding pads, usually leaves the uninitiated awe-struck but also a little shaken.
Ive taken people down to the field, escorted them to within inches of the playing field and watched.
After a play or two, they usually start retreating to a safer distance  5 or 10 yards from the maelstrom.
It does not make them soft.
If anything, it seems to give them an informed understanding of what it takes to play professional football.
Last summer, at the Rio Games, the Ethiopian marathoner Feyisa Lilesa crossed his arms over his head at the finish line to protest Ethiopias treatment of his ethnic group, the Oromo people.
He has been in exile since.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the Olympic Games themselves, there is a prohibition on all forms of demonstration, political or otherwise, said Scott Blackmun, chief executive of the United States Olympic Committee, referring to a rule in the Olympic Charter.
We have a little bit different state of play when it comes to the Olympic Games.
But we certainly recognize the importance of athletes being able to express themselves.
The American figure skater Adam Rippon is among the more outspoken Olympic hopefuls in terms of politics, commonly sharing his views on Instagram and Twitter.
Over the weekend, after President Trump said Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors were no longer invited to the White House, Rippon retweeted a statement from the Warriors, calling the team champions on and off the court.
As athletes, we have a very unique opportunity to speak up about things that we believe in and to be that voice for people who are not being heard, Rippon said.
When asked if he would make some kind of statement at the Olympics if he makes the podium, he hesitated.
I hope by the time the Olympics comes around the atmosphere and tensions of the political climate are different, he said, adding that he would support teammates should they express their views.
Elana Meyers Taylor, a two-time Olympic bobsledder, said athletes were pushing for social change more than ever before.
I think the hardest thing is that all of us would love to just stick to sports  but if you want us to be role models to kids then you need to stand for more than just sports.
Photo

At the end of the day, she added, the only time we hear the national anthem is when we win a gold medal.
So we have to get to the Olympics, then win a gold medal and then see what kind of social impact we can have there.
While some athletes left open the possibility of making a political statement at the Winter Games, others said it was out of the question.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You wont see me taking a knee at the national anthem, especially at an event like the Olympics, said Troy Terry, a hockey player hoping to make the United States team for Pyeongchang.
Im not going to do it again next week, he said.
I didnt want to do it this week.
This all had to do with President Trumps comments.
Thats the only reason that we did that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kenneth Shropshire, who runs the Global Sport Institute at Arizona State University, is the author of the book In Black and White: Race and Sports in America.
He has some interesting thoughts on the effectiveness of protest movements, and he worries that the N.F.L.
movement might be fleeting.
To effect real change, Mr. Shropshire told me, the demonstrations cant disappear in a flash.
But their staying power depends on the reason the players and owners were spurred to action.
At the player level, it really was someone saying on the street, Yo mama, he said.
And at the basest level, nobody can talk about your mother without some retribution.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the owner level, he said, any continued displays of solidarity will depend how much of the protest stemmed from owners anger that the president had told them how to run their businesses.
Their thinking might be, How dare this person get into my business?
he said.
So itll be interesting if some owner signs Kaepernick now, just to show that Trump cant engage in their business.
The real problem with players who focus solely on Mr. Trumps comments is that he will have succeeded in steering attention away from the original issues  racism and police brutality.
On Sunday, everyone seemed to be consumed by a different matter: whether it is appropriate to kneel during the anthem.
Vernon Davis, a Redskins tight end, said he had an idea for how to get beyond the bickering and properly engage on the real issues: Gather top players from each of the professional leagues and have them meet with Mr. Trump at the White House.
We have some of the largest platforms there is, he said.
Were huge influences when it comes to people.
He added: Why not just come together and make it right?
Because there is an issue, there is a problem, for sure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Davis said he would gladly meet with Mr. Trump, but only at the right time, which he said would be outside of football season.
So Mr. Davis, at least, has put everything on hold until February.
By then, the opportunity might be gone.
Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, said that if a strong core of players would be willing to start  or continue  the conversation about racial equality and justice in their communities, the movement could grow quickly.
Sunday was the most important sports day since Ali decided not to fight in Vietnam, Mr. Lapchick said.
Yes, I think it was that big.
What we dont do in America is talk about these issues openly, but now we could easily create a forum where athletes and city leaders and front offices and police can discuss racial justice.
Right now we dont have any of that kind of unity in our communities.
Redskins cornerback Josh Norman said he would be up for that kind of outreach.
After Sundays game, he stood at his locker long after every other player left the room and talked about President Trump and about freedom and how something in this country has to change.
He said he was so sickened and disturbed by the presidents insults that he couldnt stop thinking about his place in the world, and that the game came secondary.
What about next weekends game?
For now, Mr. Norman said, he was thinking about how to make things better and exercising his right to be free.
Photo

For the many people who believe that N.F.L.
players who kneel during the national anthem are disrespecting American armed forces, Pat Tillman was a perfect symbol.
But Marie Tillman, who was married to Corporal Tillman when he left a lucrative contract with the Arizona Cardinals to join the Army, has asked the hundreds of people invoking him in the debate over the players kneeling to stop politicizing his memory.
That group included President Trump, who on Monday retweeted an account praising the memory of the Cardinals star, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, and calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
It was just one of many dozens of tweets over the weekend that contrasted Corporal Tillmans service with the demonstrations during the national anthem, which started as a way for players to call attention to racial injustice.
For those who viewed the gesture as spoiled or self-absorbed, Corporal Tillman represented an antithesis.
By the time Mr. Trump added his voice, the pushback had already begun, as people pointed out that Corporal Tillman was a less-than-convenient symbol for pride in the armed forces.
After he was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, the Army initially said that Afghan militants had been responsible.
It took nearly five weeks for the Tillman family to find out that he had been fatally shot by Army Rangers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Mr. Trumps retweet, many also pointed out that the former football player had been a critic of the war in Iraq and of President George W. Bush.
Corporal Tillman was an intellectually curious, independent thinker interested in World War II and the works of the left-wing professor Noam Chomsky.
On Monday, Marie Tillman, who rarely speaks publicly, said that her husband deserved to be remembered as a symbol of unity.
This is Bellinis signature move, the trademark that has made him a sensation on YouTube and Instagram and has turned a local radio D.J.
into a celebrity not just in his native Naples but much further beyond.
Every club in Italy has a stadium announcer  a job the Italians call lo speaker  but only Napoli has Daniele Bellini, the man everyone in this city knows as Decibel.
For the last seven years, Bellini, 36, has been employed as Napolis speaker.
He inherited the role by chance.
The previous incumbent was unable to attend a game in 2010 against the clubs bitter northern rival Juventus.
Bellini was working as a D.J.
at a local radio station, Radio Marte  known now as Radio Kiss Kiss  that covered Napolis games.
I was about 10th in line for the job, he said.
But a couple of people didnt want to do it, a couple of others couldnt do it that weekend, so eventually they said to me, Right, you do it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Napoli won that day, and Bellini was told to return the next week.
You have to remember that were very superstitious people in Naples, he said.
It stayed like that for a year, maybe two: it was a game-by-game thing.
I was always afraid that we would lose and I would be told that was it, but we won a lot of games that year.
Bellini was given no instructions of note when he took the job.
At most clubs, the speaker is not a position given a vast amount of thought: They read out safety and security messages  telling people not to use lasers, not to light flares, that sort of thing  announce the lineups, confirm substitutions, name goal scorers.
They are the basics, Bellini said.
Everything else is just spectacle, just show.
The show, though, is where Bellini excels.
San Paolo has long been one of the most intimidating stadiums in Europe.
Though Napoli overhauled the dressing rooms before the visit of Real Madrid in the Champions League last year  to try to make the stadium seem a little less outdated  it remains a crumbling, menacing place, its hostility a badge of honor.
Maurizio Sarri, the Napoli manager, has described San Paolo as a hell for visiting teams.
Zinedine Zidane found it beautiful, but never easy.
Yaya Tour, the Manchester City and Ivory Coast midfielder, once said that his visit there was the only time my legs have shaken before a game.
Bellini  a fan himself  did not set out to change that.
I am not a protagonist, he said.
The fans are the protagonists.
Instead, he said, he did what he could to harness their energy, to encourage it.
Most notably, when a player scored, Bellini would announce their first name five times, the fans responding with the surname.
(He has a curious blind spot for the names of opposition players: there is a tendency for the occasional Alessandro to be named as Angelo, or a Pietro to become Paolo.
Not very convincingly, he says it is not deliberate.)
It all changed with Edinson Cavani, he said.
Cavani, the Uruguayan striker now with Paris Saint-Germain, spent three prolific years in Naples, scoring 104 goals in 138 games.
It was a record that Bellini thought warranted special status.
He wore No.
7, he said.
So I thought one day I would say his name seven times.
That was the start.
Soon, that became a tradition: every Cavani goal would be greeted by Bellinis bellowing his name out seven times, the crowd following on, louder and louder.
Bellini, an early adopter of both Facebook and Instagram, uploaded the videos to YouTube.
They attracted hundreds of thousands of views.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His greatest hit, though, came in 2013.
When another prolific striker, the Argentine Gonzalo Higuan, scored in a Champions League game against Borussia Dortmund, Bellini announced his name nine times, another tribute to his jersey number.
The footage went viral.
I went on holiday to Jamaica a couple of years ago, Bellini said.
I was in Trenchtown, where Bob Marley was born, with a guide.
We looked in a bar, and there were some kids watching a Premier League game.
One of them turned around, looked at me, and his face dropped.
Photo

 Its you, he said.
Hey, man, Gonzalo!
Gonzalo!
Higuan!
Higuan!
I dont know how theyd seen the film  its a bad area, they had old phones, no connection  and they did not know where Naples was, or even Italy.
But they had seen it, in Trenchtown, in Jamaica.
Bellini brushes off the idea that he is anything but a tiny part of what makes the San Paolo special.
He is not entirely uncomfortable with being seen as a celebrity: he attends games wearing a hat with his name stenciled on it, and in a Napoli polo shirt; he grins when he is mobbed by fans.
But he said that he still gets nervous, still fears making a mistake, still grows quiet as he nears the stadium, a little transformation that allows him to become his public persona.
I do not have time to be emotional, he said.
Quite often, I will go home and watch the games back on television, because I feel I havent really seen them.
Just as a photographer sees things differently through the lens of a camera, I see them differently when I have a microphone.
I have to work out who scored, if there was a deflection, if it was an own goal, and do it all in three seconds, and I have to get it right.
It is his job, and it is one he takes seriously.
Thanks to Higuan, so do the players.
Last summer, Bellini joined Napoli on its preseason retreat in Dimaro, high in the Dolomites.
On the plane back, he sat next to Arkadiusz Milik, a Polish striker signed to replace Higuan.
Together with Miliks agent, they spent an hour working out how best to announce his name when he scored.
Photo

They take an interest, Bellini said of the players.
They know their names will be shouted to the stadium, so it is logical they want to make sure it is done the best way.
I speak to all the new players to find out how they want me to do it.
Not every name has the natural rhythm of Cavani or Higuan, but Bellini finds a way to make it work.
Though he acknowledges a name like Mertens does not scan quite so well, it has not stopped him trying.
The thornier issue is bellowing his name as many times as his squad number dictates: Mertens wears 14.
I have got to 11, Bellini said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He knows there will always be some who do not like what you do, but he accepts that he is now, both internally and externally, part of the clubs identity: He functions as a social fixer for many of the players, seen by them as a friend, and is a tradition for fans on matchday.
Indeed, so ingrained is he in the Napoli experience that he performed as a D.J.
at the wedding of Jorginho, a Brazilian midfielder, last summer.
The year before that, he was in the congregation when Mertens married.
Judge leads the league in runs scored while hitting .283 with 105 R.B.I., but here is the biggest reason he should win: Nobody plays the modern game better.
Besides his two homers in Mondays 11-3 rout, Judge added his 120th walk and his 203rd strikeout.
His homers, walks and strikeouts lead the A.L.
In his first full major league season, Judge has become the manifestation of the game in 2017.
Major League Baseball has set a single-season record for total home runs, as strikeout and walk rates continue to rise.
Plate discipline, launch angle, exit velocity.
Patience, power, production.
That is baseball today.
More well-rounded players who rarely strike out  like Houstons Jose Altuve, Bostons Mookie Betts and Clevelands Jose Ramirez  have also led their teams to postseason berths.
All play an exhilarating style of baseball.
But it is hard to believe anyone has been more of a force than Judge.
When we left spring training, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said, I said, If he gets the barrel of the bat to the ball, hes going to do a lot of damage  and if he does it on a consistent basis, hes going to have a huge year for us.
And thats what hes done.
You can talk about the home runs, the runs, the R.B.I.s, the walks, the defense, the base-running  over and over, hes a complete player.
There has never been a player who strikes out so much yet makes up for it so emphatically.
Only five other players have struck out 200 times in a season: Mark Reynolds (three times), Chris Carter and Chris Davis (twice each), Adam Dunn and Drew Stubbs.
In one of those seasons, Davis placed 14th in the M.V.P.
That is the highest finish ever by a player with at least 200 strikeouts.
Naturally, Judge said he had not considered the possibility of being the most valuable player, an award won by just two other rookies: Fred Lynn in 1975 and Ichiro Suzuki in 2001.
Judge is much more comfortable talking about team accomplishments.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Just like the record, I dont try to think about that, Judge said of the M.V.P.
race, especially with what this teams got going on, with this playoff push and trying to win a division.
Thats more important to me right now.
Id rather be in good position in the playoffs and holding up a World Series trophy than an A.L.
M.V.P.
trophy, at this point.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Judge reached the All-Star Game break hitting .329, but he wobbled when the season resumed.
He entered September with a .179 average since the break, precisely his average in a cameo with the Yankees last summer.
That mark was so embarrassing, Judge has acknowledged, that it fueled his workouts last winter.
Repeating that performance in the second half of this season has not worried him, Judge insists, because he had already shown what he could achieve.
Soon enough, teammates told him, he would be that superstar again.
Judge kept wearing down pitchers, even without much to show for it.
When youre going through slumps and youre struggling, sometimes players become over-anxious, Girardi said.
And he was able to maintain a sense of what he needed to do, that he needed to remain patient and look for his pitch.
From July 14 through Aug. 31, Judge hit only seven homers to go with that .179 average.
But his on-base percentage was respectable, at .346.
He may have been more bothered by a shoulder ailment than he let on, and he deflected a question about it on Monday.
His September performance  a .307 average, a .444 on-base percentage and 13 homers, the most he has hit in any month  is evidence of the revival teammates expected.
When youre making outs and youre striking out, I think its just that much harder, and to see the look on his face and how he prepared himself, still, every day, he didnt even flinch about it, third baseman Todd Frazier said.
Come in every day, got a walk, all right, its coming.
Then get a walk, maybe a blooper  and eventually he came back.
When Judge broke McGwires record Monday, with a blast to deep left center off Trevor Cahill in the seventh inning, the fans gave him his first curtain call.
Judge said he had never gotten one before  not in high school, not at Fresno State, not in the minors.
He seemed a little sheepish about it  he didnt want to interrupt the game  but the recognition was overdue.
Only four other Yankees have hit 50 home runs in a season: Babe Ruth (four times), Mickey Mantle (twice), Roger Maris and Alex Rodriguez.
Looking back at the history of the Yankees and all the greats that have put on the pinstripes, its extraordinary, Judge said.
Just getting a chance to play one game with the Yankees is quite an honor.
To have your name with those greats is something, as a kid, I never dreamed of.
This is reality now, for Judge and his game.
The academic dishonesty is an unprecedented black mark on North Carolina, one of the countrys most prestigious universities.
The universitys accreditation body briefly took the extraordinary step of placing the institution on probation, and its teams could still face sanctions like lost scholarships, vacated titles and postseason bans.
The allegations seem to fit squarely within the N.C.A.A.s purview: stocking deliberately easy classes with athletes, as much to keep them eligible as to educate them.
The Wainstein Report implied that a department chair, a senior associate athletic director and several football coaches all knew, or should have known, something fishy was taking place.
Photo

Most people, even if they dont know the bylaws and the facts, if they just got those headline descriptions of what the case is, they would think something is not right, said Gene Marsh, a former Committee on Infractions leader who now works at the law firm Jackson Lewis.
But those with deep knowledge of N.C.A.A.
rules say that the case is not so clear cut.
North Carolina has not self-imposed punishments  the customary tactic for colleges that know they have been caught dead-to-rights.
It is fighting back relentlessly.
And, according to several experts, it may escape punishment.
The public is definitely going to hammer the N.C.A.A.
if they dont do something, said Joshua R. Smith, the assistant athletic director for compliance at Eastern Illinois University.
Youre looking at bogus classes.
The N.C.A.A.
wants to take back their reputation that they really are academically focused first, putting the student ahead of the athlete, and this is an issue where they can do that.
However, Smith added, If you look deeper, its difficult to say what bylaw exactly comes up that they should be punished for.
North Carolina has said that the fraud was confined to its academic side, over which the N.C.A.A.
has no claim.
Though convenient, this stance is consistent with profoundly held principles of scholarly independence.
North Carolina even has cited N.C.A.A.
President Mark Emmert, who in 2015 said, Its ultimately up to universities to determine whether or not the courses for which theyre giving credit, the degrees for which theyre passing out diplomas, live up to the academic standards of higher education.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This defense also plausibly lines up with the facts in the case (the athletics counselors, for instance, worked for the College of Arts and Sciences, not the athletic department).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In many ways, this case seems unlike any other.
It has gone on unusually long  more than six years since the first reports.
North Carolina has disputed aspects of the Wainstein Report it commissioned.
But the fact that North Carolina could go free after apparently violating the spirit, if not the letter, of college sports law also reflects a fundamental tension in the N.C.A.A.s conception that college athletes are students like any others.
Photo

The N.C.A.A.
is used to critics trying to tie it up in this logic by asking why, if this is so, college cellists may be paid but college running backs may not.
North Carolinas novel  and perhaps cynical  gambit was to go in the other direction, arguing that if the N.C.A.A.
truly wants to be consistent, it should let what happened slide.
There is no bylaw, the universitys attorneys wrote in a response to enforcement officials, that treats student-athletes differently than nonathlete students by preventing them from taking easy courses to balance their schedules, to boost their G.P.A.s or to remain eligible.
Indeed, they added, if there were such a rule, surely every institution in the N.C.A.A.
would need to report violations.
The N.C.A.A.
has argued the misconduct at North Carolina falls under its jurisdiction.
It has pointed to Crowders close relationship to the athletics counselors, and it has cited emails in which the counselors requested spots for athletes, arguing that the dramatically high student-athlete enrollment is a clear manifestation and illustration of the extra benefit of preferential access.
But college athletes are not barred from receiving extra benefits.
They are only barred from receiving extra benefits that the N.C.A.A.
has decided are illicit.
In fact, the N.C.A.A.
not only allows but requires colleges to furnish athletes with academic counseling services.
There are a number of benefits athletes receive through athletics, said Stephen W. Dittmore, a sports management professor at the University of Arkansas.
Academic counselors are one of those.
And the job of an academic counselor is to help athletes matriculate their way to a degree.
The N.C.A.A., in prioritizing lowering time-demands on athletes, seems to acknowledge that playing big-time college sports exacts a toll that most students do not face.
In numerous ways, it has sought to support athletes  through more expansive meal allowances, family travel reimbursements, extra cost-of-attendance money  in order to recognize, if not compensate, them for their extra troubles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the era of million-dollar sponsorships and billion-dollar TV deals, the student-athlete is a walking cognitive dissonance, and the North Carolina case has heightened the contradictions nearly to the breaking point.
Photo

DORTMUND, Germany  A brace from Cristiano Ronaldo helped Real Madrid, the two-time defending champion, to a 3-1 win at Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League group stage on Tuesday.
Ronaldo has yet to score in the Spanish league, where he sat out for five games because of suspension for shoving a referee, but he increased his tally in Europes top club competition to four goals in two games as he helped send Dortmund to its second straight defeat in Group H.

Gareth Bale put the visitors ahead with a brilliant volley to the top far corner early in the first half, then ran onto Toni Krooss pass and crossed for Ronaldo, who put it away for a goal early in the second.
Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang pulled one back almost immediately for Dortmund, but Ronaldo sealed the win late with a thumping finish to beat goalkeeper Roman Buerki at his near post.
Several N.F.L.
team owners contributed a million dollars or more to President Trumps inauguration.
Heres how they reacted after he took a shot at N.F.L.
players who protest during the national anthem.
Photo

Seth Lugo pitched two-hit ball over six innings, and Travis dArnaud hit a record-setting homer for the Mets in a 3-2 victory over the visiting Atlanta Braves on Monday night, splitting a doubleheader.
DArnauds solo shot in the eighth inning helped the Mets rebound from a 9-2 loss in the opener.
It was the 219th homer for the Mets, a franchise season record.
The sparse crowd at Citi Field jeered when the home run apple did not rise after dArnauds homer, then cheered when it finally appeared three batters later.
Lugo (7-5) turned in the best performance of his career, allowing just two singles.
Lugo struck out seven, did not issue a walk and retired the final 12 batters he faced as the Mets won for just the third time in 15 games.
Brandon Nimmo matched a career high with three hits in the nightcap, including a single off starter Max Fried (1-1) that led off the third.
Juan Lagares, who had four hits in the two games, hit the next pitch back to the mound, and Frieds throw went well over the head of first baseman Rio Ruiz for a two-base error.
Asdrubal Cabrera grounded to second to score the first run, and dArnaud followed with a double to deep center field to score Lagares.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Atlanta mounted rallies in each of the last two innings, finally breaking through against Jeurys Familia in the ninth.
Kurt Suzuki singled to begin the rally, and Freddie Freeman reached on a fielding error by Familia.
Johan Camargo grounded out to advance the runners, and Jace Peterson then singled to left to end the shutout bid.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Pinch-hitter Matt Kemp grounded to first to score Freeman, but Familia rebounded to retire pinch-hitter Tyler Flowers on a grounder to third for his fifth save and his second since his return after an operation to remove a blood clot in his right arm.
Dallass Ezekiel Elliott scored on an 8-yard run with less than five minutes remaining for his first touchdown of the season.
Palmer became the fourth N.F.L.
quarterback to throw 100 touchdown passes for more than one team.
(NYT)

EAGLES LOSE SPROLES TO DOUBLE INJURY Eagles running back Darren Sproles tore his anterior cruciate ligament and broke his wrist on the same play in Philadelphias victory over the Giants on Sunday and will miss the remainder of the season.
Coach Doug Pederson confirmed the injuries Monday, saying it was a devastating loss.
Sproles, 34, has nine returns for touchdowns, including seven on punts.
BASEBALL

No Harper, but a Win for the Nationals

Michael Taylor homered, A. J. Cole (3-5) allowed one run while pitching into the sixth inning, and the Washington Nationals beat the Phillies, 3-1, in Philadelphia.
Washington, the National League East champion, extended its franchise record with a 50th road win.
Flulike symptoms prevented the five-time All-Star Bryce Harper, out since Aug. 12 with a hyperextended knee, from making his anticipated return to the Nationals lineup.
AROUND THE MAJORS Josh Donaldson homered and drove in three runs, powering the visiting Toronto Blue Jays past the American League East-leading Red Sox, 6-4, and ending Bostons six-game winning streak.
James Shields pitched seven strong innings, Nicky Delmonico drove in two runs, and the Chicago White Sox beat the visiting Angels, 4-2, dealing a serious blow to Los Angeless slim playoff hopes.
Addison Russell hit a three-run double in the first inning, and the visiting Chicago Cubs beat the St. Louis Cardinals, 10-2, moving within a win of cinching a second straight N.L.
Central title.
SOCCER

Arsenal Extends Its September Surge

Alexandre Lacazette scored both goals as host Arsenal defeated West Bromwich Albion, 2-0, in the Premier League, prolonging a September comeback.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Arsenal lost two of its first three matches but collected 7 of a possible 9 points this month on top of victories in the Europa League and the League Cup.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Sports Newsletter Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
West Brom midfielder Gareth Barry, 36, made a record 633rd Premier League appearance in the game, passing the mark set by the former Manchester United winger Ryan Giggs.
JUVENTUS PRESIDENT GETS ONE-YEAR BAN Juventuss president, Andrea Agnelli, was barred for one year by the Italian soccer federation for his role in selling tickets to hard-core ultra fans who encouraged scalping.
The court also fined Juventus 300,000 euros ($350,000).
The team said it would appeal.
Agnelli was accused of authorizing the sale of season passes and other tickets and has acknowledged meeting with Rocco Dominello, an ultra fan linked to the Calabrian Ndrangheta crime mob who has since been sentenced to nearly eight years in prison for scalping.
But Agnelli said the meetings had occurred only with large numbers of other fans at celebratory occasions and that the club had never intended to engage in illegal activity.
REAL BETIS TOPS LEVANTE Real Betis kept the momentum going after its stunning win at Real Madrid by thrashing Levante, 4-0, and moving closer to the top of the Spanish league.
Forward Antonio Sanabria netted a goal in each half to lead Real Betis to its third straight victory.
The club moved up to fifth place, one spot ahead of Madrid.
It trails the leader, Barcelona, by 6 points.
VILLAREAL FIRES ITS COACH VILLARREAL fired Coach Fran Escrib after the teams poor start in the Spanish league and replaced him with the B team coach Javi Calleja.
The moves came a day after a 4-0 loss at Getafe, Villarreals third defeat in six league games.
Villarreal was 14th in the 20-team standings.
PRO BASKETBALL

Westbrook Says He Wants to Stay Put

Thunder guard Russell Westbrook, who has yet to sign a contract extension, said that Oklahoma City was where he wanted to be and that he was happy about the off-season additions of Carmelo Anthony, who formally completed his move to the team on Monday, and Paul George.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Westbrook said he had not signed, a situation that has tempered some of the excitement around the team, because of the birth of his son and a busy travel schedule.
He has until Oct. 16 to sign a contract that would be worth more than $200 million.
CAVS EXPECT THOMAS BACK BY JANUARY The Cleveland Cavaliers said Isaiah Thomas could be running the point by January.
Thomas, the All-Star point guard acquired from Boston over the summer in a blockbuster trade for Kyrie Irving, has made progress with his hip injury, the team said.
JAMES SAYS HIS PLANS HAVENT CHANGED LeBron James said that his intentions to finish his career with Cleveland had not changed and that he would not make a decision about his future until next summer.
James, 32, has a players option for next season worth $35.6 million.
TENNIS

U.S. Open Finalists Ousted Early in China

Sloane Stephens, the United States Open champion, and Madison Keys, the runner-up, were knocked out in the first round of the Wuhan Open in China.
In their first matches since the final at Flushing Meadows, the 17th-ranked Stephens lost to Wang Qiang of China, 6-2, 6-2, while the 12th-ranked Keys was beaten by her fellow American Varvara Lepchenko, 6-2, 7-6 (4).
HOCKEY

Mixed Results for Split Devils Squads

Thomas Greiss stopped all 25 shots in the Islanders 3-0 victory over a visiting Devils split-squad team.
Brock Nelson and Mathew Barzal scored first-period goals for the Islanders, and Johnny Boychuk added an empty-netter.
Keith Kinkaid played the entire game in goal for the Devils and made 42 saves.
In Summerside, Prince Edward Island, the remaining Devils defeated the Ottawa Senators, 8-1, in the Hockeyville Canada game.
Pavel Zacha scored two power-play goals in the first period.
Cory Schneider had 12 saves for the Devils.
RANGERS WIN IN OVERTIME Ryan McDonaghs goal at 3 minutes 51 seconds of overtime lifted the Rangers to a 3-2 victory over the visiting Philadelphia Flyers.
Henrik Lundqvist made 37 saves for the Rangers, who got goals from Rick Nash and Mika Zibanejad.
Photo

On Monday afternoon, the Yankees played their first game at home since last Wednesday, when a line drive off the bat of Todd Frazier struck a young girl in the face as she was sitting a few rows behind the third-base dugout.
The incident led to immediate calls for the Yankees to do what 10 major league teams have already done, which is to extend their protective screens at the ballpark so they run along the entire length of the first- and third-base dugouts rather than simply to where the dugouts begin near home plate.
But while several other teams announced in the wake of Wednesdays incident that they would now act to lengthen their screens as the 10 other teams have, the Yankees have not commented  nor done anything to change the dimensions of the screens now in place at the stadium.
When contacted by telephone on Monday, Yankees President Randy Levine said, Im not going to talk about the netting, and then ended the phone call.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another Yankees executive  Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel  had stated in July that the Yankees had begun discussions with the architectural firm that designed the new Yankee Stadium about possibly extending the netting now in place at the stadium.
A statement on the teams website in early August went a little further, saying the Yankees were seriously exploring additional screens.
It was real easy for everyone in our organization to see that the message of unity or equality was being pushed aside or diminished by the controversy, he said.
Mr. Jones declined to comment directly on Mr. Trumps recent comments about the N.F.L., saying, I made my mind up on this issue that I wasnt going to comment other than Im very proud of the fact that the Dallas Cowboys and our players have always stood for the flag and the recognition for the flag always.
Dallas Coach Jason Garrett opened a discussion of the pre-game demonstration by saying, Its been an interesting 48 hours for everybody.
Mr. Garrett went on to describe a series of meetings between players, coaches and ownership before the game.
The objectives as much as anything else, he said, were to somehow, some way demonstrate unity and demonstrate equality and do so without involving, in any way, the national anthem.
The demonstration at the beginning of ESPNs broadcast of Monday Night Football showed that the league was continuing to express solidarity in the wake of comments by Mr. Trump, at a political rally in Alabama and in Twitter posts, about how any players that kneel or sit during the anthem should be fired.
The situation escalated over the weekend, with Mr. Trump retweeting posts calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
Most of the leagues owners have supported their players protests or demonstrations, either through statements to the news media or by standing with the players on the field during the playing of the anthem.
Mr. Jones, however, was the first owner to kneel with his players.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Before the demonstration on Monday, no Cowboys players had participated in any sort of anthem protest, and Mr. Jones had indicated he preferred that remain the case.
I do not think the place to express yourself in society is as we recognize the American flag, he said last week in an interview with Fox Business.
So thats not the place to do anything other than honor the flag and everybody thats given up a little bit for it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But with Mr. Trumps rhetoric against the league escalating, the decision was made on Monday for the Cowboys to make a statement as a team.
The reaction online was mixed, with some people impressed by Mr. Joness supporting his players and others saying the demonstration lost some weight because it came before the anthem.
Many on social media pointed out how much vitriol the Cowboys had received in some corners despite standing for the anthem, which was interpreted by some as an indication that those complaining about the demonstration were not solely concerned about respect for the flag or anthem.
Throughout the wave of protests, the N.F.L.
has stood by its players.
Joe Lockhart, the leagues executive vice president of communications and public affairs, addressed the issue during a conference call on Monday, telling reporters, Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is.
Various players addressed the protests on Monday, the most prominent being New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who explained his rationale for locking arms with a teammate.
If you dont agree, that is fine, Mr. Brady said in a radio interview.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
Photo

One of the few players to express regret for Sundays actions was Ben Roethlisberger, the quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who claimed a miscommunication had led to his teammate, Alejandro Villanueva, being singled out as the only player seen from the field while the rest of the team remained in the tunnel before Pittsburghs game against the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field.
The idea was to be unified as a team when so much attention is paid to things dividing our country, but I wish we approached it differently, Mr. Roethlisberger wrote in a statement posted to his personal website.
We did not want to appear divided on the sideline with some standing and some kneeling or sitting.
With some form of demonstration occurring at every game on Sunday and Monday, the question going forward is whether the protests will persist into next week and beyond.
The first glimpse of what may happen will come on Thursday night when the Chicago Bears travel to Green Bay to face the Packers.
It is certainly true that some owners, most notably Arthur M. Blank of the Atlanta Falcons and Stephen M. Ross of the Miami Dolphins, have tried through charitable work to address the many thorny problems around racism, poverty and policing.
It took a rebuke from Mr. Trump to compel many of them to choose between remaining silent or publicly siding with the players.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, keeping with his preference for dramatic flourishes, went further than any other owner when he knelt with his team before the national anthem for his teams game with the Cardinals in Glendale, Ariz. Before Monday, Jones had been among the most vocal owners in saying he preferred that his players stand for the anthem.
But the public demonstration of unity and support may be short-lived.
While it is too early to know if the protests will continue, and in what form, Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars and on Sunday the first owner to be seen linking arms with his players on the sidelines, has said he would not continue the practice in the coming weeks.
Im not a crusader, but this was a Rosa Parks moment for the Jaguars, he said.
I do not plan any future sideline appearances.
The owners decision to go with the players at least this time struck some as a fallback to protecting the league brand, embodied in its ubiquitous shield emblem with the American flag motif.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This issue is about protecting the shield, said Andy Dolich, a former N.F.L.
team executive.
Theres a subliminal dollar sign in that shield, so it is fair to be cynical about the owners motives.
League executives, however, said they had minimal involvement in the owners or players actions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Saturday, the commissioner, Roger Goodell, issued a statement condemning the presidents remarks.
Several clubs then contacted the league to find out what, if anything, other teams were doing to follow up, while players across the league consulted one another on what to do.
There was a lot of sharing and the league was kind of a clearinghouse, said Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L.
spokesman.
Nearly all 32 teams released statements, but most of the owners have not commented further.
The owners, stewards of a $14 billion league, the richest and most powerful in the United States, have tried to tread carefully.
They did not ask for this moment in the political spotlight and seem in a hurry to leave it.
Football and politics dont mix easily, the Cincinnati Bengals, whose owner is Mike Brown, said in a statement Monday.
Fans come to N.F.L.
games to watch great competition on the playing field and thats where our focus should be.
While some of the owners said they support the players right to speak out, they also worry about a backlash and recognize that many spectators object to protests during the national anthem.
At this point, I want to get away from politics and if they are going to continue protest, then I dont need to spend my money there, said Brandon Gill, a realtor from Jacksonville, Fla., who is considering giving up his Jaguars season tickets.
Frankly, Im just tired of it all.
A state legislator in Louisiana, Kenneth Havard, a Republican, said he wants to take away millions of dollars in subsidies and tax breaks that the New Orleans Saints and the N.F.L.
receive because they have allowed players to protest during the national anthem.
Disrespecting our national anthem and flag in the name of social injustice is the highest form of hypocrisy, Mr. Havard said in a statement.
It is time the taxpayers quit subsidizing protest on big boy playgrounds.
I believe in the right to protest but not at a taxpayer subsidized sporting event.
Then again, with calls for boycotts of the N.F.L.
over Mr. Kaepernicks not being hired, it is fair to say objections are coming from the right and left.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

N.F.L.
owners are nothing if not businessmen, so until attendance declines precipitously, or it can be determined that the protests have directly led to a decline in television ratings, they are unlikely to clamp down on the protests.
Indeed, the league got a pat on the back on Monday when Ford and Nike, two big N.F.L.
sponsors, issued statements backing the players right to protest.
Obviously, now we have the opportunity to turn the page a little bit, General Manager Scott Perry said, addressing Anthonys departure.
So were looking forward to moving ahead, establishing the culture that we want to have here and how were going to play as a basketball team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Knicks will begin training camp in earnest on Tuesday, their first without Anthony since 2010.
As of Friday, that did not seem to be a likely scenario.
The Knicks and Anthony appeared to be locked in a stalemate, each side willing to go their separate ways but with no viable trade on the horizon.
But by Friday night, Anthony, who had a no-trade clause in his Knicks contract, apparently began to show more flexibility in where he might be willing to be traded.
By early Saturday morning, Perry said, a deal had come together between the Knicks and Thunder, who will have Anthony join forces with Russell Westbrook, Paul George and Steven Adams.
Photo

It will make the Thunder a formidable outfit, although the Western Conference still has a giant obstacle in the Golden State Warriors.
But the deal provides the 33-year-old Anthony with a chance to go deep into the playoffs for the first time in his career.
In an interview with NBA TV on Monday, he acknowledged that possibility.
It came to a point, O.K., I really got to get serious about my career, he said.
Im not getting younger.
The only thing Im missing is winning and kind of just getting that joy back, getting that feel back and kind of feeling refreshed.
I feel like that now.
As for his online farewell letter, it turned out to be a lengthy, and emotional, love letter to New York City that contained few specific references to his time on the Knicks but did include plenty of sentimental phrases, like love at first sight and You helped me laugh.
You dried my tears.
Because of you, I have no fears.
Meanwhile, what the Knicks received in exchange for Anthony is Kanter, a center with ample scoring skill and a reputation as a poor defender; and McDermott, a potential marksman from the perimeter.
Both are just 25, and the Knicks consider their youth an asset as they transition to a young roster that they hope can emerge as a contender over the next few seasons.
Photo

Kanter, who is making $18 million this season, does give the Knicks a glut of big men, especially when Joakim Noah returns from a drug suspension that will force him to miss the first 12 games of the season.
How much Kanter will actually get to play remains to be seen, but on Monday he could hardly contain his excitement about where he ended up.
I woke up in the middle of the night and punched myself, he said of his reaction when he learned he was coming to New York.
I said, Is this a dream?
Is this really happening?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kanter joins a team that now revolves around Porzingis.
Although Tim Hardaway Jr. has returned to the Knicks as a marquee free agent addition, and Frank Ntilikina was the eighth overall pick in the N.B.A.
Draft, Porzingis is the centerpiece.
In his first two years as a Knick, he has proved to be a dynamic scorer, athletic outlier and stout defender at the rim.
Now, he will have to prove he can do it without Anthony as the teams focal point.
It also remains to be seen where Porzingis and the Knicks stand with each other.
On Monday, Porzingis spoke in a formal setting as a Knick for the first time since he skipped the teams exit meetings after the end of last season.
He showed little interest in revisiting what led him to snub the Knicks at that point and instead gazed ahead toward the coming season.
Asked if he thought he would be an All-Star this year, Porzingis said he believed he would.
Im coming into this season with a fresh mind, he said.
Its a new season.
I want to leave what happened, I want to leave the past.
The past is the past.
I dont want to talk about that no more.
I want to talk about this season.
Im just excited to be here.
We discuss why Chad was included in the new travel ban, and how revisions to the order could affect a politically charged legal case.
Heres what you need to know to start your day.
Heres what you need to know at the end of the day.
A look at the fall foliage, a fast-moving fire in Corona, and ranking happiness in the Golden State.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
Levels of some nutrients may go up with cooking.
But levels of others go down.
Bee Shapiro, Skin Deep columnist, is answering your questions about everyday makeup.
North Korea is anxious to avoid a war it cant win, analysts say, and is careful to leave itself a rhetorical way out of its threats.
With the island lacking power, water and fuel, Gov.
Ricardo A. Rossell said Puerto Rico deserved the same treatment as hurricane-hit states and urged Congress to move swiftly to send more aid.
White House officials said President Trump is deeply worried that his recent show of bipartisanship endangers his standing with conservatives.
Art leaders like Ai Weiwei are concerned that museums are setting a worrisome precedent after protests led to the removal of three works featuring animals from a coming show.
As Renewal, Mayor Bill de Blasios signature education program, enters its fourth school year, results are mixed at best and the city must decide the fate of schools taking part.
A federal appeals panel cited the same Supreme Court decision used to vacate the conviction of Sheldon Silver, the former Assembly speaker.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Even players admit to feeling conflicted, with limits on hitting extending to practices where they practice  hitting.
I miss some of the old ways, Giants center Weston Richburg said.
Having someone banging against your pads in practice does help you prepare for the amped up intensity of a game.
Photo

Are you ready?
Because in a game, everyone is moving at full speed and pads are popping.
But at the same time, current players look at retirees from the game and see how many of them are hobbled or mentally infirm.
Players today began youth or high school football before all the new rules, penalties and restrictions were enacted.
They grew up, as many fans did, with an almost primal attraction to footballs aggression.
The players long to be safer; several have told me of the desire to one day play with their grandchildren.
But they also want to play football.
Its a game where you hit people, the Pro Bowl linebacker Jon Beason told me two years ago.
You cant get away from that and I dont want to.
The hitting in practice, for instance, you weed out a lot of guys.
You know whos really down for the cause.
Its essential.
But theyve taken that away.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is true that N.F.L.
teams no longer do blocking and tackling in the vast majority of practices.
A modern N.F.L.
practice is more like a glorified game of touch football.
No one gets knocked around.
If someone is on the ground, he probably tripped.
Behind the lack of hard contact, is a cold, hard business decision.
Coaches and league executives are worried about injuries to players whom they pay on average about $2 million annually.
The impetus for change was new awareness about the dangers of concussions, head trauma and injuries of all kinds in a bruising game, along with the research that showed that more injuries occur in practice than games.
And again, at the major college and N.F.L.
level, protecting the players also meant protecting the bottom line.
When a star like Tom Brady of the New England Patriots was seriously injured and missed the 2008 season  on a hit that would now be ruled illegal  television ratings slipped, though there may have been other contributing factors behind that.
Photo

It might be telling that N.F.L.
players who played both before and after the new contact restrictions were established tend to welcome them.
The recently retired Giants guard Chris Snee, who remembers when linemen greeted opponents with a meaty slap on the head as plays began, said he appreciated the added protection.
Rules against shots to the head made a lot of sense to me, said Snee, a four-time Pro Bowl selection.
Snee also insisted, however, that the football field still remains no place for the meek.
Guys are bigger and faster and just as physical, he said.
Its still tough out there, Im sure of that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Other players who remember when there were virtually no safeguards against blindside and helmet-to-helmet hits bristled at the suggestion that the N.F.L.
had somehow gone soft.
Joe Theismann, the former Washington Redskins quarterback whose leg was gruesomely broken during a nationally televised game in 1985, called the sport as violent as its ever been.
Trust me, these guys hit just as hard, Theismann said Tuesday.
If you really watch the hits up close, you would not say the game is getting soft.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Which may be entirely the point.
On the sideline, where I have watched plenty of games, the speed and size of the mammoth players, the ferocity of the collisions, the constant crack of pads pounding pads, usually leaves the uninitiated awe-struck but also a little shaken.
Ive taken people down to the field, escorted them to within inches of the playing field and watched.
After a play or two, they usually start retreating to a safer distance  5 or 10 yards from the maelstrom.
It does not make them soft.
If anything, it seems to give them an informed understanding of what it takes to play professional football.
Several N.F.L.
team owners contributed a million dollars or more to President Trumps inauguration.
Heres how they reacted after he took a shot at N.F.L.
players who protest during the national anthem.
Photo

For the many people who believe that N.F.L.
players who kneel during the national anthem are disrespecting American armed forces, Pat Tillman was a perfect symbol.
But Marie Tillman, who was married to Corporal Tillman when he left a lucrative contract with the Arizona Cardinals to join the Army, has asked the hundreds of people invoking him in the debate over the players kneeling to stop politicizing his memory.
That group included President Trump, who on Monday retweeted an account praising the memory of the Cardinals star, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, and calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
It was just one of many dozens of tweets over the weekend that contrasted Corporal Tillmans service with the demonstrations during the national anthem, which started as a way for players to call attention to racial injustice.
For those who viewed the gesture as spoiled or self-absorbed, Corporal Tillman represented an antithesis.
By the time Mr. Trump added his voice, the pushback had already begun, as people pointed out that Corporal Tillman was a less-than-convenient symbol for pride in the armed forces.
After he was killed in Afghanistan in 2004, the Army initially said that Afghan militants had been responsible.
It took nearly five weeks for the Tillman family to find out that he had been fatally shot by Army Rangers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Mr. Trumps retweet, many also pointed out that the former football player had been a critic of the war in Iraq and of President George W. Bush.
Corporal Tillman was an intellectually curious, independent thinker interested in World War II and the works of the left-wing professor Noam Chomsky.
On Monday, Marie Tillman, who rarely speaks publicly, said that her husband deserved to be remembered as a symbol of unity.
It was real easy for everyone in our organization to see that the message of unity or equality was being pushed aside or diminished by the controversy, he said.
Mr. Jones declined to comment directly on Mr. Trumps recent comments about the N.F.L., saying, I made my mind up on this issue that I wasnt going to comment other than Im very proud of the fact that the Dallas Cowboys and our players have always stood for the flag and the recognition for the flag always.
Dallas Coach Jason Garrett opened a discussion of the pre-game demonstration by saying, Its been an interesting 48 hours for everybody.
Mr. Garrett went on to describe a series of meetings between players, coaches and ownership before the game.
The objectives as much as anything else, he said, were to somehow, some way demonstrate unity and demonstrate equality and do so without involving, in any way, the national anthem.
The demonstration at the beginning of ESPNs broadcast of Monday Night Football showed that the league was continuing to express solidarity in the wake of comments by Mr. Trump, at a political rally in Alabama and in Twitter posts, about how any players that kneel or sit during the anthem should be fired.
The situation escalated over the weekend, with Mr. Trump retweeting posts calling for a boycott of the N.F.L.
Most of the leagues owners have supported their players protests or demonstrations, either through statements to the news media or by standing with the players on the field during the playing of the anthem.
Mr. Jones, however, was the first owner to kneel with his players.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Before the demonstration on Monday, no Cowboys players had participated in any sort of anthem protest, and Mr. Jones had indicated he preferred that remain the case.
I do not think the place to express yourself in society is as we recognize the American flag, he said last week in an interview with Fox Business.
So thats not the place to do anything other than honor the flag and everybody thats given up a little bit for it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But with Mr. Trumps rhetoric against the league escalating, the decision was made on Monday for the Cowboys to make a statement as a team.
The reaction online was mixed, with some people impressed by Mr. Joness supporting his players and others saying the demonstration lost some weight because it came before the anthem.
Many on social media pointed out how much vitriol the Cowboys had received in some corners despite standing for the anthem, which was interpreted by some as an indication that those complaining about the demonstration were not solely concerned about respect for the flag or anthem.
Throughout the wave of protests, the N.F.L.
has stood by its players.
Joe Lockhart, the leagues executive vice president of communications and public affairs, addressed the issue during a conference call on Monday, telling reporters, Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is.
Various players addressed the protests on Monday, the most prominent being New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who explained his rationale for locking arms with a teammate.
If you dont agree, that is fine, Mr. Brady said in a radio interview.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
Photo

One of the few players to express regret for Sundays actions was Ben Roethlisberger, the quarterback of the Pittsburgh Steelers, who claimed a miscommunication had led to his teammate, Alejandro Villanueva, being singled out as the only player seen from the field while the rest of the team remained in the tunnel before Pittsburghs game against the Chicago Bears at Soldier Field.
The idea was to be unified as a team when so much attention is paid to things dividing our country, but I wish we approached it differently, Mr. Roethlisberger wrote in a statement posted to his personal website.
We did not want to appear divided on the sideline with some standing and some kneeling or sitting.
With some form of demonstration occurring at every game on Sunday and Monday, the question going forward is whether the protests will persist into next week and beyond.
The first glimpse of what may happen will come on Thursday night when the Chicago Bears travel to Green Bay to face the Packers.
It is certainly true that some owners, most notably Arthur M. Blank of the Atlanta Falcons and Stephen M. Ross of the Miami Dolphins, have tried through charitable work to address the many thorny problems around racism, poverty and policing.
It took a rebuke from Mr. Trump to compel many of them to choose between remaining silent or publicly siding with the players.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, keeping with his preference for dramatic flourishes, went further than any other owner when he knelt with his team before the national anthem for his teams game with the Cardinals in Glendale, Ariz. Before Monday, Jones had been among the most vocal owners in saying he preferred that his players stand for the anthem.
But the public demonstration of unity and support may be short-lived.
While it is too early to know if the protests will continue, and in what form, Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars and on Sunday the first owner to be seen linking arms with his players on the sidelines, has said he would not continue the practice in the coming weeks.
Im not a crusader, but this was a Rosa Parks moment for the Jaguars, he said.
I do not plan any future sideline appearances.
The owners decision to go with the players at least this time struck some as a fallback to protecting the league brand, embodied in its ubiquitous shield emblem with the American flag motif.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This issue is about protecting the shield, said Andy Dolich, a former N.F.L.
team executive.
Theres a subliminal dollar sign in that shield, so it is fair to be cynical about the owners motives.
League executives, however, said they had minimal involvement in the owners or players actions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Saturday, the commissioner, Roger Goodell, issued a statement condemning the presidents remarks.
Several clubs then contacted the league to find out what, if anything, other teams were doing to follow up, while players across the league consulted one another on what to do.
There was a lot of sharing and the league was kind of a clearinghouse, said Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L.
spokesman.
Nearly all 32 teams released statements, but most of the owners have not commented further.
The owners, stewards of a $14 billion league, the richest and most powerful in the United States, have tried to tread carefully.
They did not ask for this moment in the political spotlight and seem in a hurry to leave it.
Football and politics dont mix easily, the Cincinnati Bengals, whose owner is Mike Brown, said in a statement Monday.
Fans come to N.F.L.
games to watch great competition on the playing field and thats where our focus should be.
While some of the owners said they support the players right to speak out, they also worry about a backlash and recognize that many spectators object to protests during the national anthem.
At this point, I want to get away from politics and if they are going to continue protest, then I dont need to spend my money there, said Brandon Gill, a realtor from Jacksonville, Fla., who is considering giving up his Jaguars season tickets.
Frankly, Im just tired of it all.
A state legislator in Louisiana, Kenneth Havard, a Republican, said he wants to take away millions of dollars in subsidies and tax breaks that the New Orleans Saints and the N.F.L.
receive because they have allowed players to protest during the national anthem.
Disrespecting our national anthem and flag in the name of social injustice is the highest form of hypocrisy, Mr. Havard said in a statement.
It is time the taxpayers quit subsidizing protest on big boy playgrounds.
I believe in the right to protest but not at a taxpayer subsidized sporting event.
Then again, with calls for boycotts of the N.F.L.
over Mr. Kaepernicks not being hired, it is fair to say objections are coming from the right and left.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

N.F.L.
owners are nothing if not businessmen, so until attendance declines precipitously, or it can be determined that the protests have directly led to a decline in television ratings, they are unlikely to clamp down on the protests.
Indeed, the league got a pat on the back on Monday when Ford and Nike, two big N.F.L.
sponsors, issued statements backing the players right to protest.
What I want to know is why we gave up 23 points to the Bears; no one seems to be talking about that, said Rose Morton, who on Monday was waiting for a train wearing a black Steelers T-shirt emblazoned with the words RINGS DONT LIE and the dates of the Steelers six Super Bowl wins.
Football isnt politics.
Football is football.
This was not the first time Pittsburgh had found itself thrown into a national political argument that it had not asked for.
In early June, Trump announced his decision to pull out of the international climate agreement by explaining that he was elected to represent the president of Pittsburgh, not Paris.
This grated here but also amused; the smoggy Steel City stereotype is almost humorously outdated in a city of self-driving cars and Google-shirted shoppers at Trader Joes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But to start a debate within the sports teams  and the Steelers in particular, winners in the steeltown era and winners in the tech hub era, too  may cut deeper than a misbranding of the citys economic base.
The issues that are being discussed are absolutely critical to this nation, said the mayor, Bill Peduto, referring to the racial inequity and police brutality highlighted by players who take a knee and Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army ranger and Bronze star recipient who was the sole Steeler to stand outside the tunnel for the anthem.
But this just is a way of dividing us in one of the areas we have always been able to unite, he said.
It should be that part of Pittsburgh that takes over our politics, not Washington politics taking over Pittsburgh.
Many people here, both supporters and critics of Trump, saw the Penguins announcement as an innocuous if rather oddly-timed statement about keeping a tradition of White House visits.
The teams president, David Morehouse, worked in the Clinton administration, and one of its owners, Ron Burkle, is a well-known Clinton donor.
The N.H.L.
is bipartisan, said Joel Hollies, 34, a bartender sitting before a couple of empty Miller High Life bottles in a Penguin-festooned bar on the south side of town.
I bet Trump cant name four players on the Pens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The conversation was almost exclusively about the Steelers, not only because the teams decision was the one outside the norm but also because, among the citys professional franchises, the Steelers are first among equals.
The fan base tends to be older than that of the Penguins, said Gene Collier, a columnist for The Post-Gazette, in large part because the Steelers were very good long before the Penguins were very good, and the Steelers have now been good for decades (the Pirates, Pittsburghs major league baseball team, have had longer stretches of not being very good).
Steelers loyalty runs deep, but among some, this was tested by the teams decision on Sunday.
Some threatened to burn jerseys or junk season tickets.
Photo

What they did really sickens me; its changed my opinion of them, said Kristen Trosky, a bartender and lifelong Steelers fan who heard fans complain all day on Sunday.
Its like if youre invited to a wedding, and youre not the same religion as the bride or groom.
You still follow their customs and respect their traditions.
Its not up to you to voice your opinion there.
And the tradition at football games is you stand up during the national anthem.
Mr. Hollies found this unconvincing.
The team had not injected politics into this past Sunday; the president had.
In fact, Mr. Hollies said, echoing the comments by Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin, by staying in the tunnel the team had been trying to avoid politics.
The staying in the locker room is a nonissue, its just Trump supporters who think its the issue, he said.
They support Trump more than they support the Steelers.
Its disgusting.
This was not universally true.
At an Eatn Park diner south of the city, Bill Powers, a veteran, Steelers fan and Trump voter, explained that he did not like when players took a knee during the anthem.
But he also saw that Mr. Tomlin had a difficult matter to deal with while also maintaining player discipline and unity.
Rather than have some players stand and some kneel on the sideline, it made sense to avoid the issue altogether.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I wasnt offended in any way, Mr.
Powers said.
It was a coaching call to keep the team focused.
The real mystery, he went on, was why the president he voted for decided to pick a fight with the N.F.L.
in the first place.
What was he thinking?
Powers said.
Then, possibly answering his own question, he added, Sometimes he just doesnt think.
But live sports, and particularly the N.F.L., have become increasingly defined by their television ratings.
For the past decade, ratings across television have fallen because of expanding cable packages, competition from streaming services and DVRs, and the ubiquity of smartphones.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Live sports have proved mostly immune from this trend.
Until now.
The N.F.L.s regular season ratings fell by about 8 percent from 2015 to 2016, a drop that has been subject to all manner of explanation.
Some believed news coverage of the polarizing presidential race siphoned off viewership, pointing out that ratings improved after the election.
Others cited a dearth of stars on the field  a consequence of Peyton Mannings retirement and Tom Bradys suspension  and a lack of compelling games.
Increased awareness of concussions and of the physical toll of football, high-profile cases of domestic abuse by players and disgust over protests during the national anthem all have been blamed, too.
The unsatisfying truth is that N.F.L.
ratings are a Rorschach test, often revealing more about the test taker than the subject.
Ratings for the first week of this season dropped by 12 percent from last year, but those games were played the day Hurricane Irma landed in Florida, when millions of viewers were tuned to coverage of the storm instead of football.
Ratings for Week 2 were down by 15 percent  but only by 4 percent if one factors in that the Thursday night game was only broadcast on the N.F.L.
Network, while last year it was on both the N.F.L.
Network and CBS, which has a wider reach.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Then, on Friday night, during a rally in Alabama, President Trump said owners of N.F.L.
teams should fire any player that kneels during the national anthem.
He went on to say that N.F.L.
ratings were down massively, massively, and implored fans to leave the stadium if any player kneels during the anthem.
League executives were cautiously optimistic that Trumps comments would boost ratings for Week 3 games on Sunday, and they might have been right.
The unofficial overnight ratings for Sundays games were down by about 4 percent, but it is likely that the overall Week 3 ratings will rise with strong viewership for the Dallas Cowboys on Monday night, coupled with high numbers from last Thursdays game.
In an interesting wrinkle, while ratings for the games themselves were incomplete, CBS said ratings for its pregame show rose by 33 percent, while Foxs two pregame shows were up by 30 percent (from 11 a.m. to noon Eastern) and 9 percent (from noon until the 1 p.m. kickoffs).
On Tuesday morning, Trump raised the topic again on Twitter, saying, Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
The N.F.L.
is still by far the most popular sport in the United States, and its games the most popular live sports events on television, but viewership is clearly trending down.
Trying to parse out why is difficult.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This summer, a J.D.
Power survey of sports fans reported that 26 percent of fans who said they watched fewer N.F.L.
games did so because of protests during the national anthem, according to an ESPN report.
But only 12 percent of sports fans said they watched fewer N.F.L.
games  meaning only 3 percent of respondents over all said they watched fewer games because of protests  and 27 percent of fans surveyed said they actually watched more games than they had the previous year.
According to Mike Mulvihill, Fox Sportss head of research, nearly 203 million people watched some part of the N.F.L.
regular season in 2016, a 5 percent increase from the previous year.
The declines were about a growing pool of fans spending less time with the games each week, he told SportsBusiness Journal.
That suggests the ratings decline was the result of hard-core fans becoming casual ones rather than viewers tuning out altogether.
The 8 percent drop in ratings between 2015 and 2016 amounted to about 1.4 million fewer people watching each N.F.L.
game on average, though ascribing a single motivation to that many people is folly.
All of the above reasons, and more, are factors, and it is extraordinarily difficult to understand how important any one of them is on the overall numbers.
Across all live sports, though, it is likely that ratings will continue to drop.
Viewers are continuing to abandon their cable packages, or refusing to sign up in the first place.
And as more and more games become available, watching any single one loses importance.
Games will continue to shift from network television to cable to internet streaming services, which are available to a smaller customer base.
The end result is that, for all manner of reasons, fans simply will watch more or fewer games.
But by next Monday afternoon, when the Week 4 N.F.L.
ratings will be revealed, political preference will be read into them yet again.
Im not going to do it again next week, he said.
I didnt want to do it this week.
This all had to do with President Trumps comments.
Thats the only reason that we did that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kenneth Shropshire, who runs the Global Sport Institute at Arizona State University, is the author of the book In Black and White: Race and Sports in America.
He has some interesting thoughts on the effectiveness of protest movements, and he worries that the N.F.L.
movement might be fleeting.
To effect real change, Mr. Shropshire told me, the demonstrations cant disappear in a flash.
But their staying power depends on the reason the players and owners were spurred to action.
At the player level, it really was someone saying on the street, Yo mama, he said.
And at the basest level, nobody can talk about your mother without some retribution.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the owner level, he said, any continued displays of solidarity will depend how much of the protest stemmed from owners anger that the president had told them how to run their businesses.
Their thinking might be, How dare this person get into my business?
he said.
So itll be interesting if some owner signs Kaepernick now, just to show that Trump cant engage in their business.
The real problem with players who focus solely on Mr. Trumps comments is that he will have succeeded in steering attention away from the original issues  racism and police brutality.
On Sunday, everyone seemed to be consumed by a different matter: whether it is appropriate to kneel during the anthem.
Vernon Davis, a Redskins tight end, said he had an idea for how to get beyond the bickering and properly engage on the real issues: Gather top players from each of the professional leagues and have them meet with Mr. Trump at the White House.
We have some of the largest platforms there is, he said.
Were huge influences when it comes to people.
He added: Why not just come together and make it right?
Because there is an issue, there is a problem, for sure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Davis said he would gladly meet with Mr. Trump, but only at the right time, which he said would be outside of football season.
So Mr. Davis, at least, has put everything on hold until February.
By then, the opportunity might be gone.
Richard Lapchick, the director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport, said that if a strong core of players would be willing to start  or continue  the conversation about racial equality and justice in their communities, the movement could grow quickly.
Sunday was the most important sports day since Ali decided not to fight in Vietnam, Mr. Lapchick said.
Yes, I think it was that big.
What we dont do in America is talk about these issues openly, but now we could easily create a forum where athletes and city leaders and front offices and police can discuss racial justice.
Right now we dont have any of that kind of unity in our communities.
Redskins cornerback Josh Norman said he would be up for that kind of outreach.
After Sundays game, he stood at his locker long after every other player left the room and talked about President Trump and about freedom and how something in this country has to change.
He said he was so sickened and disturbed by the presidents insults that he couldnt stop thinking about his place in the world, and that the game came secondary.
What about next weekends game?
For now, Mr. Norman said, he was thinking about how to make things better and exercising his right to be free.
The next few years were even more of a whirlwind: winning a Bronze Star for valor as a platoon leader in Afghanistan; completing Ranger school, the Armys premier leadership course and one of the most challenging tests in the military; serving two more tours in Afghanistan in the elite Ranger Regiment; and eventually winning a starting job and a four-year, $24 million contract with the Steelers.
Now, Villanueva has one more bit of fame: He was the only member of the Steelers to walk out of the tunnel during the playing of the national anthem before Sundays game against the Chicago Bears.
He held his hand over his heart while the song played.
His teammates remained several feet behind him, just inside the tunnel  notably not on the field, in protest of President Trump and his comments about the N.F.L.
Villanueva, a 6-foot-8, 320-pound lineman who was born in Mississippi but is the son of a Spanish naval officer, did not speak with the news media after Sundays game.
But as his anthem appearance became the subject of heated debate on Monday, he spoke to reporters in Pittsburgh and said that he had inadvertently gotten separated from his team.
He said he had intended to stand at the end of the tunnel where no one would see him, and watch from there as the anthem was played.
But once he realized he was visibly outside, he decided he could not turn around and go back to where his teammates were standing, a few feet inside the tunnel.
Do you walk out of the national anthem and join your teammates?
Villanueva said.
That would have looked extremely bad.
He added: I never planned to boycott the plan that the Steelers came up with.
I just thought that there could be some middle ground where I could stay in the tunnel, nobody would see me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In past interviews, Villanueva has expressed solidarity with the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernicks sideline protests over racism toward African-Americans.
But he has also previously questioned whether Kaepernicks approach inadvertently suggested a lack of appreciation for service members whose sacrifices have made such protests possible.
I was one of the first ones who took offense when Colin Kaepernick took a knee, Villanueva said Monday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But he also said he has not been offended by N.F.L.
players taking a knee during the national anthem recently, saying, I dont think as a veteran, I take offense.
Nobody thinks that when youre taking a knee, youre offending the flag, he said.
Similarly, he said, I dont think anyone standing for the flag is not respecting the fact that there is a lot of injustices and racial divide in our country.
As for his own choice going forward, he said, Im going to stand up for the national anthem.
A major regret for Villanueva was the fact that his actions made his teammates and his coach look bad as they scrambled to explain why he was the only player visible.
Unfortunately, I threw them under the bus unintentionally, he said.
Every single time I see that picture of me standing by myself, I feel embarrassed.
He declined to comment on President Trump and his comments that players who refuse to stand for the anthem should be fired from the N.F.L.
After the Steelers loss on Sunday, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger said the team agreed at a players-only meeting on Saturday night to remain in the locker room or tunnel during the anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asked whether it was a problem that Villanueva had appeared for the anthem when the rest of the team had not, Roethlisberger said only, No.
In a news conference on Monday, Roethlisberger expanded on that answer, telling a similar story to the one offered by Villanueva, while citing the carrying of a Bears flag into the tunnel as the reason Villanueva got separated from his teammates.
Like a lot of combat veterans, Villanuevas time overseas appears to have helped frame his perspective on the rest of his life, including playing professional football.
When asked about being one of the leagues lowest-paid starting left tackles  a position that guards his quarterbacks blind side and often commands a premium in the N.F.L.
he pointed out that others had endured far more serious challenges.
I was deployed three times, he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette last year.
Ive got so many things, so many other situations in my life where it couldve been the opposite.
It could have been like, Man, would you rather be walking on both your legs?
Or, Would you rather still have all your limbs and whatnot?
These scenarios of whether youre getting $24 million or someone else is getting 46  to me, thats irrelevant.
Villanueva has also expressed ambivalence about receiving the Bronze Star, because a soldier he rescued, Pfc.
Jesse Dietrich, later died.
In my case, my platoon was hammered time after time, Villanueva told ESPN.
A lot of people were getting wounded, and a lot of people were getting hurt.
When you have leaders that are still carrying the team and still pushing, theyll find an opportunity to say that night, 25th of August, this guy was overwhelmed, and he reacted by putting his own life at risk.
But if you truly think about it, thats what I was supposed to do, he added.
Because what was I going to do, leave the guy out there?
Even before Villanuevas harrowing experiences overseas, those who knew him at West Point said, it would have been hard for him to miss the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has an intense love for his country, and he always did the utmost to make that apparent, said Captain Harrison, who is now a student at the Armys Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
Brady spoke Monday morning on the Kirk & Callahan show on WEEI.
He said of Trumps remarks: Yeah, I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive.
Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say: Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were all different, were all unique.
That is what makes us all special.
Everyone deals with different challenges in their life and you respect everyones opinions and views, he said.
You dont have to agree with everything.
Its hard to agree with your own wife on everything from day-to-day.
I have so much respect for my teammates and what were trying to accomplish.
Hopefully we can keep marching toward this end of the season, keep making improvements, get better and win more football games.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about.
After the anthem on Sunday, Brady led the Patriots to a come-from-behind 36-33 victory over the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Despite his friendship with Trump, Bradys vote in the last election remains something of a mystery.
Trump claimed Brady backed him, but Bradys wife, the model Gisele Bndchen, denied that.
The former Patriot tackle Matt Light was one ex-player who took exception to the protests.
If you think that its OK to take a knee during our national anthem and disrespect openly the national anthem, you are wrong, Light told The Boston Herald.
It would have never happened during my time, he said.
Its the first time Ive ever been ashamed to be a Patriot.
And I promise you Im not the only one.
Trump raised the issue again on Monday morning on Twitter, praising Nascar drivers for respecting the anthem and denying his stand had anything to do with race.
Photo

The singer and producer Pharrell Williams is the latest entertainer to show solidarity with N.F.L.
players protesting President Trumps call to fire players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
At a charity show on Sunday in Charlottesville, Va., where violent demonstrations took place in August, Mr. Williams said, Im in Virginia right now, Im home.
Cant nobody tell me what to do if I want to get on my knees right now.
He then dropped onto both knees.
Mr. Williamss display follows a wave of demonstrations across the country on Sunday as N.F.L.
players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem in defiance of Mr. Trump.
The Take a Knee protest has now grown beyond the sporting world, and entertainers and performers are joining in.
The symbolic action began in August 2016, when Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, knelt to protest police brutality and racial injustice.
Mr. Trump stirred up the issue anew by saying said in a speech on Friday and then in a series of tweets over the weekend that players who do not stand during the anthem should be fired.
In Charlottesville, Mr. Williams paused between songs to say: For the people of my city, for the people of my state, thats what that flag is for.
When I think about the potential of this country and the potential of this state, potential of these people, potential of this amazing university, there is only one word that I feel on the inside.
The artist then began singing his Grammy Award-winning hit Happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Other performers have joined the Take a Knee demonstration.
At the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, Stevie Wonder knelt on stage and said, Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees.
Photo

Mr. Wonder made the gesture again the following night, at the same Charlottesville show where Mr. Williams was performing.
Mr. Wonder was on stage with Dave Matthews Band when he took to two knees, and Dave Matthews joined him in the stance.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
Advertisement

What Every N.F.L.
Team Did During the National Anthem on Sunday

Widespread calls for demonstrations at Sunday's games erupted after President Trump's comments this weekend criticizing players for kneeling during the national anthem and owners for tolerating the displays.
Starting with Jacksonvilles game against Baltimore in London, players, coaches and several owners protested across the league .
Here is a look at what each team did during the playing of the national anthem:

Image Officials stand in front of an empty bench during the national anthem before the Seahawks-Titans game.
Credit Mark Zaleski/Associated Press

Seattle Seahawks at Tennessee Titans

In the days largest protest so far, neither team was on the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem.
While the Titans not participating was something of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not participate.
As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem, the team said in a statement.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Advertisement

The complete lack of players made for a bizarre scene in which team mascots and game officials were the only figures television cameras could focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after the songs conclusion the players began running onto the field.
Image Credit Top: Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images; Charles Rex Arbogast/Associated Press

Pittsburgh Steelers at Chicago Bears

Another dramatic demonstration came from the Pittsburgh Steelers, who were playing the Bears at Soldier Field in Chicago.
The entire Steelers team remained off the field during the playing of the national anthem, while some of the teams coaches, including Mike Tomlin, were on the sideline.
The one Pittsburgh player seen during the anthem was Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who served in Afghanistan, who was in the tunnel with his hand over his heart.
The players took the field at the conclusion of the anthem.
Bears stood on the sideline with their arms linked together.
Image Credit Top: Al Bello/Getty Images; Seth Wenig/Associated Press

Miami Dolphins at Jets

Christopher Johnson, the acting owner of the Jets, joined his players in locking arms during the anthem.
The Jets have yet to comment on Mr. Trumps remarks in spite of the fact that Johnsons father, Woody, is a close ally of the president and the current ambassador to Britain.
Shaun King, a columnist for The Intercept who is closely associated with the Black Lives Matter movement, claimed Jets players were discouraged from protesting.
The Dolphins had several players wear #IMWITHKAP T-shirts in support of Colin Kaepernick, the player whose own protests last season started the movement that is now boiling over.
The team also had players linking arms, with several kneeling.
Image Credit Top: Matt Dunham/Associated Press; Paul Childs/Reuters

Baltimore Ravens at Jacksonville Jaguars (London)

In London, the game between the Ravens and the Jaguars began with the anthem being played as more than a dozen players from the two teams knelt for the duration of the anthem.
Coach John Harbaugh of the Ravens, Coach Doug Marrone of the Jaguars and Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jaguars, stood locking arms with players and coaches on the field as well.
After the American anthem had concluded, the kneeling players all stood for the British national anthem.
Image Credit Top: David Butler Ii/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Jim Rogash/Getty Images

Houston Texans at New England Patriots

The Patriots have often been seen as allies of Mr. Trump.
The president has claimed to be friendly with the teams owner, Robert Kraft, and its star, Tom Brady.
But Mr. Kraft condemned the presidents remarks, and the Patriots were one of the many teams to demonstrate during the anthem, with Brady locking arms with many of his teammates while around 20 players chose to kneel.
The Texans players all chose to lock arms.
Image Credit Top: Matt Rourke/Associated Press; Michael Perez/Associated Press

Giants at Philadelphia Eagles

Philadelphias owner, Jeffrey Lurie, joined the Eagles players on the sideline, locking arms as a group, while some of the team split off to surround Malcolm Jenkins, a player who since last season has stood with a raised fist during the anthem.
Torrey Smith and Marcus Johnson also raised their fists this week.
Olivier Vernon, Landon Collins and Damon Harrison of the Giants became the first players from that team to kneel during the anthem, while the rest of the team stood with arms linked.
After a touchdown in the second half, Odell Beckham Jr. dropped the ball and stood in the end zone with a raised fist, continuing the demonstrations from earlier in the day.
Image Credit Top: Kelvin Kuo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images

Kansas City Chiefs at Los Angeles Chargers

Melvin Ingram knelt, a group of five players sat and the rest of the Chargers locked arms during the anthem.
On the other side of the field, the Chiefs were in an interesting position, as that teams chairman, Clark Hunt, has regularly stated that he prefers that his players stand for the anthem.
But Hunt somewhat backed away from that stance with a statement that read, in part, We believe in honoring the American flag and supporting all of those whose sacrifices protect the many freedoms with have in this country, including the right to have differences of opinion.
Some of the Chiefs players were seen kneeling or sitting during the anthem, including Marcus Peters, who sat while raising his fist.
The strongest statement came from the teams standout linebacker, Justin Houston, who chose to kneel by himself by the teams bench, facing the crowd rather than the field.
Image Credit Top: Rey Del Rio/Getty Images; Leon Halip/Getty Images

Atlanta Falcons at Detroit Lions

Atlantas owner, Arthur Blank, who had already issued a statement denouncing the presidents remarks, joined his players on the sideline during the anthem, locking arms, as did Detroits owner, Martha Ford, and her three daughters.
Rico Lavelle, who performed the anthem, took at knee at the conclusion of the song and raised his fist.
Advertisement

Image Credit Top: Thomas J. Russo/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Darron Cummings/Associated Press

Cleveland Browns at Indianapolis Colts

The crowd in Indianapolis was booing loudly as players on both teams chose to either lock arms or kneel.
The Browns had around 20 players kneeling.
The owners of the team, Jimmy and Dee Haslam, said in a statement that We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the president or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
Our stance in support of the liberties of peaceful, personal expression afforded to our players and all Americans will remain strong, and we will continue to encourage our players to respectfully use their earned platform to inspire positive change in our nation and throughout society, it continued.
Despite the booing, the Colts had several players kneel during the anthem as well.
Image Players for the Buffalo Bills and the Denver Broncos protested before their game on Sunday.
Credit Top: Brett Carlsen/Getty Images; Adrian Kraus/Associated Press

Denver Broncos at Buffalo Bills

The Broncos, who have had players protesting since last season, had more than 30 players kneeling during the anthem (including some practice squad members) while the Bills had one of the more unusual demonstrations, with the entire team walking about 10 yards onto the field together before having several players kneel.
Image Credit Top: Bob Leverone/Associated Press; Streeter Lecka/Getty Images

New Orleans Saints at Carolina Panthers

Adrian Peterson and Mark Ingram were part of a group of around 10 members of the Saints who stayed on the bench during the anthem.
The Panthers stood for the anthem, as they have since the protests began last season.
The Panthers Julius Peppers was not on the field during the anthem  he arrived after it had ended  but the team has not issued a statement as to whether his absence was a protest of any kind.
Image Credit Photos by Brad Rempel/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Tampa Bay Buccaneers at Minnesota Vikings

While no players on the Vikings chose to kneel during the anthem, the entire team, and the teams owners, stood with their arms linked.
Tampa Bay had two players kneel during the anthem, DeSean Jackson and Mike Evans.
The Buccaneers recognize every individuals constitutional right to freedom of speech, which is crucial to the American way of life that we cherish, the team said in a statement.
We are equally committed to the principles of inclusivity and respect for differing points of view that should be afforded to all Americans.
Image Credit Top: Mike Roemer/Associated Press; Jeff Hanisch/USA Today Sports, via Reuters

Cincinnati Bengals at Green Bay Packers

Martellus Bennett, Kevin King and Lance Kendricks of the Green Bay Packers all sat during the anthem, while most of the players on that team stood with their arms linked, while most of the Bengals players chose to link arms but none knelt.
Bennetts protest came a day after he unleashed a series of texts criticizing the presidents remarks about football players.
Image Credit Top: Brad Mills/USA Today Sports, via Reuters; Alex Brandon/Associated Press

Oakland Raiders at Washington Redskins

The entire offensive line of the Oakland Raiders, the only line in the N.F.L.
made up entirely of African-American players, was joined by virtually the entire team in kneeling or sitting during the national anthem.
It was one of the strongest visual displays of the many protests on Sunday, and across the field, the Redskins stood with linked arms as some players chose to kneel.
Many fans in attendance at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
In this case as well, the content started with the president.
As Seth Meyers, the host of NBCs Late Night, told Vox recently, The White House has the best writers room in comedy.
Where football is any given Sunday, late-night comedy is every single weeknight.
And with its harder charge into anti-Trump political humor, it has sailed into what the former New York Times writer Bill Carter called absolutely uncharted territory.
I checked in with Mr. Carter not only because we are old colleagues but also because he is the nations foremost student of late-night entertainment.
He literally wrote the book on it  that is, The Late Shift, the classic yarn about the war between David Letterman and Jay Leno to get Johnny Carsons job on the Tonight show.
(He followed it up with The War For Late Night, about the Conan OBrien debacle at NBC.)
Theres no example of any kind of sustained attack like this on a politician, Mr. Carter told me last week.
Theres a horde of writers writing jokes about Donald Trump every single night.
(And, he said, he wasnt even counting the weekly shows like Saturday Night Live, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver and Full Frontal with Samantha Bee.)
This has brought about an abundance of incisive political satire.
But it has also come with new complications that threaten to kill the fun, through blowback on the pro-Trump right and the rigid expectations of an anti-Trump audience that wants Resistance TV every night.
Mr. Colbert bumped up against the latter when he hosted the Emmys last week and decided to do a bit with the former Trump press secretary Sean Spicer.
His writing team from The Late Show knew it might not be well-received in some quarters and debated the idea ahead of time, people familiar with the deliberations told me (they spoke on condition of anonymity so as not to be seen as violating the sanctity of the writing room).
Photo

By normal comedic standards, the idea seemed pretty basic: Put Mr. Spicer behind a mock White House lectern and have him make a fake boast about the size of the Emmy audience  evoking the false claim he made about Mr. Trumps inaugural crowd.
The sketch fast became heckler bait.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Is it supposed to be comical that the former White House spokesman is now tacitly admitting that he lied to the American people?
a CNN White House correspondent, Kaitlan Collins, wrote in a tweet.
Entertainment Weekly quoted Julia Louis-Dreyfus as saying, Theres nothing funny about Sean Spicer and what his actions have been and what his behavior has been about.
Period.
The gag was woefully off-kilter with Mr. Colberts brand of principled, political comedy.
Much of his criticism revolved around Mr. Spicers role in forwarding the presidents anti-press, alternative facts strategy.
Now, he was being attacked for having abetted Spicers image overhaul, as The Timess Frank Bruni put it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Spicer was a burning ember for every comedic set of hands  or lips  he touched.
James Corden, the Late Late Show host who follows Mr. Colbert, felt compelled to apologize after a picture circulated of him giving Mr. Spicer a peck on the cheek at an Emmy party.
Understandably, some people have been disappointed by this photo, Mr. Corden told his audience.
In truth, Im disappointed by it as well.
Yet while Mr. Colbert and Mr. Corden were fielding criticism last week, Jimmy Kimmel was riding a wave of Resistance support, because of the way he eviscerated the latest Republican health care bill on his show.
It became a big news story in its own right because it was such an unusual situation: Republicans pushing the plan, including the president, were facing their strongest opposition from a late-night talk show host on ABC.
Mr. Kimmel has a personal connection to the debate  his son has a congenital heart condition that, Mr. Kimmel has said, would potentially go untreated under the recently proposed new health care laws if the boy did not have a wealthy father.
The response from the right was intense.
But where that might have led to a course correction in the past, as it so often had, Mr. Kimmel pressed on for three nights in a row.
Were at the point now where Mr. Fallon has been widely criticized for being too apolitical  and was eviscerated for playfully mussing Mr. Trumps hair.
He adjusted his show accordingly, a shift for Tonight, which is, after all, the original late-night talk show.
Leno was the guy who was most likely to be down the middle with his commentary, Mr. Carter said, referring to Jay Leno, Mr. Fallons predecessor, who led the late-night ratings through most of his 22-year tenure.
He was more or less following the tradition of his own predecessor, Johnny Carson, who made plenty of fun of Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
But, as Mr. Carter put it, Carson was judicious about his criticism.
Mr. Lenos direct competitor, David Letterman, was known in his later years for skewering former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, but for most of his tenure, he was not particularly political.
Dave would have said, Im just an idiot, I dont really know anything, said Mr. Carter, who now works as a media analyst for CNN.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And now, Mr. Carter said, Colbert and Seth Meyers, they are like the voice of the resistance.
One explanation, he said, is that late-night comedy has always played off the news, and these days, all of the news is about Mr. Trump.
Then there is the content of that news, and the reactions it so often causes.
In calling Mr. Trumps response to the white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., shameful during an opening monologue in August, Mr. Fallon said it was my responsibility to stand up against intolerance and extremism as a human being.
For his part, Mr. Colbert is being true to the left-leaning political comedy he practiced, in character, on his old show, The Colbert Report, on Comedy Central, where he and Jon Stewart initially set the new tone were seeing today.
Yet through the first half of the election campaign, in his new place on CBS, he did not embrace his politics.
As his show struggled, critics and late-night insiders debated whether CBS was restraining him or he was restraining himself.
His increasing turn toward Trump jokes as the campaign wore on gave Mr. Colbert and CBS what they needed: ratings, which are, after all, network televisions answer to liquid courage.
Mr. Trump doesnt seem likely to rob Mr. Colbert and his cohorts of material any time soon.
To have the president trying to intimidate people  I wanted to send a message that I dont condone that, Thomas said, echoing the opinion of most N.F.L.
players.
Im not O.K.
with somebody trying to prevent someone from standing up for what they think is important.
Photo

But the acts of defiance received a far more mixed reception from fans, both in the stadiums and on social media, suggesting that what were promoted as acts of unity might have exacerbated a divide and dragged yet another of the countrys institutions into the turbulent cross currents of race and politics.
At Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, videos posted on social media showed some Eagles fans yelling at anti-Trump protesters holding placards.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., before the Jets played the Dolphins, many fans, a majority of them white, said they did not support the anthem protests but also did not agree with the presidents view that players should be fired because of them.
Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, said Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, who said he had been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
Yet he objected to the anthem protests, saying, I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
Mr. Trump, in a speech on Friday and a weekend-long series of tweets, had all but baited athletes and the league to respond by saying that those who do not stand for the anthem should be fired.
He added that the league was in decline for tolerating the protests and for taking steps to reduce brain damage among players.
As the sideline demonstrations unfolded on Sunday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: Great solidarity for our national anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
Photo

And before boarding Air Force One in the evening, Mr. Trump told reporters that his comments had nothing to do with race or anything else  this has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, players and team officials said they had made the gestures, including locking arms, in solidarity with players who had demonstrated during the anthem, not to support Mr. Trump.
There was a variety of protests on the sidelines Sunday.
All but one player from the Pittsburgh Steelers, one of the leagues most celebrated teams, refused to go out for the anthem.
The lone exception was Alejandro Villanueva, a veteran of the war in Afghanistan.
The Steelers, who were playing the Bears, were booed heavily by fans in Chicago when they ran onto the field after the anthem.
The Steelers, along with the Tennessee Titans and the Seattle Seahawks, who were playing each other and similarly skipped the anthem, broke a league rule requiring athletes to be present for the anthem, though a league executive said they would not be penalized.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country, Seahawks players said in a statement before the game.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
Even stars who normally shy from controversy took a stand.
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers posted a photograph of himself kneeling with three of his teammates during warm-ups before the game, and New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, a supporter of the president, liked Rodgerss photo.
Later, before the Patriots game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass., Brady locked arms with a teammate on the field and placed his hand over his heart during the anthem.
Rodgers stood during the anthem, but three of his teammates sat on the bench.
A dozen or so Patriots knelt during the anthem, prompting some fans at Gillette Stadium to boo.
Still, one of the more surprising reactions came from the Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, a friend and campaign donor of the president who has invited Mr. Trump to sit with him at home games, as well as from other owners who were considered bedrock supporters of the president.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday, Kraft said in a statement hours before the New England game, adding that he supported players right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is most impactful.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

E. Stanley Kroenke, the owner of the Los Angeles Rams, and Martha Firestone Ford, the owner of the Detroit Lions, both of whom lean to the right politically, also scolded the president.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ford said negative and disrespectful comments were contrary to the founding principles of our country, and we do not support those comments or opinions.
She and the Atlanta Falcons owner, Arthur M. Blank, who donates to many Democratic causes, linked arms with players during the anthem before the Falcons-Lions game in Detroit.
The singer Rico LaVelle went down on one knee as he finished singing the anthem.
The demonstrations intensified what was already a divisive debate that began last season when Colin Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, began kneeling during the playing of the national anthem, to highlight, he has said, police brutality and racial injustice.
He left the team after last season and has not played in the league since, inspiring questions over whether teams are punishing him, while many other players have knelt or made gestures in support of him or other social causes during the anthem.
Kaepernick has not commented, and his social media accounts were largely quiet on the president and the new round of protests.
Photo

But the fallout from Mr. Trumps remarks spilled over into other sports.
In a tweet Friday, Mr. Trump disinvited the Golden State Warriors, the N.B.A.
champions, to any traditional White House visit, after members of the team, including its biggest star, Stephen Curry, were critical of him.
But on Sunday, the N.H.L.
champion Pittsburgh Penguins said they would go to the White House, and declared such visits to be free of politics.
Nascar team owners went a step further, saying they would not tolerate drivers who protested during the anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To promote the idea of the N.F.L.
as a unifying force, the league was planning to replay a television ad called Inside These Lines on NBC on Sunday night when the Oakland Raiders played the Washington Redskins outside the nations capital.
While none of the Jets players knelt during the playing of the anthem, they locked arms on the sideline and were joined by some of the teams administrators.
On the other side of the field, four Miami Dolphins players  Maurice Smith, Kenny Stills, Thomas and Laremy Tunsil  knelt, while the teams owner, Stephen M. Ross, locked arms with two of his players.
Two years ago, Mr. Ross started a nonprofit organization to combat racism and discrimination.
Outside the stadium in East Rutherford, Julie and Vin Santomero, who brought their sons to the game, said they also did not want to see protests at a sporting event because they attended games to get away from politics.
Its a football game, Mrs. Santomero said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y.; Jeanna Pulistar, 29, of Lindenhurst, N.Y.; Roger Guevara, 29, of Yonkers; and Genesis Pineda, 27, of Yonkers, took the opposing view by supporting the N.F.L.
players right to protest during the anthem.
People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist, said Melendez, who is African-American.
The double standard is crazy.
Still, the presidents message had reached the fans, here and elsewhere, and it got some families talking and other families not talking because of disagreements.
Many noted that in this country, players were lucky to be able to express whatever view they wanted.
But drawing attention to police brutality and racial inequality by going down on one knee during the national anthem, they said, was inappropriate because it was disrespectful to the nations veterans who fought for that very freedom of expression.
Joe Barone, 27, an accountant from Rhode Island sitting under the shade of a tent with a 60-inch television, said both sides are wrong.
The players should respect the flag, he said, but Mr. Trump shouldnt have called the players what he did, using the phrase son of a bitch.
There are things wrong in this country, but there are better ways to show it, Mr. Barone said.
The players message is not coming across clearly.
Donna Murray, an office worker from Rhode Island who described herself as old enough to vote, said the players had not picked the most effective way to make their point.
When Im in Canada, Ill stand for their national anthem, she said.
Its not that she cares about Canada, per se, she said, but standing is the respectful thing to do.
The players, however, had muddied the waters by mixing up politics in the incongruous setting of football, she said.
Photo

If you want to protest, go somewhere else, she said.
I think if they did it in a different platform, more people would listen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She herself had mixed feelings about the whole brouhaha.
The players should show respect for the people who fought for this country, she said, but the president went too far in saying the players who kneel should be fired.
Many agreed that Mr. Trump had stepped over a line.
Mel Casa, 74, who owns a hair salon, and his son Robert, 52, who served in the Air Force and works with computers, had rolled out an American flag on their tailgate.
The father said he voted for Mr. Trump but regretted it because the president is a bully and has no filter when he speaks.
And this time, he said, as he puffed on a big Dominican cigar, Mr. Trump had really gone overboard.
He said it was ludicrous to expect that 70,000 people would walk out of Gillette Stadium if players went down on their knees.
Connor Bouvier, 13, an eighth grader from New Hampshire, said that players kneeling during the anthem was disrespectful.
Asked whether he sided with the president on this issue, Connor said yes but he was not as arrogant as he is.
His grandfather Philippe Bouvier, 72, a retired pharmacist who did not vote for Mr. Trump, was not happy about the presidents blue comments about the players.
Its not proper talk from a leader, Mr. Bouvier said.
The president of the United States shouldnt have to be bleeped out.
A group of three men, stealing some shade from someone elses tent while their plates of fried shrimp, fried scallops and fried Twinkies baked in the sun, were deeply divided.
Derek Nelson, 31, a martial arts instructor from New Hampshire who said he voted for Hillary Clinton, applauded the players for taking a stand for what they believe in, and said that kneeling was a respectful act, done quietly and not interfering with anyone elses rights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His friend Jim Hatch, 50, a business owner, said that the players behavior was indefensible, though he defended their right to act however they wanted.
You have the right to do it all day long and thats part of America, he said, and in other countries youd get shot.
But they agreed that the president was trying to shore up his conservative supporters.
Trump knows his base doesnt like it, Mr. Hatch said of the players kneeling.
Hes not stupid.
He knows what works.
Thats votes.
Thats 100 percent votes.
At other stadiums, most football fans wished the president had stayed out of this realm.
At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., home of the Jets, Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, said he was a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump but this is a battle he doesnt need to get into.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Julie and Vin Santomero and their sons Will and Jack of Wilton, Conn., said they had discussed the protests during the drive to the game.
These kids have no idea what the players are protesting, Ms. Santomero said as the family grilled corn on the cob.
But she said she did not like the protests.
Its a football game, she said.
Theyre here to play the game.
Maybe after they retire they can go into politics like a lot of them do.
Her husband nodded.
Maybe its not the proper forum, he said.
Not that theyre right or wrong either way.
Sports is meant to be a departure.
A group of people playing beer pong nearby had also been talking about Mr. Trumps comments on their way to the game.
All of them supported the protests.
Theyre protesting because people are dying, said Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y. People dont get mad when people are shot or killed, but theyre getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist.
The double standard is crazy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said that African-Americans in particular were paying close attention to who was protesting and who was not.
He said those who do not kneel would be seen as sellouts thinking only of securing their paychecks.
Jeanna Pulistar, 29 of Lindenhurst, N.Y., said, I understand that the national anthem is important, but at the same time, what other time is there to stand up together for something you believe in?
Colleen Channer, who was walking through the parking lot, said of Mr. Trump, Can stupid get stupider?
She said the president should not be favoring one group of people over another.
Hes supposed to be neutral and hes not.
In Charlotte, at Bank of America Stadium, Keith Watson, who was tailgating with his family, thought Mr. Trumps comments were just plain dumb.
Hes more about division than coming together, he said.
Mr. Watson, who was in the military last year when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began kneeling as a protest, said he did not have a problem with it.
As far as Im concerned, thats why Im in the military, to give him the right to express himself any way he wants to, short of yelling fire!
in a crowded theater, he said.
Kneeling as a protest is unobtrusive, nonviolent, he said.
Its a silent protest.
Silent but visual.
Photo

Jay Kemp, a former Marine who was with his family at a fan fest near the Charlotte stadium, said he personally would not take a knee during the national anthem but said he fought for the right of anyone else to do so.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I find it hard to swallow that the president would attack professional athletes for their freedom of speech, and a freedom that I spent 21 years protecting, Mr. Kemp said.
They could be exercising their freedom of speech to promote hate or promote something else.
But theyre doing it in a nonviolent fashion and theyre exercising their right.
Besides, he said, kneeling is not about disrespecting the country.
Its a protest against police brutality and racism, he said.
And it has inspired him to teach his son, who is 7, to stand up for what he believes is right.
Kevin Mac learned in a phone call outside the stadium in Charlotte that the entire Pittsburgh Steelers team had decided to wait until the national anthem was over before taking the field in Chicago.
Originally from Pittsburgh, Mr. Mac angrily told his wife, Kelly, that he would no longer support the Steelers  and she said she would give up her season tickets to Panthers games if any players knelt.
Im just blown away, she said.
If you cant respect our country with the national anthem, then you need to go.
She said it was a terrible example to set for children.
In Detroit, near Ford Field, where the Hatch family was tailgating, Morgan Hatch, 40, said his 12-year-old twins, Alex and Jackson, were following the controversy closer than he was.
I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
Jackson agreed, saying the players were simply exercising their rights.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem, but that should be O.K., he said.
Tailgating nearby was Carlos Neal, 48, who was tending to multiple grills at two tents and a pop-up camper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He said he always kneels in protest during the national anthem, has been doing it for a while and would do it today as he watched the Lions game on television in a parking lot.
I am with the players all the way, he said.
I respect every single one of them if they protest, and even if they dont, I still respect them for their rights.
As for the president, he added: Trumps has got to lay off that Instagram and Twitter crack, put his phone down and stop all this nonsense.
Somebody needs to take that phone away from him.
We got real problems going on in this world, and this is what he wants to do?
No sir.
Many fans at FedEx Field could be heard booing the players while they sat.
Michele Tafoya reported that Raiders Coach Jack Del Rio told her the Raiders players would have preferred to stay in the locker room, but because of the demands of prime-time television they would have likely incurred a delay of game penalty.
The protests were part of a massive show of solidarity in the face of harsh criticism by President Trump, who had called for protesting players to be fired.
The days slate of games started early, with Baltimore and Jacksonville facing off in London, meaning the protests occurred over a span of 11 hours.
-

Want the big sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
Trump Sounds Off Again

Every N.F.L.
game today has carried some level of demonstration by players, with some teams going as far as not appearing on the field for the national anthem.
But nearly nine hours after the games had begun, President Trump once again took to Twitter to condemn the players who choose not to stand for the anthem, and the league that allows it.
It was his 12th sports-related tweet or retweet in a 36-hour period.
Players Explain Why They Made a Statement

Miami Dolphins tight end Julius Thomas, who previously had stood during the anthem, instead knelt on Sunday with three teammates.
Asked what had changed for him, he said: To have the president trying to intimidate people  I wanted to send a message that I dont condone that.
Im not O.K.
with somebody trying to prevent someone from standing up for what they think is important.
Lots of people dont have a voice, and I wanted to tell those folks that theyre not alone.
I used my position to try to empower everybody who seeks equality.
LeSean McCoy, a running back for the Buffalo Bills, also addressed the issue following his game against the Denver Broncos.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I cant stand and support something where our leader of this country is just acting like a jerk, you know, angry and upset about N.F.L.
players protesting in a peaceful manner, McCoy said.
Drew Brees, quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, said: I disagree with what the president said and how he said it.
I think its very unbecoming of the office of President of the United States to talk like that to the great people like that.
And obviously hes disappointed a lot of people.
But as it pertains to the national anthem, I will always feel that if you are an American that the national anthem is the opportunity for us all to stand up together, to be unified and to show respect for our country.
Photo

Seahawks and Titans Stay in Locker Rooms

Neither the Seattle Seahawks nor the Tennessee Titans took the field for Meghan Linseys singing of the national anthem in Nashville.
While the Titans not participating was somewhat of a surprise, the Seahawks had announced in advance that they would not be on the field.
Their statement said:

As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing to work towards equality and justice for all.
Respectfully, The Players of the Seattle Seahawks.
The complete absence of players made for a bizarre scene where team mascots and game officials were the only things the television cameras had to focus on besides the flag and Linsey.
Unlike at some other stadiums, where fans booed at the protests, the fans in Nashville were eerily quiet during the anthem, and after its conclusion Linsey took a knee on the field.
An N.F.L.
executive said teams that did not take the field during the playing of the national anthem, including the Steelers, would not be fined.
According to league rules, all teams are required to be on the sideline during the national anthem, though they do not specify whether players must stand.
Trump Says Locking Arms Is Good, Kneeling Isnt

At 2:20 p.m. Eastern, more than five hours into the slate of games and about eight hours after tweeting that fans should boycott games, Mr. Trump again weighed in on the national anthem demonstrations, issuing his approval for the locking of arms, while still condemning the players who chose to kneel.
The tweet appeared to be Mr. Trump suggesting that the players choosing to lock arms were showing support of the anthem, rather than protesting his remarks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Odell Beckham Jr. Raises Fist After Touchdown

The protests did not all happen before the games.
When the Giants tied the score in the second half of their loss to the Philadelphia Eagles, Odell Beckham Jr. chose to celebrate by dropping the ball and standing in the end zone with his fist raised above his head in a protest that has been done by black athletes going back to the 1960s.
After the brief demonstration, Beckham ran to the sideline to celebrate the score in a more traditional fashion.
Beckham had been flagged earlier for unsportsmanlike conduct when he celebrated a touchdown by impersonating a dog urinating.
When asked about the celebration and penalty, Beckham told reporters, Im a dog, so I acted like a dog.
How Players and Teams in Other Sports Reacted

 On Saturday, a rookie catcher with the Oakland Athletics became the first player to demonstrate during the national anthem at a Major League Baseball game.
We have a racial divide thats being practiced from the highest power we have in this country, the player, Bruce Maxwell, told The San Francisco Chronicle.
On Saturday night, during an appearance at the Global Citizen Festival in New York City, the singer Stevie Wonder kneeled in prayer.
Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees, he said.
On Sunday morning, the Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins said in a statement that they would visit the White House.
Mr. Trump tweeted his approval, calling the Penguins a Great team!
(A day earlier, Mr. Trump had tweeted to disinvite the N.B.A.s Golden State Warriors to the White House because of the star point guard Stephen Currys opposition.)
On Sunday afternoon, athletes demonstrated ahead of a W.N.B.A.
finals game at Williams Arena in Minneapolis.
The Los Angeles Sparks stayed in their locker room during the national anthem, while the Minnesota Lynx stood with their arms linked together.
At a Nascar race in New Hampshire on Sunday afternoon, The Associated Press reported that no team members appeared to demonstrate while the anthem played.
The Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty said that anyone who does not stand up for the anthem ought to be out of the country.
Period.
He added that anyone at his company who protested the anthem should be fired.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Fans Divided on Player Demonstrations

The New York Times sent several reporters to N.F.L.
games to ask fans what they thought of the presidents criticisms and the players protests.
Perhaps surprising to no one, all sides of the debate still have adherents, even if dozens of prominent athletes and many N.F.L.
owners  a deeply conservative group of businessmen  seem to agree on some basic things.
Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, N.Y., has been a Jets season-ticket holder since 1978.
He was in the MetLife Stadium parking lot before the Jets played the Dolphins:

Im a Republican who voted for him, but I think this is a battle he doesnt need to get into, he said about President Trump.
Asked his opinion of the protests, Zaccaria said: I dont support it.
I understand what theyre trying to get at, I just think there are better ways of expressing yourself.
I feel like if the media didnt make a big deal of it  I remember that for years and years they didnt show the anthem  and now all of a sudden this is an issue.
I feel like if you just let these guys do their thing and we could all move on.
Bill Pennington

 Twin brothers Alex and Jackson Hatch, 12, from Loves Park, Ill., were outside Ford Field in Detroit before the Lions played the Atlanta Falcons:

I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do, Alex said.
I know about what Colin Kaepernick is doing, he started kneeling a long time ago.
Maybe the others are doing it to be with him too.
I do not think it is a bad thing for people to kneel, they are showing what their rights are, Jackson said.
It might look weird or something during the national anthem but that should be O.K.
Joanne Gerstner

Kaepernick Offers a Subtle Reminder of Why This All Started

As President Trump, the N.F.L.
and the nation waged a fierce debate about the appropriate nature of national anthem protests, the man who started that debate, Colin Kaepernick, was nowhere in sight.
Instead, Kaepernick spent part of his day retweeting messages about the protests and photos of players who warmed up for their games in #IMWITHKAP T-shirts.
But he also highlighted one that raised a point largely absent in this weekends discussion: that Kaepernicks protests were never about President Trump, but instead an effort to raise the issue of racial injustice.
Kaepernicks anthem protests began during the 2016 preseason, under a different president and largely unnoticed at first, in the wake of several high-profile incidents in which black Americans were killed during interactions with police officers.
Initially, Kaepernick protested by sitting down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color, he told NFL Media at the time.
To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way.
After his seated protests drew scrutiny, Kaepernick began kneeling instead, a change that he said allowed him to show respect while continuing to press his point.
Several N.F.L.
players joined him in solidarity, as did athletes in other sports and leagues.
Kaepernick, who has not addressed the news media since last season, now focuses his energies, and his time, on education and awareness of causes important to him.
John Branch of The Times wrote about that ongoing political awakening this month.
Not Everyone Supports Anthem Demonstrations

The reaction to the N.F.L.
anthem demonstrations was sharply divided on social media, with many fans taking the players to task for their perceived disrespect for the flag, and America.
Others disagreed with the presidents statements and backed the players.
Steve King, a Republican congressman from Iowa, echoed President Trump by urging owners to fire players who did not stand.
The conservative commentator Dinesh DSouza urged fans to boo those players.
The former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee said on Fox News, I wish that some of these players who get on one knee would get on both knees and thank God they live in the United States.
Eric H. Holder Jr., a former U.S. Attorney General, provided a history lesson:

Paul Bailey, a state senator from Tennessee, sent a warning to the Titans:

Clay Travis, a Fox Sports contributor, tweeted: Sports medias outraged over Trump NFL anthem comments.
Yet vast majority of fans agree.
Huge disconnect in sports between fans/media.
Others, without the platform of public office or celebrity status, also criticized the players who demonstrated:

Photo

Tom Brady Stands With Patriots

Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, who is friends with Mr. Trump and whose politics have been a cause of much speculation, joined his teammates in locking arms during the anthem before their game against the Houston Texans in Foxborough, Mass.
Brady, who has yet to address Trumps recent criticisms, also put his hand over his heart.
While Brady and teammate Phillip Dorsett locked arms, several other Patriots took a knee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Bill Belichick, the Patriots coach, stood next to Brady during the anthem with his arms crossed.
Earlier in the day, the Patriots owner Robert K. Kraft issued a statement condemning Trumps attack on the league, saying he was deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
National Anthem Singer Takes a Knee

In a first for anthem demonstrations in the N.F.L., Rico Lavelle, who sang the anthem in Detroit for the Lions-Falcons game, sank to one knee and raised a fist at the conclusion.
Steelers Dont Participate in Anthem

The Steelers did not emerge from the locker room in Chicago during the national anthem before their game against the Bears.
Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin said the team would be unified in their actions, and the empty Pittsburgh bench was a stark image of the teams unity.
Were not going to play politics, Coach Mike Tomlin told CBS before the game.
Were football players, were football coaches.
Were not participating in the anthem today.
Not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
People shouldnt have to choose.
If a guy wants to go about his normal business and participate in the anthem, he shouldnt have to be forced to choose sides.
If a guy feels the need to do something, he shouldnt be separated from his teammate who chooses not to.
So were not participating today.
Tomlin came out alone for the anthem and stood at midfield with his hands behind his back.
Steelers offensive lineman Alejandro Villanueva, a captain in the U.S. Army, stood by the tunnel entrance with his hand over his heart during the ceremony.
Rex Ryan Regrets Supporting Trump

Rex Ryan, the former Jets and Bills coach who once introduced then-presidential candidate Donald Trump at a rally in Buffalo, expressed his regret on the morning show Sunday N.F.L.
Countdown.
Everyones always been united.
Yeah, the views are different but let me tell you: Im pissed off, said Ryan, who now works as an ESPN commentator.
Ill be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
When he asked me to introduce him at a rally in Buffalo, I did that.
But Im reading these comments and its appalling to me and Im sure its appalling to almost any citizen in our country.
It should be.
Photo

Jaguars and Ravens Kneel and Lock Arms During Anthem

In a pointed rebuke of President Trumps call for N.F.L.
owners to fire players who protest during the national anthem, Shahid Khan, the only Muslim owner in the league, locked arms with his Jacksonville Jaguars players on Sunday before their game in London.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

During the national anthem, Khan locked arms with tight end Marcedes Lewis and linebacker Telvin Smith, both of whom are black, on the sideline to show unity with his players, who are trying to highlight social injustice and police brutality against African-Americans.
While the N.F.L.
and several owners issued statements on Saturday saying they supported the players protests and were unhappy with the presidents comments, Khan was the first owner to stand with his players.
Khan is a Republican who contributed money to the presidents inauguration, and he has said he supports the presidents economic policies.
But he is also an immigrant and a Muslim, two groups that the president has routinely attacked.
In February, Khan, who is Pakistani-American, said he opposed the presidents attempt to bar people from some predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.
Khans actions will put the spotlight on other team owners.
Owners of the Bills, Lions, Dolphins, Falcons, Rams and Giants were among those who issued statements opposing the presidents comments.
But many prominent owners, including Jerry Jones of the Cowboys and Woody Johnson of the Jets, were silent.
Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Condemns Trumps Criticism

President Trump doubled down on his criticism of N.F.L.
players who take a knee during the national anthem, saying fans should boycott games unless the players are fired or suspended.
Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots and a longtime friend of the presidents, was among the first to reply, saying in a statement:

I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday.
I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics.
N.F.L.
Owners Add Their Voices to the Chorus

N.F.L.
owners, most of them conservative and many of them large donors to President Trump, joined with Kraft and backed their players rights to protest during the national anthem and condemned Trumps criticism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Colts owner Jim Irsay said, I am troubled by the presidents recent comments about our league and our players.
The Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie said, I support them as they take their courage, character and commitment into our communities to make them better or to call attention to injustice.
The Chargers owner Dean Spanos said, The N.F.L.
and its players, more than anything, have been a force for good.
From Jimmy Haslam, owner of the Cleveland Browns:

We must not let misguided, uninformed and divisive comments from the President or anyone else deter us from our efforts to unify.
The Bears chairman George H. McCaskey said in a statement that what makes this the greatest country in the world are the liberties it was founded upon and the freedom to express oneself in a respectful and peaceful manner.
He said the franchise was unified by this divisive political situation.
On the Field

 It looked as if the New England Patriots (2-1) were going to be beaten at home by a rookie quarterback, but Tom Brady led a furious fourth-quarter drive that went 75 yards in eight plays, scoring on a 25-yard touchdown pass to Brandin Cooks.
After a 2-point conversion, the Patriots came away with a 36-33 victory, while Deshaun Watson and the Houston Texans (1-2) were sent home empty-handed despite leading with 23 seconds remaining.
Aaron Rodgers got the Green Bay Packers (2-1) into overtime with a late touchdown throw, and after his defense came through with a big stop, he found Geronimo Allison for a 72-yard catch-and-run that set up Mason Crosbys game-winning 27-yard field goal.
The winless Cincinnati Bengals, who led 21-7 at halftime, were left with a 30-27 loss.
Russell Wilson threw for 373 yards and four touchdowns, but a rare bad day for the defense of the Seattle Seahawks (1-2) resulted in a 33-27 loss to the Tennessee Titans (2-1).
The usually formidable Seattle defense allowed 195 yards on the ground, which helped the Titans build a 30-14 lead that gave them enough cushion to survive a late surge by the Seahawks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Kareem Hunt continued to make the N.F.L.
look easy.
The rookie running back of the Kansas City Chiefs (3-0) rushed for 172 yards and one touchdown in a 24-10 victory over the Los Angeles Chargers (0-3).
Hunt now has 538 yards from scrimmage in the first three games of his career.
The only player with more yards in his first three games was Billy Sims, who had 562 yards with the 1980 Detroit Lions.
The Denver Broncos (2-1) turned the ball over on their final four possessions in a 26-16 loss to the Buffalo Bills.
Buffalo survived a subpar effort from the teams best player, LeSean McCoy, who managed just 21 yards on 14 carries.
Tyrod Taylor provided plenty of offense, completing 20 of 26 passes for 213 yards and two touchdowns.
Broncos quarterback Trevor Siemian was brutal a week after leading his team to an upset victory over Dallas.
He threw two interceptions and had a passer rating of 58.2.
Jordan Howard ran in a 19-yard touchdown in overtime that gave the Chicago Bears (1-2) a shocking 23-17 upset of the Pittsburgh Steelers (2-1).
Given a chance to win the game after being tied 17-17 at the end of regulation, the Bears needed just four running plays to score, with Howard and Tarik Cohen leading them to victory.
Howard finished with 23 carries for 138 yards and two touchdowns.
Matthew Stafford of the Detroit Lions (2-1) appeared to have thrown a game-winning touchdown pass to Golden Tate with 12 seconds remaining, but after a review it was determined that Tates knee had hit the ground before he crossed the goal line.
The ruling carried with it a mandatory 10-second running of the clock, which could have been halted with a timeout if the Lions had any remaining.
With that call, the Atlanta Falcons (3-0) escaped Detroit with a 30-26 victory.
Case Keenum and Stefon Diggs looked like stars as the Minnesota Vikings (2-1) hardly seemed to miss the injured Sam Bradford in a 34-17 victory over the Tampa Bay Buccaneers (1-1).
Keenum threw three touchdown passes, Diggs had eight receptions for 173 yards and two touchdowns, and Dalvin Cook ran for 97 yards in a well-balanced offensive effort.
Blake Bortles, a name synonymous with quarterback mediocrity, looked like Peyton Manning, throwing for four touchdowns as the Jacksonville Jaguars (2-1) romped past the Baltimore Ravens (2-1) in London, 44-7.
Jay Cutler and Matt Haack (Miamis punter) each threw interceptions, Jay Ajayi was completely unable to make a dent in the running game, and the Miami Dolphins lost to the Jets, 20-6.
The Jets (1-2) outplayed the Dolphins (1-1) in every facet of the game.
Cam Newton threw three interceptions, Drew Brees threw three touchdown passes, and the New Orleans Saints (1-2) upset the Carolina Panthers (2-1), 34-13.
Carolinas defense had not allowed a touchdown coming into the game, but the Saints managed four, while the much-maligned New Orleans defense played one of the teams best games in recent memory.
In a battle of previously winless teams, the Indianapolis Colts (1-2) beat the Cleveland Browns (0-3) thanks to a great effort by Jacoby Brissett, the young quarterback brought over from New England to bridge the gap until Andrew Luck can recover from shoulder surgery.
It was the 15th consecutive road defeat for Cleveland.
Brissett was a star, completing 17 of 24 passes for 259 yards and one touchdown while carrying the ball five times for 14 yards and two scores.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 In Sunday night action, the Redskins (2-1) stymied the Raiders (2-1), 27-10.
Washington outgained Oakland, 472 yards to 128, and held Marshawn Lynch to just 18 yards rushing.
This is a barely recognizable president.
It also is a barely recognizable generation of pro athletes.
Thank God for the latter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Just as the president lays his hand on the third rail of race, the athletes are responding.
The N.B.A.
point guard Chris Paul:

To which LeBron James added his own message:

And Bishop Sankey, a Vikings running back:

Other athletes and the presidents of the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
player unions have followed suit.
But in the surest and most striking sign of tectonic movements, N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell, as careful and conservative a leader as youll find in pro sports, felt compelled to call out the president on Saturday.
(Trump, in an Emperor Nero complaining about the desultory quality of the gladiators moment, also lamented in Alabama that the N.F.L.
had become insufficiently violent.)
Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities, Goodell said in a statement.
Photo

Its not clear how this plays with Goodells masters in N.F.L.
ownership.
They donated many millions to Trumps presidential campaign; the New England Patriots owner, Robert K. Kraft, showered $1 million on the inaugural and has been a vocal ally; and the Patriots coach, Bill Belichick, wrote a letter endorsing him last fall.
To summarize this exquisite collision of sports, politics and business: The 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick knelt during the national anthem last season, stirring a national debate about patriotism and the treatment of blacks by the police.
For that, the N.F.L.
owners appear to have blackballed him from the league this year.
For that, more players have taken up Kaepernicks cause.
And for that, President Trump disparaged the league and challenged the owners to fire players for exercising their right to free speech  which they have effectively done to Kaepernick already.
And now Kaepernicks once lonely protest suddenly has many more supporters.
Let me pause here.
For more than a decade, athletes have been chipping at the shells that so many owners, college boosters and media executives had wished upon them.
College athletes have tried to organize unions and challenged the N.C.A.A.
in court.
N.F.L.
players have revitalized their once broken-down union; N.B.A.
stars have spoken out on all manner of issues.
They have been active citizens, and that is stirring.
This cuts both ways.
If an athlete were to engage in protests against, say, abortion or gay rights, that would be no less in keeping with our nations finest free speech traditions.
Its striking how completely the president has stood this principle on its head.
He taunted N.F.L.
owners, urging them to fire players who engage in anthem protests.
Photo

Theyll be the most popular person in this country, Trump said, because thats a total disrespect of our heritage, thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The presidents invocation of heritage has become his favorite dog whistle; it also deeply misconstrues our traditions.
Ill recruit my departed father into this scrum.
Like many young men of his generation, he volunteered to fight in World War II, and he flew missions on a B-17 bomber.
Years later, when Vietnam and civil rights and labor struggles bubbled, and protesters sat out anthems and even burned flags, his view was unwavering: He had fought for an America in which citizens could speak and dissent freely and act morally.
Whats notable is how measured the athletes have tried to remain, until poked and prodded.
James appeared in a video for Michael Bloombergs global forum.
I hope and I pray that all of you know how much all of us need you now, he told the assembled corporate and societal leaders.
Curry has not been as explicitly political as James in recent years, but he did not sidestep the moment.
President Trump said he was barring Curry from the White House, but Curry had already made a case for not going.
By acting and not going, hopefully that will inspire some change, he said, when it comes to what we tolerate in this country and what is accepted and what we turn a blind eye to.
The president is an expert provocateur, and one does well not to underrate him.
But notice how the athletes eyes are so wide open.
Photo

HUNTSVILLE, Ala.  President Trump said on Friday night that N.F.L.
owners should fire players who kneel during the national anthem, and he encouraged spectators to walk out of stadiums in protest.
In an extended riff during a speech in Alabama, Trump also bemoaned what he sees as less violence in football games.
Theyre ruining the game, he complained.
Several athletes, including a handful of N.F.L.
players, have refused to stand during The Star-Spangled Banner to protest of the treatment of minorities by the police.
Quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who started the trend last year when he played for the San Francisco 49ers, has not been signed by a team for this season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump says those players are disrespecting the flag and deserve to lose their jobs.
Thats a total disrespect of our heritage.
Thats a total disrespect of everything that we stand for, he said, encouraging owners to act.
Mr. Hernandez stood trial for first-degree murder in Massachusetts, where state law requires the government to prove all elements of a crime, including criminal responsibility, beyond a reasonable doubt.
The prosecution was able to provide the details of Mr. Lloyds murder with a tight timeline that placed Mr. Hernandez at the scene of the murder, though his lawyer maintained that his client was no more than a witness to the crime.
The government also provided a theory to establish Mr. Hernandezs motive to kill Mr. Lloyd  anger over gossip  and his ample opportunity to premeditate and deliberate.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But under the Massachusetts formulation of the insanity defense, if he were tried today, Mr. Hernandez might successfully assert that, when he killed Mr. Lloyd, he suffered a mental defect that rendered him substantially unable to conform his conduct to the requirements of the law, utterly unable to make himself behave as the law requires.
Could the evidence of C.T.E.
now create a reasonable doubt about his criminal responsibility?
Almost certainly.
Football players in the United States are disproportionately charged with crimes of violence as compared with other professional athletes.
One explanation might suggest that participating in a sport that demands aggression and violence selects the most aggressive and violent men for its ranks.
An alternative but equally simple explanation might be that aggressive and violent men are naturally drawn to compete in an aggressive and violent sport.
And, of course, when large, strong men who have been taught to be aggressive find themselves in a conflict, they are more than capable of responding with brutal force.
After all, thats what theyre paid to do on the football field.
But C.T.E.
deprives such players of the ability to handle disputes rationally.
Indeed, being afflicted with C.T.E.
may well equate to insanity.
Thats enough to excuse  at least legally  the potentially criminal, violent actions of former N.F.L.
players in many states.
The Boston University study was published too late to help Aaron Hernandez.
He had died  probably because his damaged brain could not reason well enough to prevent him from hanging himself  several weeks earlier.
But given what we now know about the prevalence of C.T.E.
in high-level athletes, especially football players, the field is open for lawyers to begin to show juries just why their clients are unable to conform their conduct and control their emotional impulses.
There are many avenues for intervention on behalf of the men who have spent years treating their heads like battering rams for high salaries.
For those men who commit violent crimes, the legal community might start by seeing them as mentally incapacitated individuals with significantly impaired impulse control.
Aaron Hernandez should be sitting in a therapeutic hospital receiving care for a profound brain injury.
Instead, his ashes sit with his family.
Suicide appears to be another result of C.T.E.
Because of the post-mortem C.T.E.
diagnosis, we now know there was substantial evidence that Mr. Hernandez should not have been convicted of first-degree murder.
Given the conclusive diagnosis of Stage 3 C.T.E., it is likely that a lifetime of playing football  not Mr. Hernandezs will  was to blame.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Former players would also have to prove that the head hits they received in the N.F.L.
directly led to their troubles off the field, which is a high bar, especially for those, like Hernandez, who also played football in college and in childhood.
The league might also argue that Hernandez knew there was a risk he could be injured playing in the N.F.L., particularly because he had played the game for more than a decade before he was drafted.
Even if the league has a high probability of convincing a judge of all these arguments, the Hernandez familys lawyer, Jose Baez, might be banking on the N.F.L.
to settle the case to avoid bad publicity.
The league, though, is known to stand its ground because it wants to stop other players from suing as well.
Theres always a shot in the dark to bring the league to the table, said Jodi Balsam, a former lawyer at the N.F.L.
who teaches at Brooklyn Law School.
These cases come up all the time, and there will be more of them if they settle this without a fight.
Indeed, in a conference call with reporters on Friday, Joe Lockhart, a spokesman for the league, said that the N.F.L.
would vigorously fight the suit and that the Hernandez family would face significant legal issues.
Any attempt here to paint Aaron Hernandez as a victim, we believe, is misguided, he added.
Lockhart also cast doubt on those who are trying to connect football to C.T.E., or chronic traumatic encephalopathy, as well as C.T.E.
to violence and suicide.
The science, he said, is far from settled.
While researchers have found links between C.T.E.
and symptoms like rage, depression and irritability, they cannot definitively say that the disease predicts the behavior.
Also complicating the research is that C.T.E.
can only be diagnosed posthumously, so scientists rely on a limited number of brains donated for research.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nobody can say football and the head hits created Aaron Hernandez and his behavior, said Brad Sohn, a lawyer who has sued the N.F.L.
on behalf of former players.
But the pathology should scare anyone with a rational bone in his body.
He had a raisin-like brain of a 70-year-old even though he was 27.
Still, despite the legal hurdles facing Hernandezs family, they might still receive money from the N.F.L.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Lockhart said the league had a range of benefits available to the families of deceased players, including survivors benefits and annuities.
He also pointed to the class-action settlement that the league reached with retired players in which players who died and were found to have C.T.E.
are eligible for up to $4 million.
That benefit, though, is available only to players who had retired and died before the settlement was approved in federal court in 2015.
So in effect, the settlement would be a Trojan horse.
If the Hernandez family joins the settlement, arguing that he was no longer playing as of 2013 when he was imprisoned, they give up their right to sue the league, Sohn said, without any guarantee of getting money from the settlement.
Balsam, the former N.F.L.
lawyer, suggested that Baez, through the suit, is hoping for the remainder of Hernandezs $40 million contract extension he signed in 2012.
After Hernandez was arrested and charged with murder in June 2013, the Patriots released him and refused to pay him a $3 million bonus he was owed.
The Patriots withheld the money because Hernandezs conduct was detrimental to the team.
But Hernandez, through a quirk in Massachusetts law, has had his murder conviction overturned because he died before his appeal of the case could be heard.
So, in theory, Baez could argue that because Hernandez technically is no longer guilty of murder, the Patriots should repay his family the money he did not receive.
That argument could play out in court over weeks and months, causing the team and the league significant embarrassment.
But the league does not seem to mind sticking it out, even in high-profile cases.
It has declined to settle a wrongful-death suit by another former Patriot, the Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau, who also killed himself and was found to have C.T.E.
The N.F.L.
is making clear on every level that they want to take the General Patton approach as long as possible and make it as expensive and challenging for anyone who tries to fight them in court, Sohn said.
So its a question of, whos willing to fight these cases and stand up to the bullies.
Photo

Expectations were rock bottom for a Thursday night game between the Rams and the 49ers.
But the game turned out to be an entertaining shootout, and maybe a breakout performance by Jared Goff.
Goff was the No.
1 overall pick in last years draft by the Rams.
He started seven games, losing them all, and averaged only 156 yards a game, 39th among quarterbacks.
In contrast, the No.
2 pick in the draft, Carson Wentz, was a respectable 7-9 and averaged 23 for the Eagles.
Wentz is still playing well, but now so is Goff.
He and the Rams are off to a 2-1 start, he is averaging 272 yards a game, and his adjusted-yards-per-attempt figure is a dazzling 10.77, trailing only Alex Smith among quarterbacks with two or more starts.
On Thursday he outdueled, er, Brian Hoyer, throwing for 292 yards and three touchdowns without an interception in a 41-39 win.
His passing line was an eye-opening 22-for-28.
He was helped by some fine catches by Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins, who each had 100-yard games.
Goff is 20-for-27 without an interception on third downs, according to Sportradar.
He has also shown the ability to go deep, completing eight passes in which the ball traveled 20 yards or further.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before we hand the Rams the Lombardi Trophy, lets remember that their wins have come against the woeful Niners and the Colts without Andrew Luck; neither of those teams has a win of their own.
Their loss was against the Redskins, who do not appear exceptional.
Next weeks game at Dallas will be a sterner test.
And the Rams nearly blew a 14-point lead on Thursday night, winning only after a failed 2-point conversion by the 49ers that would have tied the score.
The Rams, now coached by Sean McVay after five years of Jeff Fisher, were 100-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season.
But they are suddenly looking like a real offensive team, and they lead the N.F.C.
With Goff proving himself more adept this year, at least against the teams hes faced so far, there is hope in Los Angeles.
The league had already faced public relations problems after other high-profile players were found to have C.T.E., including Junior Seau, Ken Stabler and Frank Gifford.
Mr. Seau  along with Dave Duerson, Andre Waters and Ray Easterling, among others  killed himself.
For years, Mr. Hernandez was held up as a particularly egregious example of N.F.L.
players running amok off the field.
Just 10 months after he signed a $40 million contract with the Patriots in 2013, with the promise of becoming a superstar, the body of a friend who had been shot multiple times was discovered.
Mr. Hernandez was convicted of the friends murder, and later accused in two other killings from 2012.
Just days after an acquittal in that case, he hanged himself with a bedsheet in his prison cell.
The researchers did not make a direct link between Mr. Hernandezs violence and his disease.
But C.T.E.
is often marked by problems with controlling aggression and impulses, and some degree of dementia, as well as mood swings, lapses in judgment and a disorganized manner.
Mr. Hernandezs estate filed a federal lawsuit on Thursday against the N.F.L.
and the Patriots seeking damages to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The suit alleges that the league and the team knew that repeated head hits could lead to brain disease, yet did not do enough to protect Mr. Hernandez from those hits.
The lawyer, Jose Baez, said the family was also contemplating suing the N.C.A.A.
and the University of Florida, where Mr. Hernandez played before playing for the Patriots.
The N.F.L.
did not comment on the medical finding, and it declined to comment on the suit.
The Patriots declined to comment.
Soon after his arrest in 2013, the team distanced itself from him, buying back more than 1,200 Hernandez jerseys from fans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The trauma to Mr. Hernandezs brain raises fresh questions about the dangers of playing tackle football.
This week, other researchers at Boston University published research that found that adults who began playing tackle football before they were 12 years old developed more cognitive and behavioral problems later in life than those players who started tackle football after they reached that age.
Photo

Mr. Hernandez played football as a teenager, and in 2013 was given the Inspiration to Youth Award by Pop Warner, the best-known youth football organization in the country.
The fact that Mr. Hernandez also led a troubled life off the field will complicate the N.F.L.s efforts to calm jitters about the sport because it will probably make some people wonder whether football had a role in his violence away from the game.
Mr. Baez said that in hindsight, Mr. Hernandezs family had witnessed him act in ways that were consistent with a person found to have C.T.E., but you dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The slides of Mr. Hernandezs brain samples were unambiguous and graphic.
Dr. Ann McKee, chief of neuropathology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and director of the CTE Center at Boston University, examined his brain and said in a statement that Mr. Hernandez had early brain atrophy and large perforations in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
The slides also showed what she called classic features of C.T.E.
in the brain, including deposits of tau protein in the front lobes of the brain in nerve cells around small blood vessels.
The discovery of C.T.E.
adds another turn in Mr. Hernandezs meteoric rise and fall.
After a standout career at Florida, he was signed by the Patriots in 2010.
Just years before, he had been working menial jobs in Bristol, Conn., his hardscrabble hometown, where he drove a $300 used car he bought with money borrowed from friends.
At Florida, he helped the Gators win the national title in the 2008 season.
But he fell to the fourth round of the N.F.L.
draft because of off-field issues including involvement in a bar fight.
Less than a year after he signed the contract with the Patriots that might have provided a stable future, his friend was found murdered.
His conviction in the case became a stark example of N.F.L.
players who exhibit violence off the field.
Even his demise was filled with turmoil.
After Mr. Hernandez died, Mr. Baez called a news conference in front of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner and accused the state of illegally withholding Mr. Hernandezs brain.
Mr. Hernandezs body had been discovered the day before, tied with a bedsheet to the window of his prison cell in Shirley, Mass.
His death was later ruled a suicide.
Instead, Lynch has seemed rejuvenated by the year off, and has paid immediate dividends for the Raiders, adding a hard-nosed edge to the offense that is not only showing up in attitude, but also in production.
At 31, he is hardly being asked to do everything himself  he has 30 of the teams 56 carries  but he has contributed to strong gains for Oakland in the percentage of rushing yards they pick up after contact, which makes teams work hard to stop him.
He may not have had a carry for more than 14 yards yet, but he has been knocked for a loss only twice, and the tough yards he has been able to fight for have opened things up for Derek Carr and the passing game.
Carr has taken advantage with a passer rating of 126.5 thus far, which is nearly 30 points better than his career high for a season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This week the Raiders will be on the road against a Redskins (1-1) team that has done fairly well against the run, but has shown some vulnerability in the passing game.
If Lynch can hammer away at the Redskins front-seven, and let Carr exploit matchup advantages against the Washington secondary, the Raiders could have the teams first 3-0 start since 2002.
Pick: Raiders

Falcons at Lions, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Falcons by 3

Even though the Falcons are the defending N.F.C.
champions, this was not seen by many as a marquee matchup when the schedules came out.
But considering how well Atlanta (2-0) played last week against Green Bay, and how good Detroit (2-0) has looked in both games so far, this could be the most evenly matched game this week in terms of talent.
It is the only meeting of the week between unbeaten teams.
Matt Ryan of the Falcons and Matthew Stafford of the Lions will get the bulk of the publicity, but this game is likely to come down to which defense can limit the opposing offense, which makes the absence of Vic Beasley, Atlantas top pass-rusher, perhaps the most important injury note of the week.
Pick: Lions

Texans at Patriots, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Patriots by 13.5

Coach Bill Belichick has always seemed to relish picking on young quarterbacks, and with Houston (1-1) sending out Deshaun Watson for a start against the Patriots (1-1) in Foxborough, here are some numbers worth paying attention to: 5-15 (the record of rookie quarterbacks against Belichick-led Patriots teams); 0-8 (the record of those quarterbacks when playing in Foxborough); 0-5 (the record of the Texans at Foxborough regardless of who is playing quarterback).
New Englands wide receiver depth chart has only one fully healthy player, and Rob Gronkowski, who looked superhero-like last week, had yet to practice as of Wednesday, so a blowout score might be hard to manage.
Expecting Watson to pull off a victory is likely to be too much to ask, but the point spread is outlandish.
Pick: Texans

Second-Tier Games

Photo

Seahawks at Titans, 4:05 p.m. on Fox

Line: Titans by 2.5

The Seahawks (1-1) have been horrid offensively, and a lot of the blame has been placed on the teams offensive line.
Pro Football Focus backs that blame up by rating three of the teams five starters as poor, with Rees Odhiambo, the teams starting left tackle, picking up the rear with a player rating of 25.9 that ranks 72nd among tackles.
The interesting thing, though, is that according to Sportradar, Russell Wilson has had an average of 2.57 seconds in the pocket before he releases the ball or the pocket collapses, which is better than last seasons mark of 2.29 seconds, and is the fifth most time of any quarterback.
He has been hit an average of 6.5 times a game, which is tied for the 12th most, and has been sacked six times, which is tied for 9th.
Wilson undoubtedly could use better protection, but placing all of the blame on the guys up front may be misguided.
In the meantime, Seattles defense is mostly making up for the offensive inadequacy, and should be able to handle Tennessee (1-1), especially if DeMarco Murray is unable to play.
Pick: Seahawks

Giants at Eagles, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Eagles by 6

Coach Ben McAdoo of the Giants (0-2) did not hold back during a conference call this week.
Yeah, we cant keep doing the same thing over and over again, McAdoo said.
Thats insanity.
Its not working.
So we are going to look to make some changes this week, like we did last week.
Maybe it will be a little more drastic this week, to use your word.
It is hardly sunshine and puppy dogs in Philadelphia, as the Eagles (1-1) are struggling to find any sort of offensive balance, and have some key injuries on defense, but playing at home against a team in disarray can do a lot to make a team look like it has everything together.
Pick: Eagles

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Buccaneers at Vikings, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: N/A

No one is sure what to make of this game since the status of Minnesotas starting quarterback, Sam Bradford, has yet to be determined.
The Vikings (1-1) looked terrific in Week 1, with Bradford earning N.F.C.
offensive player of the week honors for his performance against New Orleans, but a knee injury kept him out of Week 2 and the result was a 26-9 loss to Pittsburgh.
If Bradford, who practiced in a limited capacity on Wednesday, is able to play, Minnesota would seemingly be at an advantage, but without him the Vikings will struggle to score, even though his backup, Case Keenum, has a 2-0 record against Tampa Bay (1-0) over the last two seasons.
Pick: Vikings

Broncos at Bills, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Broncos by 3

Denver (2-0) barely escaped with a victory in Week 1, but then absolutely dominated one of the N.F.L.s best teams in Week 2, so figuring out exactly where they fit leaguewide can be difficult.
Trevor Siemian may not be able to reel off four passing touchdowns every week, but if the teams run defense can play as well as it did while humiliating Ezekiel Elliott, then the Broncos will be no fun for opponents.
Buffalo (1-1) will do its best to get something going with LeSean McCoy, but the Bills will eventually need to throw the ball, and its hard to believe that Tyrod Taylor can find openings with Aqib Talib and Chris Harris Jr. roaming the field.
Pick: Broncos

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steelers at Bears, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Steelers by 7.5

Pittsburgh (2-0) has not exactly been setting the world on fire offensively, but it has done enough to win, and provided the team does not fall apart against the lowly Bears, they should have their first 3-0 start to the season since 2010.
It would be easy to be disappointed in the Steelers efforts considering the presence of several of the leagues biggest stars.
But Chicago (0-2) could put on a clinic in disappointment: Mike Glennon has proved his critics correct by not looking even close to being worth his huge salary, and Jordan Howard thus far is struggling to repeat his success from a year ago.
Pick: Steelers

Bengals at Packers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Packers by 9

Even if the Packers (1-1) are still figuring things out defensively, a win at home over the struggling Bengals (0-2) seems like it would be easy enough.
The complicating factor is health.
Green Bay had its roster fall apart last week, with seven starters unable to play by the end of the loss to Atlanta.
If Mike Daniels, the teams versatile defensive lineman, is unable to go because of a hip injury, then this game is far more evenly matched.
It could come down to whether a patchwork offensive line can give Aaron Rodgers some time to work.
Pick: Packers

Chiefs at Chargers, 4:25 p.m. on CBS

Line: Chiefs by 3

The Chargers (0-2) have kept things close over the first two weeks of the season, but ended both games with a failed field goal attempt by Younghoe Koo and a loss.
If this game comes down to a last-second field goal attempt, it would be a shock, as the Chiefs (2-0), even when playing on the road, appear to have strong advantages on both sides of the ball.
Pick: Chiefs

Saints at Panthers, 1 p.m. on Fox

Line: Panthers by 6

New Orleans (0-2) has been absolutely cursed in September over the last few seasons, with a record of 1-11 in the month since 2014.
But this year they have certainly earned the losses, giving up 470 yards to Minnesota in Week 1 and 555 to New England in Week 2.
They might not be run quite as ragged this week by a Carolina (2-0) offense has been a bit rusty to start the season (and wont be helped by the absence of Greg Olsen).
But the Panthers do not need to run up the score given how well their defense has been playing.
Pick: Panthers

Bottom-Tier Games

Dolphins at Jets, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Dolphins by 6

The Jay Cutler experiment in Miami got off to a good start in a game in which he did not commit a turnover, got the entire offense involved, and helped lead the Dolphins (1-0) on a game-winning drive.
The potential for turnovers (plural) is always there, and having Lawrence Timmons suspended indefinitely for going missing from the team weakens the defense, but the Dolphins have advantages on both sides of the ball against the Jets (0-2).
Pick: Dolphins

Ravens at Jaguars, 9:30 a.m. on CBS

Line: Ravens by 4

The N.F.L.
has been playing games in London for 10 years now, and no team has played there more than the Jaguars.
Jacksonville (1-1) is still working its way through an agreement that has the team playing one home game a year there until at least 2020, and while their 2-2 record in London since 2013 may not seem impressive, it is certainly better than their 14-48 record outside of the London in the same time span.
Baltimore (2-0) has had a fairly smooth start to the season, and has the look of a playoff team.
The adjustment to international travel in the teams first visit abroad is the only thing putting this games result in doubt.
Pick: Ravens

Rams at 49ers, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday) on NFL Network

Line: Rams by 2.5

The N.F.C.
West is probably the leagues worst division in terms of overall talent, but at least when teams from the division are playing each other things are more evenly matched.
Both Los Angeles (1-1) and San Francisco (0-2) have shown year-to-year improvement, but with Eric Reid and Reuben Foster out, it would be too much to ask for the 49ers defense to do enough heavy lifting to win.
Pick: Rams

Browns at Colts, 1 p.m. on CBS

Line: Browns by 1

Dear Andrew Luck,

We are underdogs, at home, against a team known mostly for losing in embarrassing fashion.
We might be able to pull this one off, but it would be helpful if you could come back soon.
Sincerely, Colts fans

Pick: Colts

Mondays Matchup

Cowboys at Cardinals, 8:30 on ESPN

Line: Cowboys by 3

Dallas (1-1) is probably trying to pretend last week never happened.
Dak Prescott committed turnovers, Ezekiel Elliott could not find any room to run, and the Cowboys were simply humiliated by the Broncos.
The problems were rampant on both sides of the ball, but a chance to regroup against Arizona (1-1), a team that could barely beat the lowly Colts, could help shake the loss off and get Dallas back to a position of strength.
Pick: Cowboys
Its still too early to know if Hunt is the next Jamaal Charles, circa 2012, but we know enough to feel good about starting him in Week 3 of 2017.
Quarterback

Matt Ryan (ATL at Lions)  While he has only two touchdown passes through two games, he has been in complete control of the Falcons offense and hasnt really needed to do a whole lot in leading his team to two victories.
But in this matchup, he may need to air it out to keep up with Matthew Stafford and the Lions in what the Vegas oddsmakers are predicting to be the second highest scoring game of Week 3.
Im also not sold on the Lions secondary having improved vastly over the unit that allowed the fifth most fantasy points per game to quarterbacks in 2016.
Matthew Stafford (DET vs.
Falcons)  The other side of this potential high-scoring affair is Detroit and Stafford, who wasnt great against the Giants tough secondary, but was against the Cardinals in Week 1.
The Falcons, who gave up the second most F.P.P.G.
to the position in 2016 and helped Aaron Rodgers get back on track in Week 2, should do their part in making this game a true shootout.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Also consider: Cam Newton (CAR vs. Saints); Jay Cutler (MIA at Jets).
Running Back

Isaiah Crowell (CLE at Colts)  It has been a rough start for Crowell, who has 70 yards on 27 carries through the first two games of the season.
But it hasnt really been his fault, as the Browns have fallen behind early in both games, forcing them to shift away from the run.
Chances are that the Colts, who have a combined 21 points over the first two weeks, will be seeing a lot more of Crowell than the Steelers and the Ravens did.
Indianapoliss run defense is nothing to write home about, either, having allowed the sixth most F.P.P.G.
(20.6) to the position in 2016.
It hasnt improved that much in 2017, helping the Rams Todd Gurley to 15.6 fantasy points in Week 1.
C. J. Anderson (DEN at Bills)  No running back had a better fantasy performance than Anderson in Week 1 (118 rushing yards and two total touchdowns), and he did it in what was thought to be one of the tougher matchups for a fantasy back in Dallas.
Next up are the Bills, who yielded the third most F.P.P.G.
to running backs (21.7) last season.
While they have done better this season, they have not faced the type of tough challenge that the Broncos run game poses.
Also consider: Marshawn Lynch (OAK at Redskins).
Wide Receiver

Kelvin Benjamin (CAR vs. Saints)  After a disappointing Week 1, Benjamin last week looked more like the top receiver he showed he could be during the preseason, hauling in six of his eight targets for 77 yards.
Still, he has yet to return much fantasy value to those who drafted him this summer.
That should change against the Saints, who have been lit up by opposing pass offenses this season, including big fantasy performances by the Vikings Adam Thielen and Stefon Diggs in Week 1.
Just keep an eye on Benjamins injury status, as he has been slowed by knee soreness.
Martavis Bryant (PIT at Bears)  Antonio Brown is the obvious receiver to get excited about against the Bears porous secondary, but do not forget about Bryant, who had 91 yards and a touchdown last week against the Vikings.
This performance came after Bryant looked out of sorts in Week 1, his first regular-season N.F.L.
game in over a year.
Expect his chemistry with Ben Roethlisberger to continue growing as the season progresses, and expect him to get some help from a Bears secondary that allowed the sixth most fantasy points to wide receivers in 2016 (25.2 F.P.P.G.).
Also consider: Doug Baldwin (SEA at Titans).
Tight End

Jared Cook (OAK at Redskins)  He saw 11 of quarterback Derek Carrs 60 targets last week, though he converted only four of them into receptions for 25 yards.
Still, it shows that he is a major player in this passing offense, and a very solid streaming tight end option this week against the Redskins, who have allowed the most yards to opposing tight ends so far in 2017.
Defense/Special Teams

Ravens (vs. JAC at London); Patriots (vs. HOU).
Kicker

Giorgio Tavecchio (OAK at Redskins); Graham Gano (CAR vs. Saints).
I think the real Bernie Casey is coming through, he told Life.
There are all sorts of signs.
Just the other day, I was walking through a gallery and a man walked up and said, Are you Bernard Casey, the artist?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey balanced painting abstract oils and fantasy landscapes with acting once he stopped playing football.
He retired after the 1968 season, three years after Jim Brown, the N.F.L.s biggest star, abrupty ended his career with the Cleveland Browns and began to act.
One of Mr. Caseys first roles was in tick  tick  tick , a 1970 thriller with Mr. Brown.
He went on to play J. C. Caroline, a Chicago Bears teammate of the dying Brian Piccolo, in the television movie Brians Song (1971); a C.I.A.
agent working with Sean Connery in the James Bond film Never Say Never Again (1983); and an aging action hero in Im Gonna Git You Sucka (1989), a parody of the blaxploitation genre that reunited him with Mr. Brown.
Mr. Casey also appeared in three of the Revenge of the Nerds movies, a series of comedies about collegiate misfits fighting a jock fraternity.
He played U. N. Jefferson, president of the Lambda Lambda Lambda fraternity.
Photo

In 1973, he portrayed the paralyzed former National Basketball Association player Maurice Stokes in the film Maurie.
Writing in The New York Times, the columnist Dave Anderson praised Mr. Casey for capturing the agonizing effort required by Mr. Stokes to lift a spoon and recalled a conversation he had with Mr. Casey late in his football career.
Just because Im a football player, he told Mr. Anderson, doesnt mean I cant be something else at the same time.
Most of us live on a small portion of our capacity.
I dont want to let the limitation of others limit me.
Bernard Terry Casey was born on June 8, 1939, in Wyco, W. Va. His father, Frank, was a coal miner.
His mother was the former Flossie Coleman.
In addition to playing on the Bowling Green football team, which was voted the small college champion in 1959, Mr. Casey competed in the high hurdles and finished sixth at the 1960 Olympic trials, short of making the team.
He earned a bachelors degree and a masters of fine arts from Bowling Green.
He was drafted by the 49ers, the New York Titans (who became the Jets) of the American Football League and the Montreal Alouettes of the Canadian Football League.
He chose the 49ers because, he said, San Francisco would advance his artistic dreams.
He was traded in 1967 to the Atlanta Falcons, which quickly sent him to the Rams.
Photo

Collectors of his paintings have included Sidney Poitier, Burt Reynolds and Maya Angelou, according to the Thelma Harris Art Gallery in Oakland, which had a major show of Mr. Caseys paintings in 2003.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Casey also published a few books of poetry, including Look at the People (1969) and Where Is the Revolution  and Other Poems (1973).
He is survived by his sister, Frankie Murray.
His marriage to Paula Campbell ended in divorce.
They had no children.
In 1997, Mr. Casey directed, wrote and produced the movie The Dinner, which featured three African-American men talking about slavery, white superiority, black crime and other racial subjects around a dinner table.
It was a departure from the action films and comedies he was known for.
But it was close to his heart and based on conversations with his friends.
None of the characters had names; they were Good Brother (Mr. Casey), Young Brother (Wren Brown) and Brother Man (Doug Johnson).
Most people dont know us, as African-Americans, Mr. Casey said at the time, even those of us who are greatly celebrated.
We are so expendable, we have no history in the context of the nation.
At that moment, he writes, My brain is thinking only lengthen and soften and disperse.
Mr. Brady attributes much of his unusually long N.F.L.
career and the relatively little playing time he has lost to injuries to this kind of gnomic self-talk and his muscular pliability.
But most of us are not pliable, he tells us, and our workouts are not helping.
Standard weight training and conditioning exercises, such as running and sprints, tighten and harden our muscles, he writes, opening us to injury.
Instead, we should do less weight training or conditioning and more of something else.
It involves targeted, deep-force muscle work, Mr. Brady writes.
Think of a deep, rigorous massage, but much more focused, and in my case using complex techniques based on an understanding of the biomechanics of what it takes for me to throw a football and function at peak levels as an athlete who accelerates, decelerates, runs, cuts, and more, as well as the daily acts of living that complement my off-field life.
Got it?
Me, neither.
Thankfully, Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero amplify and simplify their instructions as the book continues.
Mere massage does not produce pliability, they write.
You must contract muscles while also stretching and pummeling them, preferably with high-tech, vibrating foam rollers or vibrating spheres, Mr. Brady writes.
These are available at The TB12 Method online store for $150 and up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The problem with this notion is that exercise science has never heard of muscle pliability.
Its balderdash, says Stuart Phillips, a professor at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, and an expert in muscle physiology.
In scientific terms, he says, muscles that are soft tend to be muscles that are sick.
When folks do little or nothing, as, for instance, during bed rest, then their muscles get very soft, he says.
Mr. Brady and Mr. Guerrero have not conducted or published clinical trials of muscle pliability.
Neither has anyone else.
On the huge PubMed online database of published science, I found only one experiment that contains the words pliability and muscles, and it concerned the efficacy of different embalming techniques.
The books sections on diet and nutrition similarly lack supporting evidence, although not common sense.
Mr. Brady writes that, like him, we should avoid sugary foods and other processed carbohydrates.
The TB12 Method advocates for a plant-based, locally sourced, organic diet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It also, however, strays into the eccentric when it suggests that we eschew foods in the nightshade family, including tomatoes, strawberries, eggplants and potatoes, focus on foods high in alkalinity  such as artichokes, dandelion greens and escarole, and cut back on foods that supposedly raise acid levels in our blood, like beef, salmon, butter and cheese.
Mr. Brady does not explain or justify these dietary choices in this book.
For that, we need to consult the separate TB12 Nutrition Manual (available for $200 at tb12store.com).
Mainstream nutritional science, meanwhile, is fine with tomatoes and does not support alkaline diets.
Artichokes are healthful, but not because they blunt the acidity of our blood (which is what most proponents of alkaline diets claim for these foods).
We have kidneys for that.
Its worth noting that Mr. Guerrero, a self-taught exercise guru, has twice been investigated by the Federal Trade Commission for making unsubstantiated health claims about products he developed, including a nutritional supplement that supposedly protected athletes against concussions.
The book does not mention his past.
Still, the TB12 Method is not without value.
The books tone is humble and encouraging.
Mr. Brady prefaces his more outlandish health claims with such qualifiers as I believe or This is what works for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most important, the book provides useful photographic and textual instructions for dozens of body-weight resistance training exercises, many done with resistance bands.
(The TB12 Method branded set is available for $160 at the companys website).
These exercises could credibly improve our flexibility  a muscular attribute that actually exists  and joint range of motion, says Malachy McHugh, the director of research at the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City.
Interventions that can maintain the functional range of motion of a series of muscle groups are critical to maintaining function as we get older, Dr. McHugh says.
Plus, The TB12 Method physical book weighs about three pounds, according to my bathroom scale, and that is a nice heft for light resistance training.
Photo

Seth Lugo pitched two-hit ball over six innings, and Travis dArnaud hit a record-setting homer for the Mets in a 3-2 victory over the visiting Atlanta Braves on Monday night, splitting a doubleheader.
DArnauds solo shot in the eighth inning helped the Mets rebound from a 9-2 loss in the opener.
It was the 219th homer for the Mets, a franchise season record.
The sparse crowd at Citi Field jeered when the home run apple did not rise after dArnauds homer, then cheered when it finally appeared three batters later.
Lugo (7-5) turned in the best performance of his career, allowing just two singles.
Lugo struck out seven, did not issue a walk and retired the final 12 batters he faced as the Mets won for just the third time in 15 games.
Brandon Nimmo matched a career high with three hits in the nightcap, including a single off starter Max Fried (1-1) that led off the third.
Juan Lagares, who had four hits in the two games, hit the next pitch back to the mound, and Frieds throw went well over the head of first baseman Rio Ruiz for a two-base error.
Asdrubal Cabrera grounded to second to score the first run, and dArnaud followed with a double to deep center field to score Lagares.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Atlanta mounted rallies in each of the last two innings, finally breaking through against Jeurys Familia in the ninth.
Kurt Suzuki singled to begin the rally, and Freddie Freeman reached on a fielding error by Familia.
Johan Camargo grounded out to advance the runners, and Jace Peterson then singled to left to end the shutout bid.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Pinch-hitter Matt Kemp grounded to first to score Freeman, but Familia rebounded to retire pinch-hitter Tyler Flowers on a grounder to third for his fifth save and his second since his return after an operation to remove a blood clot in his right arm.
Judge leads the league in runs scored while hitting .283 with 105 R.B.I., but here is the biggest reason he should win: Nobody plays the modern game better.
Besides his two homers in Mondays 11-3 rout, Judge added his 120th walk and his 203rd strikeout.
His homers, walks and strikeouts lead the A.L.
In his first full major league season, Judge has become the manifestation of the game in 2017.
Major League Baseball has set a single-season record for total home runs, as strikeout and walk rates continue to rise.
Plate discipline, launch angle, exit velocity.
Patience, power, production.
That is baseball today.
More well-rounded players who rarely strike out  like Houstons Jose Altuve, Bostons Mookie Betts and Clevelands Jose Ramirez  have also led their teams to postseason berths.
All play an exhilarating style of baseball.
But it is hard to believe anyone has been more of a force than Judge.
When we left spring training, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said, I said, If he gets the barrel of the bat to the ball, hes going to do a lot of damage  and if he does it on a consistent basis, hes going to have a huge year for us.
And thats what hes done.
You can talk about the home runs, the runs, the R.B.I.s, the walks, the defense, the base-running  over and over, hes a complete player.
There has never been a player who strikes out so much yet makes up for it so emphatically.
Only five other players have struck out 200 times in a season: Mark Reynolds (three times), Chris Carter and Chris Davis (twice each), Adam Dunn and Drew Stubbs.
In one of those seasons, Davis placed 14th in the M.V.P.
That is the highest finish ever by a player with at least 200 strikeouts.
Naturally, Judge said he had not considered the possibility of being the most valuable player, an award won by just two other rookies: Fred Lynn in 1975 and Ichiro Suzuki in 2001.
Judge is much more comfortable talking about team accomplishments.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Just like the record, I dont try to think about that, Judge said of the M.V.P.
race, especially with what this teams got going on, with this playoff push and trying to win a division.
Thats more important to me right now.
Id rather be in good position in the playoffs and holding up a World Series trophy than an A.L.
M.V.P.
trophy, at this point.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Judge reached the All-Star Game break hitting .329, but he wobbled when the season resumed.
He entered September with a .179 average since the break, precisely his average in a cameo with the Yankees last summer.
That mark was so embarrassing, Judge has acknowledged, that it fueled his workouts last winter.
Repeating that performance in the second half of this season has not worried him, Judge insists, because he had already shown what he could achieve.
Soon enough, teammates told him, he would be that superstar again.
Judge kept wearing down pitchers, even without much to show for it.
When youre going through slumps and youre struggling, sometimes players become over-anxious, Girardi said.
And he was able to maintain a sense of what he needed to do, that he needed to remain patient and look for his pitch.
From July 14 through Aug. 31, Judge hit only seven homers to go with that .179 average.
But his on-base percentage was respectable, at .346.
He may have been more bothered by a shoulder ailment than he let on, and he deflected a question about it on Monday.
His September performance  a .307 average, a .444 on-base percentage and 13 homers, the most he has hit in any month  is evidence of the revival teammates expected.
When youre making outs and youre striking out, I think its just that much harder, and to see the look on his face and how he prepared himself, still, every day, he didnt even flinch about it, third baseman Todd Frazier said.
Come in every day, got a walk, all right, its coming.
Then get a walk, maybe a blooper  and eventually he came back.
When Judge broke McGwires record Monday, with a blast to deep left center off Trevor Cahill in the seventh inning, the fans gave him his first curtain call.
Judge said he had never gotten one before  not in high school, not at Fresno State, not in the minors.
He seemed a little sheepish about it  he didnt want to interrupt the game  but the recognition was overdue.
Only four other Yankees have hit 50 home runs in a season: Babe Ruth (four times), Mickey Mantle (twice), Roger Maris and Alex Rodriguez.
Looking back at the history of the Yankees and all the greats that have put on the pinstripes, its extraordinary, Judge said.
Just getting a chance to play one game with the Yankees is quite an honor.
To have your name with those greats is something, as a kid, I never dreamed of.
This is reality now, for Judge and his game.
Even if the Yankees had won on Sunday, their chances of catching Boston would have remained slim.
But the loss raised the question of how quickly the team would be able to shake off the effects of Saturdays clincher and return to crisp baseball.
Aaron Judge, for one, did not have trouble with that.
He hit two home runs Sunday that gave him 48 for the season, one shy of the major league rookie record set by Mark McGwire in 1987 with the Oakland Athletics.
Photo

Judges first homer of the day came off Toronto starter Marcus Stroman in the sixth inning with the bases empty, and landed in the second deck beyond left field.
The second, a line drive off Ryan Tepera in the seventh, was a two-run shot to left-center.
I was swinging at the right pitches, Judge said, and thats the biggest thing.
Judge said that he was not thinking about breaking McGwires record, but that if he does it, he hopes it comes during a Yankees win.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were trying to do something special here, he said.
For Toronto, the blowout win provided a fitting stage for the home fans to say goodbye to Bautista, the slugging right fielder who is not expected to be re-signed by the team after 10 productive seasons here that included six All-Star Game appearances.
He received a standing ovation during each at-bat, and in the top of the ninth Manager John Gibbons replaced Bautista in right field, giving the crowd a moment for a final on-field salute.
Bautista hugged teammates as he left the field and also when he reached the dugout.
Then he re-emerged to wave to the fans one last time.
Bautista has 287 home runs for the Blue Jays and 218 doubles.
He also hit six home runs and drove in 16 runs during 20 playoff games over the last two years.
One of those home runs helped Toronto win the American League wild-card game here last season.
A year later, the Yankees were the ones holding a celebration at Rogers Centre, and it was unusually long and wild.
So much champagne and beer flowed in the visitors clubhouse on Saturday that there were standing puddles on the carpet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of that, Girardi said he had been wary of how his team would respond the next day.
You think about it, he said after Sundays loss.
You worry about it a little bit as you go through the emotions of last night and clinching a spot.
Starter Jaime Garcia had a particularly rough day, surrendering five runs and walking three batters in only two and one-third innings.
But he refused to use Saturdays celebration as a way to minimize his culpability.
On my part, there is no excuse, Garcia said.
I totally take the blame for this game.
I take a lot of pride when I take the mound to keep us in the ballgame, and I wasnt able to do that today.
Photo

OAKLAND, Calif.  Bruce Maxwell, a rookie catcher for the Oakland Athletics, on Saturday became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the national anthem.
Maxwell, 26, dropped to a knee just outside Oaklands dugout before a game against the Texas Rangers, adopting a protest started by the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in response to police treatment of black Americans.
Maxwells teammates stood in a line next to him, and Mark Canha put his right hand on Maxwells shoulder.
The Athletics released a statement on Twitter shortly after the anthem, saying they respect and support all of our players constitutional rights and freedom of expression and pride ourselves on being inclusive.
Major League Baseball also issued a statement, saying it has a longstanding tradition of honoring our nation prior to the start of our games but that we also respect that each of our players is an individual with his own background, perspectives and opinions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maxwells gesture came after President Trump denounced anthem protests by N.F.L.
players and rescinded a White House invitation to the N.B.A.s Stephen Curry in a two-day rant that targeted top professional athletes.
Photo

For the first time since April 30, the Mets ace, Noah Syndergaard, took the mound in a major league game on Saturday.
As planned, he pitched just the first inning before giving way to Matt Harvey in a 4-3 loss to the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.
Syndergaard, who has been recovering from a partially torn right latissimus muscle, allowed a hit but threw only five pitches in the scoreless inning.
It was great to see him out there, Manager Terry Collins said.
With a week left in the season, Syndergaard was running out of time to rebuild enough arm strength to start a game for the Mets.
He previously made two minor league rehabilitation starts and threw one simulated game.
His fastball registered 99 miles per hour on the radar gun, normal for Syndergaard, a hard-throwing right-hander.
He gave up a single to Jayson Werth but erased Werth from the bases by getting Daniel Murphy to hit into a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One inning is all I needed to get my feet wet and go into the off-season healthy, said Syndergaard, who is expected to make one more start this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He added, I felt like I needed it, because Ive put in so much work over the past five months.
Joe Girardi, the Yankees manager, said that the team would pursue the division title, and that the secondary goal would be retaining home-field advantage for the wild-card game.
Photo

I think its important that we keep our foot on the gas and see where we lie, Girardi said.
You dont want guys to lose that edge that theyve had for so long.
The Yankees were committed this season to a balancing act of rebuilding the team while also trying to win now, and they made it work.
Last year they traded away veteran stars like Andrew Miller and Aroldis Chapman to stock the minor league system with prized prospects, hoping to build toward a prosperous future with a core of talented young players already in place, including Greg Bird, Aaron Judge, Gary Sanchez and Luis Severino.
But General Manager Brian Cashman also made moves to fortify the team for this years push.
That included bringing back Chapman as a free agent, signing Matt Holliday and later trading for players like Sonny Gray, Todd Frazier, Tommy Kahnle and David Robertson without surrendering the clubs best young players.
Saturdays victory represented the fruit of those decisions.
Gray allowed one run and four hits in six innings, and Bird hit a three-run home run, his third homer in the last seven games.
Chad Green, Robertson and Chapman combined for three hitless innings in relief, and Frazier cemented the win with a solo home run in the eighth.
All we needed was an invitation, Frazier said, referring to the postseason party.
We got that invitation today.
Girardi credited the postseason berth to virtually everyone in the organization, from the owners and Cashman down to the trainers.
When spring training began in February, the Yankees were not considered a top contender.
Photo

Going into spring training, I wasnt sure, Girardi said.
But coming out of spring training, I felt really good about our team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Pitcher C. C. Sabathia, another long-serving Yankee, was also optimistic about the teams chances, based on the raw talent he saw from the beginning and on the moves Cashman made to reinforce the roster.
Obviously, the front office knew what they were doing, Sabathia said.
The last time the Yankees were in the postseason was 2015, but Sabathia did not attend the wild-card loss to the Houston Astros because he had admitted himself to a rehabilitation center to deal with alcoholism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Saturday he stood mostly to the side of the clubhouse and watched the revelry with a huge smile on his face.
It feels good, he said, just to be able to get back in the playoffs, obviously, and be able to help the team.
It feels good.
The party raged on as players and coaches soaked in the moment.
Were getting after it a little bit right now, Frazier said.
Well deserved.
Well be back to business again tomorrow.
Weve still got a division to try and win, too.
This is a good team, and we all know what to do.
INSIDE PITCH

Luis Severino was struck in the upper back with a baseball during batting practice, but he said he was O.K.
An intruder got past stadium security on Friday and into the Yankees clubhouse, but he was caught and arrested after trying to steal a helmet and some baseballs.
With one out in the third inning, Frazier was on second base after a double.
Jacoby Ellsbury lined a ball into right field, and Bautista made one of three fine plays in the game  a leaping grab of the ball over his head.
As Frazier scrambled back to the bag, Bautista threw the ball back in to Goins, the second baseman.
Photo

Goins pretended to casually throw back to Estrada, but actually placed the ball in his glove as Frazier stood on the base, looking toward the outfield.
When Frazier stepped of the base by just inches, Goins tagged him for the final out.
Frazier blamed his lack of concentration for the play.
I thought the ball was thrown in, and it was one of those things, he said.
Nothing you can do about it afterward.
Castro also took the blame for his mistake  failing to catch Fraziers throw in the first inning with a runner coming into second base.
Castro said he had rushed to turn the double play, and missed the ball.
The runner, Teoscar Hernandez, ended up at third and scored on a groundout by Bautista.
Perhaps both of those mistakes could have been overcome if Tanaka had pitched better.
But he gave up a bases-empty homer to Hernandez in the third and a two-run shot by the former Yankee Russell Martin in the fourth, and the Blue Jays led, 4-1.
Then in the sixth, Tanaka walked Bautista as the leadoff batter, just as he had done before Martins homer in the fourth.
Kevin Pillar singled, but Tanaka struck out Martin and Miguel Montero, hinting that he still had the stuff to get safely out of the inning.
Photo

But he walked pinch-hitter Kendrys Morales (he said he was not pitching around him to face Goins) to load the bases.
Goins was 0 for 20 against Tanaka coming into the game and had made two outs already, which is why Girardi left Tanaka in to face him.
But this time was different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Goins rocketed a high slider over Judges head and into the seats beyond right field for his eighth homer of the season.
The only other grand slam of his career came in May.
Tanaka has had a difficult season, and the Yankees have been unable to determine the reason.
Tanaka said that it was a mechanical problem and that he would have to analyze videotape of Fridays outing to determine what flaw had doomed him.
Girardi attributed Tanakas troubles to inconsistency throughout the season with his split-fingered fastball and his slider.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tanaka is 12-12, and his E.R.A.
is 4.94.
He has surrendered seven earned runs in two of his last three starts, and should the Yankees make it to the divisional round of the playoffs, his spot in the rotation could be in doubt.
You look at everything, Girardi said.
But I dont want to get too far ahead of ourselves.
We still havent clinched anything.
We need to win games, and we need to play well.
And tonight we didnt.
The Yankees will have more shots to clinch a playoff berth, but their chances to win the American League East grew smaller as the Red Sox beat the Cincinnati Reds, 5-4, increasing their lead over the Yankees to four games with nine to play.
We are still looking to win the division, Frazier said.
We know we have a really good shot at making the playoffs, of course, but we still have an opportunity to win the division, so I think our mind-set is on that.
Choosing a new manager  perhaps Ausmus, Sandy Alomar Jr., or a former Met like Alex Cora, Joe McEwing or Robin Ventura  is likely to be Aldersons first priority this winter.
An easier decision should be replacing the medical and training staff.
No one can say precisely how many of the Mets injuries could have been anticipated, prevented or minimized.
But the sheer volume of debilitating physical problems to major players demands some kind of accountability.
These Mets might have been flawed in their construction.
But with the injuries, they never had a chance to find out.
Remove Noah Syndergaard, Matt Harvey, Steven Matz, Zack Wheeler, Jeurys Familia, Yoenis Cespedes, Michael Conforto and David Wright, and of course the team flatlined.
Solving the health riddle is Aldersons most important task.
He seems open to ideas.
The injuries are not just an objective fact; there are underlying causes and issues that weve wanted to and have examined in connection with those injuries, Alderson said.
Its not going to happen just at the end of the season.
Its been an ongoing review.
As for his own performance, Alderson said, the players he sought at the trading deadline should show where he went wrong earlier.
In dealing several veterans, Alderson sought one asset most: relievers.
This seasons bullpen was too thin from the start.
I think thats sort of a tacit recognition that, look, we need to get better there, he said.
Alderson was right last winter not to match the Atlanta Braves one-year, $12.5 million offer to Bartolo Colon, who had steadied the Mets rotation for three memorable seasons.
Colon looks finished now.
His 6.63 earned run average, with the Braves and the Minnesota Twins, is the worst in the majors for pitchers with at least 20 starts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But the Mets were not as deep in starters as they thought.
By Memorial Day, they had given desperate promotions to Tommy Milone, Adam Wilk and Tyler Pill, who have combined to go 0-7.
Clearly, they need more than just bullpen depth.
We also are going to have to look at the rotation and see whether theres some stabilizing addition we can make that will help us bridge some of the uncertainty that comes from pitchers whove been hurt and are coming back, Alderson said.
Well be in a similar situation next year as we were this year, and hoping for better results  but perhaps planning for the possibility that they dont all come back.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With few high-impact starters besides Jake Arrieta and Yu Darvish on the free-agent market, the Mets might have to overpay for a reliable mid-rotation arm like Andrew Cashner, Alex Cobb, Lance Lynn or Jason Vargas.
Whomever they pursue, Alderson acknowledged that with so much uncertainty in the rotation, the Mets would have to pay closer attention to defense.
Shortstop Amed Rosario has been a revelation in the field, but can the rest of the lineup bash enough to support Juan Lagares, who has a weak bat but a sterling glove in center field?
When your pitchers arent striking everybody out, as weve had the benefit of in the past, the defense becomes a little more important, Alderson said, adding that there has been a recognition after this year that if were going to have pitching that puts the ball in play a little more, then the defense is going to have to be more of a priority.
If only the Mets had forgiven Daniel Murphy his defensive shortcomings, instead of letting him leave after his slugging led them to the 2015 World Series.
Murphy came back to town this weekend hitting .316 with 22 homers in the second season of a bargain three-year, $37.5 million contract with Washington.
Murphy was out of the lineup Friday, easing into another playoff run.
His Mets replacement, Neil Walker, was traded last month to Milwaukee.
Maybe Murphy will start on Saturday to face his old teammates, Syndergaard and Harvey, who will pitch for the Mets.
Syndergaard has not pitched since April 30 because of a torn right latissimus muscle, and he will work the first inning only.
Harvey, who has been shelled in his return from shoulder trouble, will follow.
Not long ago, they were swaggering superheroes, Thor and the Dark Knight.
Their return will be a bittersweet episode of a failed series.
In the back of your mind, youre saying, If we could have had these guys   Collins said.
But you didnt.
Thats the reality of it all.
You try not to get caught up in what could have been, because it didnt.
Photo

TORONTO  Yankees third baseman Todd Frazier, who hit the foul ball that struck a young girl in the face at Yankee Stadium on Wednesday afternoon, said he spoke to the girls father on Thursday and had been told that she was recovering well in a hospital.
He said shes doing good, Frazier said before the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays on Friday night.
He said the family is really happy that shes O.K.
I think they are going to do a couple more tests over the next few days, and hopefully she can get out of there.
Frazier said the girls father told him not to blame himself, and Frazier said he felt a measure of relief after the conversation.
He added that he planned to check in with the family every day, at least until the girl is discharged from the hospital.
He also said he hoped to meet her soon.
Since the incident, three major league teams have announced that they will extend the protective netting at their parks to the full lengths of the dugouts.
Another team, the Colorado Rockies, said it had already been considering the move.
Ten other teams have already extended their netting.
The Yankees, while expressing concern for the girl in public statements, have not specifically addressed whether they will extend their netting.
Frazier said it was time for all teams to do so immediately, even before the regular season ends on Oct. 1.
I think 2018 is already too late, he said.
They should be up sooner than that.
Eppler propped up his offense on Aug. 31  the last day to add players who could be eligible for the postseason  by trading for outfielder Justin Upton and second baseman Brandon Phillips, adding firepower to a lineup led by the peerless Mike Trout.
But the rotation has stayed in constant flux.
Only one pitcher has thrown 150 innings  Ricky Nolasco, whose earned run average is 5.06.
Elbow trouble cost Garrett Richards five months and ended the seasons of J. C. Ramirez and Alex Meyer.
Another starter, Andrew Heaney, is out with a sore shoulder, and the Angels plan to replace him with a procession of relievers, as they did in a seven-man, tag-team victory on Sept. 15.
Given all that, it is no surprise that the Angels have set a club record for victories by relievers.
Their bullpen has been fairly stable, with five pitchers working at least 55 games.
The staff has been helped greatly by impeccable team defense, which FanGraphs ranked as the second best in the majors, behind only the Boston Red Sox.
We laid the blueprint out in the wintertime, as far as understanding theres a run-producing aspect and a run-prevention aspect, Eppler said.
Lets try to grow the distance between those two variables as great as we can.
The Angels two best defenders, according to FanGraphs, have been shortstop Andrelton Simmons and catcher Martin Maldonado.
Eppler acquired Simmons from Atlanta before last season, and Maldonado from Milwaukee last winter.
Those moves and others might help the Angels squeeze into the playoffs, if they make the most of their remaining games against Houston, Seattle and the Chicago White Sox.
If they make it, the Angels could meet a fitting opponent in the American League wild-card game on Oct. 3  the Yankees.
We benefited from Billys baseball I.Q.
for a long time, like the Angels are now, Cashman said last week.
Im not surprised by any success they have, because they hired the right man, and they will benefit for a long time from that decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An Assist From a Button

Sure, he lacked the balletic grace of Byron Buxton, Kevin Pillar or Andrelton Simmons.
But Nick Pivetta, a pitcher for the Philadelphia Phillies, might have made the catch of the year during his teams recent four-game series victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers.
With two outs in the sixth inning on Monday, the Dodgers Austin Barnes smoked a liner back up the middle at 106 miles per hour, too fast for Pivetta to get a glove on it.
Instead, his button-down jersey made the play for him.
Had Pivetta been pitching for the Phillies from 1973 to 1986, when the team wore zipper-front jerseys, this would have been impossible.
But Barness hit nestled inside Pivettas shirt, entering between the buttons, and Pivetta stayed upright.
He reached inside his jersey, found the ball and flipped it behind him as he trotted off the field to end the inning.
Actually, its funny, Pivetta told reporters after the game.
My last game in junior college, on one of the outs, I had a ball similar to that.
I caught it in my stomach.
That one hit my forearm, then my stomach.
So thats the second time it happened to me.
I didnt even see the ball.
Technically, Pivetta needed to throw the ball to first to complete the out.
According to Rule 5.09(a): A catch is the act of a fielder in getting secure possession in his hand or glove of a ball in flight and firmly holding it; providing he does not use his cap, protector, pocket or any other part of his uniform in getting possession.
But the umpires ruled it a catch, the Dodgers did not complain  and it was clearly Pivettas night, anyway.
He has a 6.57 earned run average for the season, but on Monday he beat the three-time Cy Young Award winner Clayton Kershaw to earn his sixth victory.
Stamina in the Bullpen

Few playoff teams have a reliever quite like Chris Devenski of the Houston Astros.
Devenski has thrown 78 and one-third innings in relief this season, more than any other pitcher for a division-leading team.
He could be the Astros answer to Clevelands Andrew Miller as a critical multiple-inning weapon for the playoffs.
Photo

Devenski worked more than one inning 17 times before pitching in the All-Star Game, his first, and he has done so far less often since then, which should keep him rested for October.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Astros acquired Devenski to little fanfare in a 2012 trade with the Chicago White Sox for Brett Myers, a veteran who was pitching his last full season in the majors.
Devenski, who had been drafted in the 25th round the year before, was in low Class A with a 4.23 E.R.A.
I had a lot of failure in the minor leagues, and I always learned something from it, he said this summer.
It helps me become better.
The pitcher I am now, he goes out there and he dominates.
Theres going to be rough times, but thats part of the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Devenski dominates with a changeup he learned in high school but took many years to perfect.
He recognized the pitch as his ticket to the majors shortly after the trade, when he used it for about 60 percent of his pitches in a 16-strikeout, Class A no-hitter.
Even as his E.R.A.
swelled to 6.60 the next year, Devenski kept faith in the changeup.
I had to just continue to throw it and throw it and throw it, Devenski said.
Its like if youre digging for coal and youve got diamonds on the other side of the coal and you continue to dig and continue to dig.
What if you give up, and you were two inches away from the diamonds?
Its kind of like I did the same thing with my changeup.
I was going to continue to throw this and throw this and throw this until something good came out of it.
I always knew I could develop it into something nasty.
Devenski throws his changeup around 83 miles an hour, and his fastball around 94.
He throws both pitches about 40 percent of the time, and also uses a slider.
It is a rare three-pitch mix for a reliever, but useful for one who may face hitters more than once per game.
Devenski spoke with Miller about their roles at the All-Star Game, and the two could meet again in the playoffs.
Not many teams, if any teams, have what he can do for them right now, his flexibility, his length, Miller said in July.
I dont think anybodys looking forward to facing the Astros for a lot of reasons, but hes certainly part of it.
Near-Miss No-Hitters

The Detroit Tigers Matthew Boyd lost a no-hitter with two outs in the ninth inning last Sunday when Tim Anderson of the Chicago White Sox lined a two-out double to right.
That was the sixth time this season that a no-hitter had been broken up in the ninth inning or later, the most in the majors since 1989.
Photo

That season, Kirk McCaskill, John Farrell, Tom Browning, Dave Stieb and Nolan Ryan  twice!
lost no-hitters in the ninth.
Ryan had thrown five of his record seven no-hitters by then, Browning had tossed a perfect game the year before and Stieb would get his no-hitter the next season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This years group has never pitched a no-hitter.
After the Miami Marlins lost a combined no-hitter by Wei-Yin Chen, Brad Ziegler and Kyle Barraclough in April, Atlantas Mike Foltynewicz, Colorados Kyle Freeland, Washingtons Gio Gonzalez, the Los Angeles Dodgers Rich Hill (in the 10th inning) and Boyd joined the list.
Only one pitcher has finished a no-hitter this season: Miamis Edinson Volquez against Arizona on June 3.
Alas, the season did not end happily for Volquez, who two months later underwent Tommy John surgery for the second time in his career.
Speaking of Volquez, 34, how many pitchers have experienced as many extremes as he has?
Besides his no-hitter and surgeries, Volquez has been traded for Josh Hamilton (in 2007); made an All-Star team (2008); served a suspension for performance-enhancing drugs (2010); lost his playoff debut, when Philadelphias Roy Halladay threw a no-hitter against him (2010); started on opening day for three teams (San Diego in 2012 and 2013, Kansas City in 2016, Miami in 2017); started Game 1 of the World Series the day his father died, then started the clincher five days later (in 2015); and in various seasons led his league in earned runs, walks, hit batters and wild pitches.
Advertisement

Baseball Diamonds Arent Forever: Bygone Ballparks of New York Much of the games history can be traced through these five ballparks, which have all been torn down.
When shortstop Don Zimmers throw settled into first baseman Gil Hodgess glove to seal a 2-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates 60 years ago this month, the Dodgers had played their final game in Brooklyn.
With the Dodgers gone from Brooklyn, so was professional baseball at their longtime ballpark, Ebbets Field.
Before long, Ebbets Field was gone, too, one in a series of ballparks that nurtured major league baseball in New York City before succumbing to the wrecking ball.
Five New York ballparks built in baseballs modern era, which began early in the 20th century  Hilltop Park (1903-12), the Polo Grounds (1911-63), Ebbets Field (1913-57), Yankee Stadium (1923-2008) and Shea Stadium (1964-2008)  seeded much of the games history before being torn down.
You can trace that history, and even more than baseball, below.
Image The Brooklyn Dodgers in their heyday at Ebbets Field.
The Dodgers won six National League pennants in their final 11 seasons in the ballpark.
Credit Ernie Sisto/The New York Times

Ebbets Field

First game: April 9, 1913.
Philadelphia Phillies 1, Dodgers 0.
Brooklyn Starts Season a Loser.
Benny Meyer Upsets Game by His Errors  Cold Chills 10,000 Fans.
Advertisement

Last game: Sept. 24, 1957.
Dodgers 2, Pittsburgh Pirates 0.
Dodgers Defeat Pirates in Ebbets Field Finale.
MDevitt Victor on 5-Hitter, 2-0.
Other games: An N.F.L.
team played at Ebbets Field from 1930 to 1944, as the Dodgers (1930-43) and the Tigers (44).
The teams had three winning records in 15 seasons.
The Brooklyn Eagles of the Negro National League played one season there, 1935.
Their owners, Abe and Effa Manley, later owned the star-studded Newark Eagles.
Distinguishing architectural feature: 80-foot-high Italian marble rotunda.
Short porch in right field: 297 feet, although with a high wall and, eventually, a scoreboard and a net.
Left-handed-hitting beneficiary: Duke Snider, 175 home runs at Ebbets Field.
Image Fans waiting at Ebbets Field to buy World Series tickets in 1955, Brooklyns only championship season.
Two years later, the Dodgers left; in 1960, the ballpark was razed.
Credit Neal Boenzi/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Dodgers outfielder, playing at Ebbets Field from its opening season, 1913, through 1917.
The teams were mostly terrible, except for a pennant in 1916.
Dodgers manager, 1934-36.
Those teams were also terrible, compiling a record of 208-251.
Babe Ruth connection: Played two games at Ebbets Field for the Boston Braves in his final season, 1935; went hitless in eight plate appearances.
Coach for the 1938 Dodgers .
Subway World Series: Brooklyn faced the Yankees in 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956.
Wait till next year except in 1955.
Music: The Sym-Phony Band, a group of fans who played in the stands during games.
Sample number: Three Blind Mice for the umpires.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: In 1931 a Gaelic football match was played at night under portable lights, seven years before the first night game there.
Image The distinctively shaped Polo Grounds  like a horseshoe or a bathtub?
was home to three major league baseball teams (Giants, Yankees, Mets) and two professional football teams (Giants, Titans/Jets).
Credit Associated Press

Polo Grounds

First game: June 28, 1911.
Giants 3, Boston Beaneaters 0.
Giants Reopen Polo Grounds and Win : The Times reported that more than 6,000 fans in the half-finished ballpark saw Boston perform its customary daily act of being defeated.
Last game: Sept. 18, 1963: Phillies 5, Mets 1.
Era of Mets Ends at Polo Grounds : The Giants had a last game in 1957 before moving to San Francisco.
Then the Mets had a goodbye ceremony for the Polo Ground s in 1962.
But Shea Stadium was not ready for the 1963 season, so they had one more Polo Grounds farewell.
Advertisement

Other games: The Yankees played at the Polo Grounds from 1913 to 1922.
The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1925 to 1955.
The Titans/Jets of the A.F.L.
played there from 1960 to 1963.
College football, especially Army.
The New York Cubans of the Negro leagues played frequently at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1950.
Jack Dempsey was knocked out of the ring there (but climbed back in and knocked out Luis Firpo in the next round).
In the waning years of the Polo Grounds, auto racing was conducted.
Richard Pettys father, Lee, raced there.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Horseshoe or bathtub shape, depending on how you looked at it.
Image Credit

Short porch in right field: 258 feet.
Beneficiaries: Mel Ott (323 home runs at the Polo Grounds).
Babe Ruth (85 home runs in 227 games before Yankee Stadium opened).
Short porch in left field: 279 feet.
Beneficiary: Bobby Thomson, who hit the so-called Shot Heard Round the World in 1951 down the left-field line.
Casey Stengel connection: Giants outfielder, 1921-23.
Mets manager, 1962-63.
Babe Ruth connection: Played there three seasons for the Yankees (1920-22) plus in three World Series (losing the first two, in 1921 and 22, when the Polo Grounds was the home for both teams).
Subway World Series: 1921-23.
Music: A chorus of 1,200 and a full orchestra performed Verdis Requiem in June 1916.
The Times called it impressive and interesting and as delightful as could be expected given the open-air acoustics.
The Giants werent playing because it was a Sunday.
Whats there now: Apartments.
Fun fact: Polo was never played at this version of the Polo Grounds below Coogans Bluff, only at the original site, on 110th Street, in the 1880s.
Image Babe Ruth scoring a run in his final season with the Yankees, in 1934.
Yankee Stadium was already known as the House That Ruth Built.
Credit Associated Press

Yankee Stadium

First game: April 18, 1923.
Yankees 4, Red Sox 1.
74,200 See Yankees Open New Stadium; Ruth Hits Home Run.
Record Baseball Crowd Cheers as Sluggers Drive Beats Red Sox, 4 to 1.
25,000 Are Turned Away.
Gates to $2,500,000 Arena Are Closed Half an Hour Before Start of Game.
Governor Smith Throws Out First Ball  Shawkey, in Great Form, Allows Only Three Hits : It was the first ballpark to be called a stadium.
Last game: Sept. 21, 2008.
Yankees 7, Orioles 3.
A Long Goodbye to an 85-Year Run 

Other games: The N.F.L.
Giants played there from 1956 to 1973.
The Stadium was the site of what came to be called  The Greatest Game Ever Played,  the 1958 championship game between the Giants and the Baltimore Colts.
College football, especially Army-Notre Dame games.
Host to a groundbreaking Negro league baseball doubleheader in 1930, then was the frequent home of the New York Black Yankees for much of the time from 1936 to 1947.
Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali fought major fights there; Alis third bout with Ken Norton was the final fight staged at the Stadium.
Distinguishing architectural feature: Frieze decorating the top of the Stadium.
Short porch in right field: Originally 258 feet, then 295 feet.
Advertisement

Left-handed-hitting beneficiaries: Mickey Mantle (266 home runs, though not all left-handed), Babe Ruth (259) and Lou Gehrig (251).
Image The roofline frieze was such an elemental part of the design of old Yankee Stadium that it was incorporated in the new Stadium.
The Yankees didn't recycle all those pillars, though.
Credit Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times

Casey Stengel connection: Played in the first World Series game there as a member of the Giants in 1923, hitting the game-deciding home run in the top of the ninth.
Yankees manager, 1949-60.
They were terrific, winning 10 pennants and seven World Series in 12 years.
Babe Ruth connection: It was called the House That Ruth Built.
He played there from 1923 to 1934.
Subway World Series: 1923, 1936, 1937 and 1951, against the Giants; 1941, 1947, 1949, 1952, 1953, 1955 and 1956, against the Dodgers; and 2000, against the Mets.
11-1 in those Series.
Music: The first concert was a 1969 R&B show hosted by the Isley Brothers.
Later artists included U2 and Billy Joel.
Whats there now: Athletic fields, including three diamonds, adjacent to the new Yankee Stadium.
Fun fact: A year after the evangelist Billy Graham attracted 100,000 people, a Jehovahs Witnesses convention drew more than 123,000 people to the ballpark in 1958.
Many of those outside munched hot dogs as they listened to the speeches over amplifiers, The Times reported.
Image Shea Stadium was home to young fans and other baseball staples  peanut shells on the ground and popcorn in hand.
Credit John Orris/The New York Times

Shea Stadium

First game: April 17, 1964.
Pittsburgh Pirates 4, Mets 3.
Shea Stadium Opens With Big Traffic Jam.
Last game: Sept. 28, 2008.
Florida Marlins 4, Mets 2.
Bitter Repeat on.
Stadiums Final Day 

Other games: The Jets played at Shea from 1964 to 1983, and the Giants joined them for the 1975 season.
The Yankees played there in 1974-75 while Yankee Stadium was being renovated.
So in 1975, Shea was home to two major league baseball teams and two N.F.L.
teams.
Not especially good teams: The Mets were 82-80, the Yankees 83-77, the Jets 3-11 and the Giants 5-9.
Thats an overall 173-177 record.
The teams were 88-85 at Shea.
Distinguishing architectural feature: The big apple in center field.
Image The Mayors Trophy exhibition game at Shea in 1964 reunited Casey Stengel, the former Yankees manager who was then managing the Mets, with two of his old Yankees stars, Mickey Mantle and Yogi Berra.
Credit Larry C. Morris/The New York Times

Porch in right field: Not short at all, 338 feet.
Left-handed-hitting victim: Darryl Strawberry (127 home runs at Shea.
With a fence 40 feet closer, how many?).
Advertisement

Casey Stengel connection: Managed the Mets there in 1964-65.
Subway World Series: 2000.
The Yankees won.
Music: The Beatles ushered in the era of arena concerts, playing at Shea on Aug. 15, 1965 , and Aug. 23, 1966.
The Police drew 70,000 there in 1983.
Whats there now: A parking lot for Citi Field.
Fun fact: A dome was proposed for Shea in March 1965, and the citys sports commissioner said it could be ready in 1966.
Turns out, however, that the stadiums foundation could not stand the weight.
Image Hilltop Park in its final season, 1912.
The Highlanders, who became the Yankees, lost 102 games that season and never won a pennant while playing in the ballpark.
Credit George Grantham Bain Collection, via Library of Congress

Hilltop Park

First game: April 30, 1903.
Highlanders 6, Senators 2.
Baseballs Big Crowd.
Auspicious Opening of American League Grounds in This City.
Home Team Won From Washington  New York National League Nine Lost in Philadelphia.
Last game: Oct. 5, 1912.
Yankees 8, Senators 6.
Senators Force Yankees to Win.
With Second Place Safe, Griffith Sends Nick Altrock Into the Box on Hilltop.
Other games: The National League Giants spent two months playing at Hilltop Park after the Polo Grounds burned down before the start of the 1911 season.
Columbia Universitys football team rented the ballpark for its game against Williams on Oct. 8, 1904, forcing the baseball team then known as the Highlanders to relocate a doubleheader to Boston in the heat of a pennant race.
The Highlanders lost both games and also lost the pennant to the Pilgrims (now Red Sox) by one and a half games.
Columbia, however, won the football game .
Image Credit

Distinguishing architectural feature: The ballpark was built on high ground in Washington Heights, thus earning its name.
Distant porch in right field: 400 feet.
Center field was even more unreachable: 542 feet.
Victim: Everyone.
The best Highlanders slugger in that Dead Ball Era: Hal Chase, 20 home runs at Hilltop Park.
Whats there now: Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Fun fact: The ballpark was originally, if briefly, called American League Park.
And The Times called the team the Greater New York Club and the Greater New Yorks on opening day.
They quickly became the Highlanders and before long the Yankees.
That will leave more than a dozen teams with netting that goes beyond Manfreds 2015 recommendation.
More and more, the Twins have company.
From our perspective, it was simply the right thing to do, St. Peter said of the 2016 extension.
Im happy to report, over time, theres no doubt in my mind our nets here have prevented some injuries.
Its hard to quantify just how many.
Mostly batted balls, but sometimes even bats that sometimes fly out of batters hands.
The Twins allowed season ticket-holders to check out the sight lines behind the new netting before the 2016 season and to request a seat relocation if they found the view unacceptable.
St. Peter said roughly 10 customers took the Twins up on the offer.
For our season-ticket base, netting is part of their new reality, he said.
Target Field was built on a tight, eight-acre parcel, bordered by two bridges, an interstate highway and a garbage incinerator.
Railroad tracks had to be relocated.
The close quarters gave Target Field, which opened in 2010, an intimate feel.
But it also left fans closer to hard-hit foul balls.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
St. Peter said the club was discussing whether to add even more netting.
The Mets added netting this summer at Citi Field that stretches halfway into the outfield, and St. Peter wouldnt rule out some clubs eventually deciding to run netting all the way to the foul poles.
I think over time youre going to see more netting across the industry, with hopes of doing everything we can to prevent the types of injury that took place yesterday, St. Peter said.
We still have injuries in our ballpark and weve added more netting.
It isnt a perfect system.
Thats why its something we always need to continually evaluate and find ways to get better.
I have to tell you, he added, were not married to our current net configuration.
We expect over time it will probably grow.
St. Peter also noted that he had watched video replays of Wednesdays incident and had been shaken by what he witnessed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yankee Stadium has netting that only runs to the beginning of each dugout.
If it ran the length of the dugouts, as it does at Target Field, the line drive that struck the girl would have almost certainly been deflected away.
On Thursday, Manfred that in light of Wednesdays incident, baseball would redouble its efforts to get more teams to add protective netting in their ballparks.
He also said he was encouraged by the number of conversations his office had with various clubs on Thursday about installing more netting.
So a trend the Twins began may be gathering more momentum.
This summer, they stretched the netting at Citi Field halfway into the outfield.
In response, Trost offered what amounted to a verbal shrug.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, he said of any additional netting at Yankee Stadium beyond what Manfred had asked for.
Trosts statement certainly suggested that the Yankees were as mindful of their high-paying fans who didnt want extra screens interfering with their views as they were with keeping everyone safe.
At that time, in late July, Trost said that the Yankees were consulting with the architectural firm that built their stadium about the feasibility of installing extra netting.
He said the Yankees would think about it and study it and look at it.
We dont think this is a three-day job, he said.
Well, then, is it a 60-day job?
Because thats about how long it has been since Trost made that statement.
I bet it could be a three-hour job if that little girl in the stands on Wednesday night was your child.
Yes, the Yankees also put a statement on their website in early August saying that they were seriously exploring additional netting, but they have said little on the matter since then.
On Thursday, they issued a statement saying their thoughts and prayers were with the injured girl and that they were in contact with her family.
But thoughts and prayers are not enough.
Meanwhile, across town, the Mets look like champions for extending their netting and doing so proactively before something awful happened.
After all, safety changes in sports almost always seem to happen only after disasters happen.
It was only when a 13-year-old girl was killed by a flying puck at an N.H.L.
game in 2002 that the league called for mandatory netting to be installed at both ends of the rink.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So now the question is what it will take for Major League Baseball to make every team do what some teams already have and extend the protective netting even more.
Youd figure that a toddler getting hit in the face would be the tipping point and there were signs on Thursday that maybe it will be, with three teams  Cincinnati, Seattle, San Diego  all saying they would extend the netting now in their ballparks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is worth remembering in all this that, for decades, there have been harrowing incidents at baseball games in which fans were injured.
In 1970, a 14-year-old boy was killed by a foul ball at Dodgers Stadium.
Many years and many injuries later, a Red Sox fan in 2015 was hit with a broken bat at Fenway Park and suffered serious injuries.
Following the Fenway incident, Manfred stated that the sports first and foremost concern remains the safety of our fans.
He also noted that the issue was complicated, since some fans want to sit close to the field.
And when Manfred subsequently made the suggestion to all 30 teams that they add some additional netting, he cited another complication  that each stadium is designed differently.
These complications all have the feel of an excuse.
And in the end, safety issues never go away.
Consider what Nascar has been through.
For years, Nascar officials and racetrack owners have struggled to balance fan safety with the desire of some to sit as close as possible to the track.
In 2013, in what certainly wasnt the first big crash at Daytona International Speedway that injured spectators, more than 30 fans were hurt when debris flew into the stands.
One of the injured fans said he suffered a traumatic brain injury, and this year finally settled a lawsuit with Nascar.
After that 2013 crash, the speedway was renovated.
Its website touted that the front row will be moved up 12 feet to improve trackside views.
Unsaid, likely on purpose: to improve the chance you wont be hit by a flying tire.
No sport wants to acknowledge that its fans arent safe.
What it should acknowledge is its duty to do everything in its power to keep them safe.
And thats where baseball should find itself right now.
On Thursday, Manfred took note of Wednesdays incident in a statement and said that baseball officials would redouble our efforts on this important issue, although how much pressure he will ultimately apply on reluctant teams is unclear.
He did tell reporters on Thursday night in San Diego that he was encouraged by how many conversations his office was now having with teams about adding more netting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Players know putting in more netting is the right thing to do.
Many, including the Yankees C. C. Sabathia, say they wont let their families sit in the stands without netting in front of them.
Theyve called for ballparks to be safer for fans.
If you saw the look on Todd Fraziers face on Wednesday after his line drive hit the little girl, you would know why.
Frazier, who has two children who are younger than 3, crouched.
He rested his head on his bat.
He looked like he was about to cry.
Its time for teams, all the teams, to have those human emotions, too  and act on them.
Its called doing the right thing.
Photo

MIAMI  Giancarlo Stanton hit his 56th homer, the most in the major leagues, and drove in three runs as the Miami Marlins completed a three-game sweep of the Mets with a 9-2 victory on Wednesday.
Stanton connected in the eighth inning for his 30th home run since the All-Star break.
It was his 35th career homer against the Mets, including eight this year.
He kills us.
He literally kills us, Mets Manager Terry Collins said.
You cant hang stuff.
We had him down and away all series long when we made pitches.
When you make mistakes on the plate, he kills you, and he did today.
Stanton also hit a run-scoring single, giving him 120 R.B.I.
on the season.
He made a fine catch, too, against the right-field fence to rob Asdrubal Cabrera.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A. J. Ellis and Miguel Rojas hit back-to-back homers off Mets reliever Erik Goeddel to start the eighth.
With one out, Stanton pulled a breaking pitch over the left-field fence for a two-run homer.
Under the prodding of Commissioner Rob Manfred in 2015, all 30 teams agreed to extend the traditional protective netting behind home plate to at least the inner edge of both dugouts.
About a third of the teams have extended the netting further, to at least the far end of the dugout, and the Mets added netting even beyond that.
However, the Yankees have yet to expand their nets, although they did issue a statement in August that said they were seriously exploring that option.
Photo

If Yankee Stadium had netting in place that did stretch to the far end of the third-base dugout, Fraziers line drive, in all likelihood, would not have reached the stands.
As a result, Wednesdays incident will almost certainly increase pressure on the Yankees to act quickly to make their netting longer.
New York City Councilman Rafael Espinal, who introduced legislation in May to require all New York City baseball stadiums to have protective netting all the way to the foul poles, said after Wednesdays episode that he would hold a public hearing on the issue on Oct. 25.
I commend the Mets for stepping to the plate and leading the country by extending their netting farther than any other team, Espinal said in a statement.
We have been waiting to hear from the Yankees on their plans on how they will move forward and urge them to let the public know as soon as possible where they stand.
According to a Yankee Stadium paramedic, who was not authorized to publicly discuss fan injuries, the girl appeared to have been struck by the ball in the nose and right eye and was bleeding when she was carried by her grandfather to a first aid station behind the stands.
That was a screaming line drive, said Tom Barton, a fan from San Francisco who said he was seated three rows behind the girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I just wanted to cry for this little kid, he added.
There was so much blood.
Steve Beattie, who lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, said he was sitting about eight rows behind the girl and described what he witnessed as brutal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to the stadium scoreboard, the ball left Fraziers bat at 106 miles per hour.
It was terrible, Frazier said afterward.
It was something I wish had never happened.
Very unlucky, man.
I have two kids under 3 years old and I thought of them.
I just hope shes all right.
Frazier and his teammates Chase Headley, Brett Gardner and C. C. Sabathia were in agreement that protective netting needed to be extended at Yankee Stadium, echoing statements that Mets players made after the Citi Field netting was expanded.
Photo

I feel like we need to get the net, said Sabathia, who said he insists his own children sit behind netting whenever they come to a game.
I think every ballpark should have it.
Twins second baseman Brian Dozier said he cried when he saw the girl get hit.
I still have a knot in my stomach, he said.
Every stadium needs to have nets.
I dont care about the damn view of the fan.
Its all about safety.
Back in late July, after the Mets used the All-Star Game break to extend their protective netting about halfway into the outfield, the Yankees were asked for their reaction.
Lonn Trost, the teams chief operating officer and general counsel, responded by saying the Yankees had begun talking to the Yankee Stadium architects about the feasibility of more netting.
But he also noted that he received complaints from some fans who sit in box seats and who would have their views affected by additional netting.
We have fans that are communicating with us that they are upset that were even considering it, Trost said.
Not long after Trost made that comment, a fan at Yankee Stadium was hit in the head by a foul ball off the bat of Aaron Judge.
And, coincidence or not, the Yankees a short while later published a statement on their website saying they were looking closely at a netting extension.
The third incident at Yankee Stadium this season occurred in May, when the barrel of a shattered bat struck a boy sitting about six rows from the field, just past the third-base dugout.
He was taken from the stands holding a towel to his forehead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trost did not respond to request for comments after Wednesdays incident.
The Yankees issued a statement noting the girl had been given first aid at the stadium and then taken to an area hospital.
The team said federal patient privacy laws prevented them from providing more information.
So after Matz missed the first two months of the 2017 season with what the Mets described as elbow inflammation, it seemed like more of the same.
Still, the Mets did not express concern that there was something seriously wrong with his arm.
Matz said team doctors told him the inflammation might have been a side effect from the bone spur surgery the previous fall, and they prescribed rest and platelet-rich plasma injections.
Matz then returned to the rotation in early June and pitched fairly well in his first five starts.
But he then began to pitch less effectively, his earned run average ballooned, and by the second half of August, the Mets medical staff decided to take another look.
This time, on Aug. 21, they concluded that he had ulnar nerve irritation in his elbow.
Two days later, Matz underwent surgery to reposition the nerve  the same operation Jacob deGrom underwent last fall and from which he has made a successful comeback this season.
Matz said in a recent interview that he was glad the teams medical staff had figured out this issue, and took heart in the notion that he, like deGrom, would recover well.
Still, questions linger, particularly in a lost season in which so much has gone wrong for the Mets on the injury front.
Isnt it reasonable to think the ulnar nerve issue was bothering Matz for some time?
If so, could the problem have been detected sooner?
Should Matz have been pitching at all from June to August, if, as he later admitted, he was dealing with discomfort off and on that began in spring training?
Photo

These are, of course, the kinds of questions the Mets have been confronted with as other players, like Noah Syndergaard and Yoenis Cespedes, ended up with their seasons derailed.
And the questions are never easily answered.
Sandy Alderson, the Mets general manager, declined to talk about the way Matzs case unfolded.
But what is known is that only after it was announced that he would undergo surgery for the ulnar nerve problem was it revealed that he had been skipping numerous bullpen sessions between starts this season.
And that he was limiting the use of a secondary pitch, a slider, in hopes of lessening the strain on his troublesome elbow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if that was the case, was he healthy enough to pitch in the first place?
Ultimately, it was my decision, Matz said recently in an interview when asked about the 13 starts he made this season before he was shut down.
I wanted to go out there and pitch because Im so sick of being on the D.L.
And I did everything I could.
Matzs frequent injuries have frustrated some within the Mets organization, something Matz is no doubt aware of.
He tries to keep himself in top physical shape and seems careful about what he puts in his body.
For instance, when his bone spur was discovered early last season, he resisted taking anti-inflammatory medicine.
And this season, Matz said he received only a couple of shots of the anti-inflammatory drug Toradol for his balky elbow.
Some guys take it more, he said.
It definitely helps.
Matz said that when he did pitch this season he felt more discomfort between starts than when on the mound, when adrenaline kicked in.
His average fastball velocity was 93.1 miles per hour, similar to last years average of 93.6.
As Matzs pitching deteriorated this summer, he tried to push through the pain, in part because the diagnosis he received in spring training concluded that there was no structural damage to his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In my mind, he said, Im like: The M.R.I.
is clean, so this is something Im going to have to deal with.
I either have an arthritic elbow or whatever it is, but Im going to have to get past it.
Last season, after the Mets assured him he would not do additional damage to his elbow by pitching through the bone spur, surgery was pushed off until a shoulder injury short-circuited his season.
This time around, with his elbow barking, he took the same approach.
He said his elbow felt better on some days than on others.
He could extend his elbow as far as it could go, but he said it bothered him a little bit to twist his arm properly, which was perhaps affecting the movement and location of his pitches.
Even that admission, during the interview, took a bit of prodding.
Like most players, Matz is competitive and had convinced himself that discomfort was inevitable as a pitcher.
Photo

I definitely respect him for trying, deGrom said.
Youre not going to feel good every time you go out there  its a lot of games and a lot of pitches  even when there is nothing wrong.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We knew all along that it was irritating and he was unable to do his bullpens most of the time, Dan Warthen, the Mets pitching coach, said.
He wanted to pitch through it.
Doctors kept saying that physically it was O.K.
and there was nothing wrong in there; it was just an irritation.
We werent going to shut him down unless he wanted to.
Matz, meanwhile, denied that he received any pressure from the Mets to stay on the mound this season.
I didnt feel any pressure from the team, he said.
Did I feel pressure from myself?
I want to be out there competing and pitching.
But after he allowed six earned runs over three and a third innings against the Yankees on Aug. 17, Matz said that he decided it was time to see a doctor again.
He had developed a hunch that he might be dealing with the same problem  the ulnar nerve  that had afflicted deGrom and Mets reliever Erik Goeddel.
In this instance, Matz received a computed tomography examination that involved numbing the nerve with an anesthetic.
Once that happened, he said, the pain was almost instantly gone.
One reason Matz thinks his ulnar nerve issue was not detected sooner, assuming it could have been, was that he was not experiencing telltale symptoms.
The doctor said the symptoms I was getting were nontypical for nerve problems, Matz said.
I had no tingling or numbness.
In deGroms case, his ulnar nerve irritation started as tingling in his fingers before it became sharp pain.
DeGroms performance tailed off near the end of his 2016 season, just before he had the surgery.
Now the Mets can only hope Matz recovers as well from this surgery as deGrom did, because their pitching staff, which has one of the worst earned run averages in baseball, is in serious need of rehabilitation.
Syndergaard has yet to return from his early-season latissimus tear.
Matt Harveys return from his latest injury setback has been marked by ugly outings that have been demoralizing for both him and the team.
Zack Wheeler last pitched in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And then there is Matz, with his repositioned ulnar nerve.
Maybe he can help in 2018, after he first files away 2017 as a season to forget.
This edition of the Twins, with its young and unheralded roster, has exceeded the expectations of its own front office, which dealt away several veterans in late July, to remain in playoff contention.
But they have hardly looked the part in two games here, being limited to one run in five and two-thirds innings on Monday by Jamie Garcia  whom the Twins traded to the Yankees earlier this summer  and then seeing their deficiencies repeatedly exposed on Tuesday in a game that was delayed by an hour because of rain.
A wild pitch by Minnesota reliever Alan Busenitz in the fourth inning led to a run, and first baseman Joe Mauer misplayed a two-out grounder in the fifth that allowed another.
The Yankees ran repeatedly on right fielder Max Kepler, and three Yankees who scored reached base via a walk or getting hit by a pitch.
When the Twins had an early chance to assert themselves, loading the bases in the first inning with none out against Sabathia with two bunt singles and a base hit, they wilted.
Eduardo Escobar grounded into a double play, scoring one run, but the Twins got no more after Byron Buxton tapped one back to Sabathia.
Kepler provided Minnesotas only other run with a third-inning homer into the right-field seats that put the Twins ahead by 2-1.
The Yankees, who had a steady parade of base runners, were hardly opportunistic  they left 14 runners on base  but on this night they did not need to be.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They jumped in front for good in the fourth.
Jacoby Ellsbury sliced a double into the left-field corner and, after Jose Berrios struck out Todd Frazier, he walked Greg Bird on a nine-pitch at-bat.
Gardner followed with a single, scoring Ellsbury to tie the score and chase Berrios.
Busenitz then bounced a pitch to Aaron Judge, allowing both runners to move up, which put Bird in position to score  which he did on Judges fly ball to right.
It gave the Yankees a 3-2 lead, which Sabathia, Chad Green, David Robertson and Aroldis Chapman carried to the finish line.
A sign of the Yankees conflicting priorities came before the game, when Manager Joe Girardi reversed course and announced that his ace, Luis Severino, would take his regular turn in the rotation on Wednesday in the series finale against the Twins instead of pitching Friday at Toronto, which Girardi had initially decided to do earlier in the week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That gives the Yankees the option of using Severino on the final day of the regular season  if they have a chance of finishing ahead of the Red Sox.
That possibility grew a little more dim on Tuesday when the Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles, 1-0, in 11 innings.
It was the Red Soxs third extra-innings victory in the last five days.
While the Yankees have won five of their last six games, they have gained no ground on the Red Sox, who they do not play again in the regular season.
I think everybody knows the situation, Green said.
We obviously know theyre going to have to lose games and were going to have win, but we can only control what we do.
When the Red Sox won in extra innings on Friday and on Monday, the Yankees returned to the clubhouse TVs to watch after they had won their game.
With their game running late on Tuesday because of the rain delay, the Yankees kept an eye on the scoreboard.
It stinks.
Its terrible, said Frazier after pulling in vain for the Orioles.
You see it  oh, God almighty, find a way to win.
But thats what happens when you need help.
Sometimes you dont get it.
Its tough to watch.
You cant really rely on hope sometimes.
