Story highlights More than 95% of wireless cell towers out of service

Many Caribbean residents are without power, water and other resources

(CNN) Days after Hurricane Maria pounded the island of Puerto Rico, killing at least 10 people, authorities are starting to see firsthand the scope of devastation that left the US territory off the grid.
Without power and communications in much of the island, millions of people, including city leaders and first responders, have been cut off from the world since Maria hit Wednesday.
Authorities flew over the island Saturday, and were stunned by what they saw.
No cellphones, water or power.
Roads completely washed away and others blocked by debris, isolating residents.
"It was devastating to see all that kind of debris in all areas, in all towns of the island," Jenniffer Gonzlez, the island's non-voting representative in Congress told CNN.
"We never expected to have a lot of debris in so many areas.
A lot of roads are closed, older ones are just gone," she added.
Read More
Key Largo to Key West, Florida (CNN) It takes a special breed of cat to settle in the Florida Keys.
The slivers of land atop an ancient coral reef hold a mixture of hedonism and high water, luring anglers and divers, bikers and burnouts, pirates and professionals down US 1 to forget about life for a weekend ... or forever.
Depending on your point of view, it is a road to paradise or a highway to hell.
With flippers and fishing poles poking out of a top-down rental, I'd chased sunsets over the 42 bridges of the Overseas Highway a half dozen times over the years but had never seen the darker side of the tropical ocean's split personality.
Key West resident Ernest Hemingway described it as masculine and feminine.
"La Mar" can give you an afternoon in crystal clear heaven but "El Mar" can flood your house and sink your boat.
Irma was El Mar on steroids.
The storm laid bare those two sides of nature, and the human nature of those who live in one of the most vulnerable neighborhoods in America.
Key West in one photo.
#irma A post shared by Bill Weir (@billweircnn) on Sep 8, 2017 at 1:51pm PDT

As the storm pounded Cuba, the independent, defiant streak of the Conch Republic was on display.
On Duval Street in Key West, residents scoffed at the mandatory evacuation orders and shared personal lists of storms survived and every strand of stick-it-out logic from "I don't want to run out of gas in the Everglades" to "I have to be here to protect my boat."
(CNN) Millions of Puerto Rico residents continue to reel from Hurricane Maria as the National Weather Service says the storm could bring "direct impacts" to the US East Coast in the coming days.
At least 10 people on the island have been confirmed killed by the storm, according to Gov.
Ricardo Rossell's office.
Much of the US commonwealth is without power and many residents are without running water.
Officials have evacuated towns near the Guajataca River on the northwest part of the island, due to fears a dam could collapse

The National Hurricane Center warns the storm is marching toward the US East Coast.
"It becoming increasingly likely that some direct impacts will occur along portions of the coast next week," the National Hurricane Center said in an advisory on Saturday .
"Interests in the Bahamas and along the Carolina and Mid-Atlantic coasts should monitor the progress of Maria."
Forecasters expect "dangerous surf and rip currents" along southeastern US beaches over the next several days.
"Swells from Maria are increasing along the coast of the southeastern United States and are expected to reach the mid-Atlantic coast tonight and on Sunday .
These swells will likely cause dangerous surf and rip currents at the beach through much of next week," the hurricane center said.
A resident of the La Perla neighborhood in San Juan, Puerto Rico, surveys the damage.
The Category 3 storm is carrying maximum sustained winds of 115 mph and is 245 miles east of Eleuthera Island in the Bahamas.
It is moving at 8 miles (13 kilometers) per hour.
"Maria will move away from the Bahamas into the open waters of the western Atlantic today," the center said.
The Caribbean gets socked

The storm hit Dominica, Puerto Rico, the Dominican Republic, the US Virgin Islands and the Turks and Caicos, a British overseas territory.
Residents of Roseau, capital of Dominica, walk down a street covered in debris on September 22, four days after Hurricane Maria battered the Caribbean.
It knocked out power in the US commonwealth of more than 3 million people, Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said.
And it could be months before the electricity returns.
"This is going to be a long road," Rossell said Saturday.
At least 15 people are confirmed dead on Dominica, and dozens more remain missing.
One person died in the US Virgin Islands, probably from drowning, authorities said.
At least six people were killed in Puerto Rico, said Hctor M. Pesquera, the island's public safety director.
US President Donald Trump has pledged federal help for Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.
On Saturday evening, the Puerto Rico Federal Affairs Administration confirmed that 4,000 members of the the U.S. Army Reserves have been deployed in Puerto Rico to help with Hurricane Maria recovery.
Dam weakening in Puerto Rico

On Friday afternoon, people in the northwest part of Puerto Rico were urged to evacuate because of a possible dam breach on the Guajataca River, the National Weather Service said on Twitter

Rossell told CNN affiliate WAPA radio on Saturday that the Guajataca Dam is still holding, but he is still pleading for residents to evacuate the area.
He said the mandatory curfew remains in effect until further notice, but it will now be from 7 p.m. until 5 a.m.

At his Saturday press conference, the governor said Guajataca was without communications, meaning authorities had to physically go to residents to warn them of the potential dam breach.
"We don't know how much longer it will hold," he said.
"The structure has been significantly compromised."
The governor said the island has a 20-day supply of gasoline and diesel and will install "water oasis" stations around the island.
Many roads are impassable and gas stations were destroyed, he said.
Puerto Ricans living without water, communication

As Maria makes its way north, residents of Puerto Rico are beginning to assess the full extent of the storm's destruction.
Locals in the town of Maunabo, on the southeast coast of the island, could be seen lining up at a freshwater spring near the base of a mountain to fill jugs, tanks and barrels.
The spring is the only source of water in the municipality, and people wait for hours each day to get the water they need to refill toilets, take showers and wash clothes.
"Every house comes here and every day it's busy from morning to night," said Hector Labron, a resident of Maunabo.
"There's no water in town."
Residents also have limited access to cell signal, causing panic among families at home and abroad who have been unable to contact their loved ones.
East of Maunabo, in Humacao, people stop their cars along the side of the road near a cell tower on a hill.
It's the only access to cellphone service for miles.
"We're trying to communicate to our families in the US," Jose Flores, who traveled 17 miles to reach the tower, told CNN.
"I just got connected to my daughter in Florida, and she will let the rest of the family know I'm fine."
Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Carmelo Mota, a builder, searches for tools in his destroyed home in Charlotte Amalie, US Virgin Islands, on Monday, September 18.
Hurricane Irma devastated the US territory and other Caribbean islands in the region, leaving them exposed to new storms brewing in the Atlantic.
Hide Caption 1 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An aerial photo shows the devastation in Road Town, the capital of Tortola, the largest and most populated of the British Virgin Islands, on Wednesday, September 13.
Hide Caption 2 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson talks to a resident of Anguilla during a visit on September 13.
Hide Caption 3 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People collect food that was delivered by emergency workers in the Sandy Ground area of Marigot, St. Martin, on Tuesday, September 12.
Hide Caption 4 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Buildings are destroyed in St. Martin on September 12.
Hide Caption 5 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean French President Emmanuel Macron shakes hands with St. Martin residents during a visit to the island on September 12.
Hide Caption 6 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean French soldiers patrol St. Martin on September 12.
Hide Caption 7 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A person works to clean up a street September 12 after Hurricane Irma flooded parts of Havana, Cuba.
Hide Caption 8 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man makes repairs in Havana on September 12.
Hide Caption 9 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean This Marigot church was among the buildings destroyed in the storm.
Hide Caption 10 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Cubans affected by Hurricane Irma line up to collect drinking water in Isabela de Sagua, Cuba, on Monday, September 11.
Hide Caption 11 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Dutch King Willem-Alexander, front right, tours damage in St. Maarten on September 11.
Hide Caption 12 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A palm tree sticks out of a pool on the French side of St. Martin on September 11.
Hide Caption 13 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman stands next to her water-logged belongings that had been laid out to dry in front of her home in Isabela de Sagua on September 11.
Hide Caption 14 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People line up for supplies in St. Martin on September 11.
Hide Caption 15 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean The skeleton of a boat drifts in St. Martin's Simpson Bay on September 11.
Hide Caption 16 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People salvage material from the remains of a house in Isabela de Sagua on September 11.
Hide Caption 17 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Members of the British Army provide support on Tortola, one of the British Virgin Islands.
Hide Caption 18 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman carries a dog at an airport checkpoint in St. Martin on September 11.
Hide Caption 19 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People wade through a flooded street as a wave crashes in Havana on Sunday, September 10.
Hide Caption 20 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Two men search through the rubble of their St. Martin restaurant on September 10.
Hide Caption 21 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People make their way through debris in the Cojimar neighborhood of Havana on September 10.
Hide Caption 22 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People board a plane leaving St. Martin on September 10.
Hide Caption 23 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man wades through a flooded street in Havana on September 10.
Hide Caption 24 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An overview of Havana shows flooded streets on Saturday, September 9.
Hide Caption 25 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman surveys flooding in Havana on September 9.
Hide Caption 26 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A boat rests in a cemetery after Irma tore through Marigot, St. Martin.
Hide Caption 27 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Residents return home after Irma passed through Caibarien, Cuba, on September 9.
Hide Caption 28 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks in Caibarien on September 9.
Hide Caption 29 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man carries a child through a flooded street in Fort-Liberte, Haiti, on Friday, September 8.
Hide Caption 30 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks on a St. Martin street covered in debris on September 8.
Hide Caption 31 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A damaged home is tilted onto its side on the Puerto Rican island of Culebra on Thursday, September 7.
Hide Caption 32 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A home is surrounded by debris in Nagua, Dominican Republic, on September 7.
Hide Caption 33 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Irma damage is seen in St. Martin's Orient Bay on September 7.
Hide Caption 34 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Employees from an electrical company work to clear a fallen tree in Sanchez, Dominican Republic.
Hide Caption 35 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A woman makes her way through debris in Fajardo, Puerto Rico, on September 7.
Hide Caption 36 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean In this image made from video, damaged houses are seen in St. Thomas on September 7.
Hide Caption 37 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean The storm left widespread destruction on the island of Barbuda on September 7.
Hide Caption 38 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A flattened home is seen in Nagua, Dominican Republic, on September 7.
Hide Caption 39 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Nagua residents ride through an area affected by the storm on September 7.
Hide Caption 40 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Trash and debris is washed ashore in Cap-Haitien, Haiti, on September 7.
Hide Caption 41 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People walk through damage in Marigot, St. Martin, on September 7.
Hide Caption 42 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean People survey damage in Marigot on September 7.
Hide Caption 43 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Bluebeard's Castle, a resort in St. Thomas, was hit hard by Irma.
St. Thomas resident David Velez sent this photo to CNN on September 7.
Hide Caption 44 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Irma ruined these vehicles in St. Thomas.
Hide Caption 45 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Waves smash into St. Martin on Wednesday, September 6.
Hide Caption 46 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man looks at a vehicle turned upside down in the British territory of Anguilla.
Hide Caption 47 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean An aerial view of St. Martin on September 6.
Hide Caption 48 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Damaged cars are seen on a St. Martin beach on September 6.
Hide Caption 49 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A boat is washed onto shore in St. Martin.
Hide Caption 50 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Cars are piled up in Marigot on September 6.
Hide Caption 51 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A man walks past damaged buildings in St. Martin on September 6.
Hide Caption 52 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean A car is flipped onto its side in Marigot.
Hide Caption 53 of 55

Photos: Hurricane Irma tears through Caribbean Broken palm trees are scattered on a Marigot beach on September 6.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
New York (CNN) President Donald Trump drew the ire of professional athletes for comments he made at a rally in Alabama on Friday night and on Twitter on Saturday morning.
Trump first took aim at the NFL, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the national anthem.
The President said owners should respond to players by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
He doubled down on the comments on Saturday afternoon.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Last year, Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
(CNN) Legendary musician Stevie Wonder took both knees at a New York music festival, seemingly showing solidarity with NFL players criticized by President Donald Trump hours earlier.
"Tonight, I'm taking a knee for America; but not just one knee, I'm taking both knees," he said on stage Saturday before his performance at the Global Citizens Festival.
"Both knees in prayer for our planet, our future, our leaders of the world and our globe.
Amen .. .
During the event, Wonder also spoke about interrupting hate, bigotry and condemning sexism.
Trump's comments

His remarks appeared to refer to Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- who last year drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," Kaepernick said last year.
Trump is responding a year later, saying if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop."
Trump said NFL owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a b***h off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
Addressing the crowd before he performed, Wonder urged attendees to denounce bigotry and racism.
"Our global brothers and sisters, I didn't come here to preach, but I'm telling you, our spirit must be in the right place.
All the time -- not just now, but tomorrow and whenever you, whenever you, whenever you need to interrupt hate, stand down bigotry, condemn sexism and find love for all of our global brothers and sisters every day," Wonder said.
He then took a knee with his son, Kwame Morris.
Other entertainers, athletes respond

Several sports stars have released statements criticizing Trump, including LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum" for his tweet uninviting Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry from visiting the White House.
Story highlights Tom Price says he took 11 trips, not 24 as has been reported

He says his office will also review practice of taking charter flights

(CNN) Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price will not use private jets for government business while the practice is under investigation, he told Fox News on Saturday.
Price defended the taxpayer-funded trips, saying they were subject to approval by the department's lawyers.
"We've heard the criticism.
We've heard the concerns, and we take that very seriously and have taken it to heart," Price said.
Politico first reported Price's use of charter jets for official business earlier this week, and followed that article with a story Thursday that said the secretary has traveled on charter flights at least 24 times since May, citing people familiar with his travel plans and a review of HHS documents.
Charter plane operators estimated 24 flights would have cost $300,000, Politico reported .
Commercial trips would have cost thousands of dollars less.
Read More
(CNN) Tension is rising between congressional investigators probing Russia meddling and the Trump administration, as the White House and Justice Department withhold a number of records sought by Capitol Hill at a critical time in the investigations.
Operating on parallel tracks from special counsel Robert Mueller, the three congressional committees probing Russia's election meddling have asked for scores of documents related to everything from Jared Kushner's security clearance to records surrounding President Donald Trump's discussions with James Comey before he was fired as FBI director.
At the same time, the GOP leader of the House intelligence committee is threatening to hold a public hearing this week over documents the Justice Department has so far failed to turn over to Capitol Hill regarding the FBI's ties to a British operative who compiled a dossier of allegations on Trump's connections with Russia.
And the GOP-led Senate judiciary committee is in a growing standoff with the Justice Department's deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, over several issues, including the department's decision to prevent two senior FBI officials from sitting down for transcribed interviews on Capitol Hill to provide eyewitness accounts of the Comey firing.
While the Trump campaign has provided lawmakers with thousands of pages of documents thus far, there are numerous requests where the White House, FBI and Justice Department have missed the committees' deadlines, prompting some committee members to threaten to issue subpoenas to the West Wing and Justice Department.
Rep. Adam Schiff, the ranking Democrat on the House intelligence committee, told CNN on Saturday that the White House has "refused" since June to comply with the panel's bipartisan request for documents over Trump's conversations with Comey -- "despite repeated attempts" to obtain the information.
"The White House's refusal to answer Congress in full and truthfully raises serious questions about the White House's intent, including the potential that it is misleading Congress," Schiff said in an email.
"The White House must fully comply immediately; if it does not, the Committee should, on a bipartisan basis, subpoena the records."
A spokeswoman for Republican Rep. Mike Conaway, who is leading the House intelligence committee Russia investigation, did not respond to a request for comment.
The White House did not comment when asked about its standoff with Congress over the Russia documents.
Trump and White House officials have denied there was any collusion with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign, with the President calling the inquiries a "witch hunt."
It's not unusual for the executive branch to ignore requests from Capitol Hill over records requests -- something that far predates the Trump administration.
But the resistance now to providing key documents could limit the key congressional committees' abilities to learn the extent of contacts between Russia and the Trump campaign -- as well as whether Trump acted improperly by seeking to fire Comey to quash an FBI probe into Russian election meddling.
Complicating matters further is Mueller's probe, which has ramped up in aggressiveness and has broadened to examine Trump's White House.
Mueller has asked for an array of documents from the White House, including documents and emails relating to the dismissals of former national security adviser Michael Flynn and Comey, as well as Trump's Oval Office meeting with senior Russian officials in which he said Comey's firing eased pressure on the White House, sources have told CNN.
Of particular concern to Capitol Hill are comments made by White House special counsel Ty Cobb, who was overheard in a lunch conversation by a New York Times reporter suggesting he wouldn't cooperate with Capitol Hill.
"If we give it to Mueller, there is no reason for it to ever get to the Hill," Cobb was reported as saying.
A White House official said Cobb has no involvement with congressional inquiries, and that the decision on whether to comply with Hill requests is one left to the White House counsel's office, run by Don McGahn.
Earlier this year, well before Mueller was tapped as special counsel, White House lawyers instructed aides to preserve documents and other materials that could be related to Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
There are several unfilled requests for documents from the White House already, and the list is likely to grow as the congressional probes heat up this fall.
The House intelligence committee request stems from Trump's suggestion earlier this year there were tapes of his conversations with Comey.
The panel asked McGahn for any "recordings or memoranda" related to their conversations, and the White House did respond with a letter stating there were no tapes that existed, citing a Trump tweet.
But that didn't satisfy the House Russia investigators.
Conaway and Schiff issued a June 29 statement that their initial request had only been partially met, and they asked again for the White House "to appropriately and fully comply" with the request, which is still outstanding.
Rep. Devin Nunes, who stepped aside from leading the committee's Russia probe over concerns about his own handling of classified information, is running a parallel investigation into alleged "unmasking" of Trump officials by the Obama administration.
Earlier this month, Nunes pushed back a deadline for the FBI and Justice Department to produce documents about the FBI's relationship with the former British agent Christopher Steele, who produced a dossier of allegations -- some details of which have been substantiated, but others have not -- about Trump ties to Russia.
He warned he would haul Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray before the committee if his requests were not met.
But the second deadline set for this past Friday came and went.
The panel has now scheduled a Thursday hearing for "document production" related to the subpoena, which could lead to a public showdown between the California Republican and the DOJ and FBI.
A Nunes spokesman declined to comment.
A Justice Department spokesperson said: "Discussions with the committee are ongoing, and we have asked that the subpoenas that had compliance dates for (Friday) continue to be on hold during that process."
The scrutiny on the Justice Department also extends to the Senate side.
The Justice Department has not responded to some key requests from the Senate Judiciary Committee, including a June request by Sens.
Chuck Grassley, the committee chairman, and Sen. Lindsey Graham, to detail whether the US government sought to spy on any Trump associates during the last election season.
In particular, what has irked Grassley and the committee's top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, is the Justice Department's decision not to allow two senior FBI officials, James Rybicki and Carl Ghattas, to interview with the panel about the Comey firing.
The department has said it's up to Mueller's team to decide whether to allow them to come forward, something it has not done so far.
Discussions with Rosenstein are supposed to continue this week, sources said.
"We've got subpoenas at the Senate counsel office," Grassley told CNN last week, referring to the Senate office that would draft the subpoenas.
"When we get done there, I'm gonna have to consult with Sen.
Feinstein."
Moreover, the White House has ignored a July deadline to respond to a series of questions related to Kushner, the President's son-in-law, about his application forms to get his security clearance -- something that had to be repeatedly amended because of his failure to list meetings with foreign officials, including Russians.
Among the questions the judiciary committee leaders have asked: Whether any White House official intervened during the background check process on Kushner's behalf and whether he has any "continuing contact" with a foreign national.
Kushner's attorneys have responded to the committee, citing in large measure his public statement insisting his mistakes were innocent and his meetings with Russians were innocuous.
But the White House has not answered the questions raised by GOP and Democratic leaders of the committee, according to committee officials.
The Kushner security clearance form also has come under sharp scrutiny from Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the House oversight committee.
Along with the other Democrats on the panel, Cummings requested a response by July 5 about omissions on Kushner's security clearance and whether he should continue to access classified information.
They have yet to receive a response, according to Cummings' office.
Cummings has pushed for a range of documents, including on Flynn and Comey, but has not received responses from the White House on those matters either.
Lacking support from the GOP chairman of the committee, Trey Gowdy, who wants to pursue the issues through the House intelligence committee, Cummings is unable to issue subpoenas for such records.
Yet the previous chairman of the House Oversight committee, then Rep. Jason Chaffetz, did sign onto a March request asking for documents related to the Flynn vetting process.
But the White House sent an April letter suggesting that such information would not be forthcoming, and Republicans on the panel did not pursue the matter after that.
Senate Intelligence committee officials refused to say if they've made any requests for documents from the White House that are still outstanding.
But committee Chairman Richard Burr and ranking Democrat Mark Warner said in May they would request a briefing from the White House on what was said in the meeting that month between Trump, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and then-Russian Ambassador to the US Sergey Kislyak

Warner also told CNN in July that the committee had requested more records from Kushner, as well as Donald Trump Jr., following the revelation of their June 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer.
A spokeswoman for Burr did not respond to a request for comment, and a Warner spokeswoman declined to comment.
Lawmakers return to Washington on Monday with the GOP just one more "no" vote away from having their latest effort to overhaul the Affordable Care Act scuttled.
So far, two Republicans -- Sens.
John McCain of Arizona and Rand Paul of Kentucky -- have publicly come out against the latest bill to overhaul Obamacare.
That number could grow as soon as Monday when Maine Republican Sen. Susan Collins -- who said on CNN Sunday that she couldn't envision a scenario in which she would support the bill - - expects a partial score from the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.
Leaders are also closely watching Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski , who has been mulling over her decision at home over the weekend.
On Sunday evening, the GOP released its latest version of the health care bill , which aimed to convince members who are still undecided to support the bill.
The changes aim to increase funding for states like Alaska, but there's no proof that the bill will bring the undecided senators onboard now.
In one new provision particularly beneficial to Alaska, the state would receive a 25% boost in federal matching funds for Medicaid due to its defined high-level of poverty.
But despite the new version, there are still plenty of obstacles ahead.
Texas Sen. Ted Cruz made headlines on Sunday when he said at the Texas Tribune Festival that the legislation as written did not currently have his support, though his answer did not definitively rule out backing the bill and added that he wants "to be a yes."
The next 24 hours are critical for the future of Graham-Cassidy, the latest Republican plan to overhaul Obamacare from South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham and Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy.
On Monday, the GOP has scheduled a hearing on their bill in the Senate's Finance Committee and leadership will have to make a decision soon about whether or not the bill will come to the Senate floor for a vote even though the latest version of the bill wasn't unveiled until Sunday.
A partisan health care bill must be voted on by the end of the week, when the vehicle that Republicans are using to move their plan is expected to expire.
Over the weekend, the administration and the bill's sponsors continued to lobby on-the-fence members, with aides telling CNN that the effort wouldn't end until Republicans saw that third and final "no."
"Whatever sports metaphor you want to use about how it would take a miracle, it's that," a source acknowledged, noting that even a "Hail Mary" pass might be too generous to describe the odds at the moment.
The odds are stacked against the bill with outside groups also coming out in droves to oppose it.
A bipartisan group of governors sent a letter to congressional leaders last week warning that Graham-Cassidy would gravely hurt patients in their states.
A long list of industry groups and leaders, including those representing insurance companies and health professionals, have also come out against the proposal.
Still, the stakes are incredibly high for members and Republican leaders who have tried to forge ahead with the bill.
Gutting Obamacare was the GOP's promise for seven years, and facing a second defeat would only expose the party to more criticism from its donors and base.
The party is now split between supporting a bill that appears unpopular with stakeholders and hasn't had even two full weeks to be vetted or moving ahead in an effort to pass anything it can.
Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley of Iowa made headlines last week when he openly acknowledged that fulfilling the GOP's years-long campaign promise was just as important as the policy ramifications of the bill.
"You know, I could maybe give you 10 reasons why this bill shouldn't be considered," the Iowa Republican said according to a report from The Des Moines Register .
"But Republicans campaigned on this so often that you have a responsibility to carry out what you said in the campaign.
That's pretty much as much of a reason as the substance of the bill."
Former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, who has been working with Cassidy and Graham on the legislation, told CNN that not taking action now will leave Republicans stuck with the blame on any future problems that arise in the health care system.
"It's either fix it and do it the right way or own the debacle that's coming," Santorum, a Republican, said.
"This may be Obamacare but they're going to blame Trump if it doesn't work."
The fact that the Senate vote in July failed by just one -- McCain's third "no" vote -- has also made it difficult for some Republicans to move on.
Another political reality at play: Republicans, including President Donald Trump and his top aides, are desperate for a legislative victory.
Trump and his top advisers have spent much of this year moving from one controversy to the next, all as the investigation into the Trump campaign's possible collusion with Russia has loomed over the White House.
Getting anything done on repealing Obamacare would mark an important win in a year that has lacked good news for the President.
"For the White House, the desire to have a significant legislative accomplishment remains a big and important goal," said Lanhee Chen, former chief policy adviser to Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney.
"And the fact that they were so close suggests that they could get across the finish line, so the reality and possibility of success is there."
Birmingham, Alabama (CNN) Sen. Luther Strange and Roy Moore are into the final hours of a hard-fought intra-party campaign that is testing President Donald Trump's influence with Republican voters and could set the stage for a series of GOP Senate primaries next year.
The final day of campaigning here features Vice President Mike Pence as Strange's most visible advocate and Steve Bannon, the recently ousted former White House chief strategist, stumping for Moore.
Pence will visit NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, and then head to Birmingham, Alabama's largest city, for a nighttime rally to close Strange's campaign.
Bannon, meanwhile, heads to Fairhope -- just outside Mobile, on the Gulf of Mexico -- to join "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson at a Monday night "faith and family rally" with Moore.
Bannon will also appear on Fox News host Sean Hannity's show from the rally, giving Moore's side one final audience with Hannity's right-wing audience.
The last-minute campaigning comes amid deep fears among Republicans in Washington about what a Moore win could mean for the party in 2018's midterm elections.
Strange has been propped up by more than $9 million in spending from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC aligned with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Moore, meanwhile, has cast the campaign as an opportunity to reject McConnell -- a much less popular figure among Alabama Republicans than Trump.
Trump's visit to Alabama on Friday night was designed to lend his popularity to Strange, who Trump told a crowd of thousands has been a loyal ally in the fight to repeal former President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act.
But the President acknowledged the potential that Moore could win -- and what such a victory would mean for Trump.
"If Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," Trump told the crowd.
"They're going say, 'Donald Trump, the President of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.'"
Alabama's matchup is unusual in that many of Trump's core supporters also back Moore, the 70-year-old former state Supreme Court justice who was ousted from that job twice -- first in 2003 for refusing to remove a monument of the Ten Commandments at a state court building, then again recently for refusing to abide by the US Supreme Court's ruling legalizing same-sex marriage nationwide.
Moore's campaign even touted Trump's comment from his Friday night rally in Huntsville that he would "fight like hell" for Moore if he defeats Strange.
Either Strange or Moore would be favored against the Democratic nominee, Doug Jones, in the December special election for the seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and which Strange has held since being appointed in February.
"If (Strange) loses, I think the reality is that the Republicans will still hold that seat," White House legislative director Marc Short said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press."
Still, a Moore win could be damaging for Republicans nationally.
He is well-known for a history of bombastic statements about race sexual orientation and more -- such as Thursday night, when he told a debate audience that "abortion, sodomy, sexual perversion sweep our land."
Democrats could use Moore's remarks as a fundraising tool and to put Republicans on the spot.
Republicans are closely watching Alabama for signs of what could happen in other races featuring anti-establishment challengers next year.
In Nevada, Republican Sen. Dean Heller already faces a primary fight against Danny Tarkanian.
In Arizona, Sen. Jeff Flake faces conservative Kelli Ward.
Both, like Moore, have Bannon's support.
And across the board, Republican candidates recruited to take on Democratic incumbents in states won in 2016 face tough battles against farther-right foes.
OKEECHOBEE COUNTY, Fla. - An extensive roundup saved hundreds of cows and their calves Friday morning in Okeechobee County.
"It means so much to us that so many people cared enough to come help," said Austin Alderman, of Alderman-Deloney Ranch.
16 cowboys and cowgirls on horseback herded the cows for miles through the flooded Alderman-Deloney Ranch, owned by Jim Alderman, a former judge for the Florida Supreme Court.
"The judge was in pretty bad trouble.
He stood to lose a lot of his cattle if he didn't take them somewhere," said Al Scott, better known as Bub, who owns Triple S Ranch, where the cows will now stay.
Once the cows were out of the flooding, they shut down several miles of Orange Avenue in Okeechobee County as nearly 20 cowboys and cowgirls continued to guide them on the street toward Triple S Ranch.
"It was a success," said Matt Pearce, first vice president of the Florida Cattleman Association.
"We didnt lose anything.
We didnt hurt anybody and we got them on dry ground."
The cows had been living on shrinking strips of dry land the past few days due to extensive flooding on Alderman-Deloney Ranch, which worsened when a dike surrounding the property broke.
If the cattle stay where they are, eventually theyll die, said Jim Alderman.
Chopper 5 flew over dead cows as well as trapped cows and calves Thursday.
Austin Alderman said at least two cows and three calves have died.
"To lose them in such a senseless manner, its bothersome," he said.
Jim Alderman said the dike around his ranch, which helps deflect water because the land to the west is 10 feet higher, broke a few days ago following heavy rainfall from Hurricane Irma.
He said the last time the dike broke was in 2004, but there was even more water pouring into his ranch this time.
It just was an extraordinary thing that we had over 20 inches of rain and all that water coming down and pressure against the dike caused it to break, he said.
He said the owner of Triple S Ranch a few miles down the road offered to host the cows until his ranch dries out.
He actually contacted me and volunteered which was very neighborly, Jim Alderman said.
"We help each other out," Bub said.
"He wouldve done the same for us."
People began rounding up the cows Thursday using airboats.
Trailers picked up the calves and brought them to the dry ranch Friday morning.
The calves and their mothers now have to find each other in their temporary home.
"Theyll find these babies," Pearce said.
"The best thing we can do is leave them alone and come back and check on them."
It's currently birthing season for the cows.
"Some of them have had a really rough couple of days of their lives but hopefully things are a little easier from here on out," Austin Alderman said.
One cow gave birth to a calf shortly after arriving at Triple S Ranch.
Jim and Austin Alderman said they're thankful for the communitys help.
"It means so much to us that so many people cared enough to come help," Austin Alderman said.
"Theyre all good people.
People that really touched our hearts and it means a lot that they helped when we needed it the most."
He estimates the cows will stay at Triple S Ranch for months, while their home dries out and the vegetation grows back.
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y. (WKBW) - Niagara Falls Police have condemned a vacant home on 20th Street after the Niagara County SPCA found two dead dogs that had been locked inside metal crates.
Investigators say it appears the dogs were dead for 45 to 50 days.
Camillya Joseph, 28, is charged with two felony counts of aggravated animal cruelty.
Detectives say Joseph left a brown female hound dog mix and a black male hound dog mix inside a locked metal crate at 547 20th Street.
The dogs were left to starve to death, according to police.
Neighbors say they didn't smell or hear anything coming from the house.
Several of them did notice flies in the window seal.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

PIATT TOWNSHIP -- A firefighter was sent to the hospital after flames engulfed a residence in Lycoming County.
The double townhome on Diesel Road near Jersey Shore caught fire just before 4 p.m. on Thursday.
Not long after, the roof collapsed.
According to the fire chief at the scene, only half of the residence was occupied.
One firefighter was sent to the hospital and another was treated on scene for what crews believe were heat-related issues after that fire in Lycoming County.
A heartwarming story out of Southern Cancer Center at Providence Hospital.
A local mother who was diagnosed with cancer while she was pregnant defied all the odds and now has a healthy baby girl.
Alexandria Dale Zine gave birth to Angel Pearl in May.
The 27-year-old mother found out she had breast cancer when she was six weeks pregnant.
Her journey wasn't easy, but its nothing short of amazing.
"I was nervous, terrified... so many questions that bombarded me at once, said Alexandria.
"I began to pray, saying Lord, I need an angel.
I need you to send somebody with me to be here with me.
Her prayers were answered in the form of a doctor named Nicole Angel.
"I'm glad we had a great outcome, but it was very stressful for everybody involved, said Dr. Angel.
You never know if the baby in utero is getting any side effects from the chemotherapy or not until they are born.
Doctor angel walked Alexandria every step of the way, all while keeping baby Angel safe.
Alexandria had to endure a partial mastectomy and chemotherapy while pregnant.
"Anytime I had to come to the hospital, even on her off days, she was there for me the whole time, said Alexandria.
"She was just a trooper and she was an inspiration to all the ladies and patients back there in chemo, said Dr. Angel.
When they saw that the 27-year-old who was pregnant could get chemotherapy, then they felt like they should get chemotherapy and probably not complain too much."
There were days when Alexandria felt like giving up, but she knew a mother has to be strong.
"I have to get better.
I have to get through this.
That was mostly my motivation, having angel on the inside pushed me more.
It pushed me not to give up.
It made me eat when I didn't feel like eating because I knew I had to feed her, said Alexandria.
Through it all, Angel is here a happy and healthy baby.
She is named after the doctor who saved both of their lives.
"I don't have children, so it kind of filled a gap for me, said Dr. Angel.
They will always be connected to me and I will always be looking out for them.
It's an honor that you can't even describe."
Shortly after Alexandria gave birth to Angel, she went through a double mastectomy.
We're happy to report this mother is cancer free!
"To see her healthy, doing good, working momma it makes it all worth it every day, said Alexandria.
I look at her and I'm just grateful.
I thank God for her.
All content  2017, WALA; Mobile, AL.
(A Meredith Corporation Station).
All Rights Reserved.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

KING, N.C. -- It's a playground Amanda Brown has dreamed of for her daughter Kaitlyn, born with cerebral palsy.
"To have a playground that she could be apart of and get to participate in would be just huge for her," said Brown.
"To get to participate with her friends and have fun instead of just watching everyone else do it means everything."
Next week Brown's dream of an all-inclusive playground where Kaitlyn and her twin sister Kinley can play together will become a reality when neighbors come together at King Recreation Acres.
Two years ago a group of residents, from across the region, started the non-profit MADIK to raise more than $400,000 for the state of the art playground.
Funding came from local and state dollars, several local fundraisers and selling sponsorship of elements on the playground.
The big price tag comes due to lots of special equipment and safety measures for children with special needs.
Some of the features include a wheelchair swing, therapeutic swing, a wheelchair accessible merry-go-round, entrance ramps and a number of sensory items for children with autism.
"Every single kid with disabilities or non-disabilities will be able to have fun," said 5th grader Dawson Bowman who has autism.
Throughout the community and beyond people are signing up to help with build week that will start Tuesday, September 26th through Sunday, October 1st.
MADIK is looking for more volunteers for three separate shifts each day.
After the build week, it will take a few additional weeks of installing the playground turf, a concrete picnic area & entrance and landscaping before the playground will officially open.
They will sell honorary bricks and pickets up until the last day of the build and install in the following weeks.
"For me to be able to play with my daughter and for her sister, it's going to be a great experience for us," said Brown.
If you would like to purchase a paver or sign up to volunteer, click here, or call 336-608-0555.
Childcare will be provided for certain shifts but you have to sign up in advance for the service.
A young girl battling cancer who was named as an honorary officer on the Atlanta Police Department has lost her fight, succumbing to the disease at the age of 7.
Karma Lilly Little, was sworn in to the department by Erika Shields during the chief's visit to the Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Emory in February.
She received a badge, her certificate and a bag of goodies.
Little died in her father's arms on Tuesday as the family was fulfilling a bucket list dream in California.
She had been fighting neuroblastoma cancer since the age of two.
WATCH a video tribute posted to YouTube in honor of Karma

Copyright 2017 WGCL-TV (Meredith Corporation).
All rights reserved.
BOSTON (CBS)  A five-month-old baby born with a hole in his stomach was flown from New Orleans to Boston Wednesday for special care after his community rallied to get him here.
Little Hayze Hart was born with gastroschisis, a rare birth defect in which the babys intestines extend outside his stomach through a hole near his belly button.
The baby has already had four surgeries, but at Boston Childrens Hospital, there are doctors who specialize in his condition.
Its very important, said mother Catherine Consolini.
Its pretty much going to be life-saving.
Its amazing, they were kind of at a dead-end road where hes at, but theres so much more they can do there, said father Devin Hart.
His family said there was a sense of urgency, toobecause the boys liver was failing.
His eyes were very yellow, green, that means the damage was starting and that can affect other organs and the brain, said Consolini.
Hayzes family launched a GoFundMe page when the babys insurance denied paying for the cost of an air ambulance to Boston.
That page raised more than $27,000 in donations.
The babys family says they are grateful for the support they received.
The heartfelt and kindness and the generosity from the entire community, from family, from friends, Consolini said.
Were so grateful to all you guys.
According to that GoFundMe page, mom and baby will spend a while in Boston and return to New Orleans when Hayze is stableand Hayze will need to return to Boston every two months for at least a few years.
You must enter the characters with black color that stand out from the other characters

Message: * A friend wanted you to see this item from WRAL.com: http://wr.al/199oa

 A larceny suspect fleeing from police after stealing 10 bras from Walmart was shot Monday night by a woman in a nearby office building.
Wells, CPA was closed to the public Tuesday, and a sign on the door read, "Only clients will be able to enter with an appointment until further notice."
Authorities were called to a Walmart at 7106 Knightdale Boulevard on for a reported larceny at about 6 p.m. when the suspect fled from the store on foot.
Officers chased the man, identified as Deandre Branch, 24, of Clayton, into C.H.
Wells, CPA office building at 7048 Knightdale Blvd.
Once there, Branch forced his way inside the two-story building, which houses multiple businesses, and encountered 54-year-old Connie Wells inside the building.
Police are not releasing details about the encounter, but the incident left Branch with a single gunshot wound.
Wells, the owner of the business and a concealed handgun permitee, was working alone when the incident occurred.
Branch was taken to WakeMed for treatment of life-threatening injuries.
He is in critical but stable condition.
Branch had a criminal history, including an assault charge against a woman.
He is also on probation fora drug charge.
"People are understandably curious about whether or not Mr.
Branch was armed when he encountered Mrs. Wells," said Knightdale Police Chief Lawrence Capps.
"It is important for everyone to understand that the dynamics of such a case must be handled with great care.
It is necessary for certain details to be preserved in order to maintain the integrity of the investigation.
At some point, out agency will be conferring with the District Attorney's Office to determine the most appropriate course of action."
Capps said officers were not close enough to Branch at the time of the shooting to witness the encounter.
Rhonda Allen works with the NRA as a training counselor and is the state leader for The Well Armed Woman organization.
She says more women are seeking firearm training.
"I think the lesson to be learned is that individuals need to be prepared for all times day or night because you never know when it's going to happen," she said.
"I am relieved that she was able to keep herself safe in that situation."
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va.  A British hair dresser aims to change lives one haircut at a time.
Wanting to make a difference in the world, Joshua Coombes set out two years ago to give free haircuts to homeless people all over the world, from London to New York to Cancun and now Virginia Beach.
He was in Hampton Roads Monday at the Judeo Christian Outreach center in Virginia with scissors in hand.
Coombes told News 3 its about more than just getting a trim.
Obviously when you cut someones hair, they can feel a bit better about themselves and hopefully this leads to something else, an inner love for yourself again as a human, he said.
Virginia Beach-based mattress company Leesa is sponsoring the hairdressers U.S. tour.
Follow CBSMIAMI.COM: Facebook | Twitter

MIAMI (CBSMiami)  A flight attendant is outraged she was charged $187 to park her vehicle at Miami International Airport while she worked during Hurricane Irma.
As flight attendants we dont make a whole lot of money, so to hit me in the pocket for almost $200 for parking, thats a lot, said flight attendant Kristle Gilford, who parked her vehicle at MIA for 10 days.
Gilford, who lives in Delaware, says her airline dispatched her to MIA to help get the airplanes moved and relocated before the storm hit.
Since she did not have a pass to park at the airline employees parking lot, she parked her vehicle in the short-term parking lot the Thursday ahead of the storm and worked her flight to Indianapolis.
I was in Indianapolis and I was there for almost five or six days, said Gilford.
And then I couldnt get back here.
Gilford says she was not able to pick up her car until yesterday, and she got a big surprise when she went to pay her parking.
Sure, I expected to pay a portion of it.
But when you know what the circumstances, I felt as though they should have at least waived some of those days when we couldnt get back here, said Gilford.
Gilford says shes disappointed and outraged  others are on the same boat.
The fact of the matter is its not just me.
Theres other people that are here.
There are other people here that have gone home that their houses are destroyed and all youre worried about is charging them some astronomical prices?
Youre taking advantage of people when theyre hurt and down, said Gilford.
CBS4 News reached out to Miami International Airport and officials there said they were looking into the matter.
Man who worked at Louis now lives with its iconic sign

It's a special throwback Thursday for one Omaha man.
His own Benson apartment building is the new home of the iconic Louis Market sign.
"It's a little bit surreal you know, said Dan Downs.
Its almost like a little bit like fate to see that go in."
Downs said he remembers stacking groceries at Louis Market years ago.
"It's very much a throwback to my first job," said Downs.
He was 15 years old at the time.
Now he's 29, but remembers his time at Louis.
"It wasn't fantastic glorious work by any means, he said.
$5.50 an hour was the minimum wage at that time.
It wasn't a ton of money, but gave me a little money to go out with my friends."
Louis was a staple in the community for decades.
It closed in 2013 and was demolished in 2015.
A Buckys was built in its place, and the convenience store held onto the sign until a permanent home could be found.
"I didn't think I'd ever see the sign again, and lo and behold, it popped up by the pool, said Downs.
When property management first announced it was installing the iconic sign, it said it got more than 100,000 views on social media in under 24 hours.
Please enable Javascript to watch this video

KELLER  High school sports can be one of the most stressful things in a students life, but Andrew Nelson is out to change all that, making him our Class Act of the Week.
Andrew is a senior at Keller High, where for years he was a top-flight tennis player.
I became one of the top-ranked players in the state of Texas and I just got burned out because I was playing all the time, said Andrew.
I was practicing all the time and it just got to the point that I was just sick of the sport and it was so much more fun for me to play basketball and ultimate Frisbee with my buddies on the weekend.
And that inspired him to establish a new intramural sports club at Keller.
People were so tired of just being bound to one sport at such a big 6A high school, like we are, where sports are very, very competitive, Andrew said.
I wanted to create a club that allowed students to play different sports while being able to focus on their main sport as well without having to deal with competition or pressure to win.
The club helps give students a wide variety of athletic experience and helps sports be stress-free rather than tension packed.
It also gives an outlet for students who want to play, but who may not want to go varsity.
I mean Im not that athletic but I thought it would be kind of fun to play around and stuff, Alleigh Grubb, one of the intramural team members said.
And Ive also made a lot of new friends so thats really exciting.
Students show up and they laugh and they play and they joke and when they mess up its okay, said Christie McFarland, an English teacher at Keller.
A lot of them need that.
They need a place where they can mess up and its okay.
So with more people getting involved in sports for the first time, and athletes getting a much-needed break from the competition, sounds like Andrew is making High School sports fun again!
Know of a Class Act at your school?
Let us know about them!
CHICAGO (CBS)  In the southwest suburbs, the night manager at a fast food restaurant is found murdered on the job.
Police say they have someone in custody in connection to an altercation that left the man dead.
But at CBS 2s Roseanne Tellez reports, the family is being told little about what happened.
Outside the Arbys restaurant in the 8000 block of West 95th Street in Hickory Hills, two aunts remember their nephew, 35-year-old John Price.
They said police would only tell the family that Price was found dead Wednesday night in the restaurants where he worked for several years.
My sister needs answers.
Her son is dead and the police or nobody wants to tell her how he died, what happened, who did it, said aunt, Laura Ashley.
Hickory Hills Police tell CBS 2 they have a person in custody, with charges pending.
Clean-up crews were at the crime scene much of the day, but the Arbys Company would only say, this is a terribly tragic situation.
The franchisee is cooperating fully with the local authorities.
The Price family meantime awaits answers, baffled by the loss.
He was loving and caring.
He would give the shirt off his back.
He would do anything for anybody.
He didnt deserve this, Ashley said.
It is still a mystery on Thursday night.
No one is telling the family or CBS 2 how the man was killed.
The Medical Examiner said an autopsy is slated for Friday.
Hickory Hills police and the South Suburban Major Crimes Task Force are investigating.
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
A quick-thinking bus driver is being called a hero after saving elementary students from a school bus that caught fire Thursday afternoon in south Kansas City.
Video 41 Action News obtained shows flames roaring from the bus' engine, within seconds consuming the entire vehicle.
It happened just after 3 p.m. near Grandview Road and Cypress Avenue.
At the time, the bus was taking students home from Warford Elementary School.
"You could see [the smoke and fire] getting inside the cab of the bus," said James Davis.
Davis pulled up as the bus driver was evacuating students from the bus.
"He had backpacks in his arms and he was just like getting the kids off the bus really fast," he said.
"He did really well getting them kids off the bus."
No one was injured.
The Hickman Mills School district said a second bus picked up the students immediately, without a problem, as first responders battled the flames.
The district also praised the bus driver, calling him a hero.
The Apple Bus Company sent 41 Action News the following statement regarding the fire:
It's an experience veterans from our area will never forget.
"I'm anxious to go," said Vietnam War veteran Tom Wells.
"I've never seen it, and I'm sure it will be heart-wrenching."
Nearly 80 veterans from across Northwest Ohio got to visit Washington D.C. for the day on Wednesday.
The men and women spent their time touring war memorials built in their honor, free of charge, courtesy of Flag City Honor Flight.
"It's something I've wanted to do is see the memorials that all of the wars that we've had, and it's very, very important," said World War II veteran John Oldman.
Service members from World War II, Korea and Vietnam made up the trip.
Their day started with breakfast followed by presentation of the colors.
The veterans also paired up with a guardian to be by their side for the entire trip.
"It's all very exciting, believe me," said World War II veteran Betty Casselman.
"I had no idea it was such a big deal."
It wasn't just about the trip, as many of the veterans were eager to hear about other's experiences while serving our country.
"I would just love to be able to meet anybody that might have been in the Airborne in World War II because they're my heroes," said Korean War veteran Arthur Taylor.
He was proud to share this once-in-a-lifetime experience with his fellow veterans.
"I'm just overwhelmed...I've never been in anything like this," said Taylor.
"Even when I went to Korea, I packed my bag and went all by myself and I came home all by myself.
To be in a large group and all this excitement is beyond anything I can describe."
Others like Navy veteran Dorothy Cochran were excited to see our nation's monuments up-close for the first time.
"I want to see the one with those guys in the field with those capes on," said Cochran referring to the Korean War Memorial.
It's a well-deserved trip for those took an oath to serve our country no matter the cost.
A new ordinance says cyclists in the city now have to walk their bike when near the city center, city hall, the parking garage and the rec center.
(KCTV5)

Lenexa leaders say they are trying to make the city more bike friendly, but they ran into a roadblock.
A new ordinance says cyclists in the city now have to walk their bike when near the city center, city hall, the parking garage and the rec center.
The ordinance fired up avid cyclists in the area as it calls bikes a nuisance.
City officials do admit this wasnt the best wording.
They say it was all about safety.
"The ordinance basically says you can ride on the sidewalks, you can ride anywhere in Lenexa City Center, but just right here on our campus we ask that people walk their bikes through," Lenexa Director of Communications Denise Rendina said.
"What we are just trying to do it in this little area, we consider a very pedestrian area, we are trying to limit the amount of bikes that are right on here and other wheels, it's not just bikes."
Cyclist Matt Garret says the use of the word nuisance does not come as a surprise.
"Calling the bikes a nuisance, you know, words matter and that falls into the overall scope of how cyclists are treated within the city," Garrett said.
Officials say they noticed kids riding their bikes to the top of the parking structure and racing around it.
They say they were scared there would be an accident.
"Sitting in our offices, it gave us a little bit of pause in our heart because we were scared about safety," Rendina said.
Cyclists have been pushing for months to make the city more bike friendly.
The group iBike Lenexa says they have had both good and frustrating meetings with city officials.
Matt Elder rides four to five times per week and is one of many who thinks the city needs to make room for bicyclists.
"There is a rhythm and a reason to forbid these things.
They need to do a better job of making everything in this part of the country more bike friendly, more transportation friendly,"Elder said.
Garrett says the city is making progress, but not fast enough.
"Words matter, and when you call cyclists a nuisance or you call bikes a nuisance that means something in the community, especially when there is no forward progress on cycling safety," he said.
Garrett says bike riders are meeting with city officials to make Lenexa more bike friendly.
He says an immediate fix would be implementing posted bike routes around the city and letting cyclists know safe places to ride.
Copyright 2017 KCTV (Meredith Corp.) All rights reserved.
MACOMB TOWNSHIP, Mich. (WXYZ) - A Macomb Dakota High School Spanish teacher has been charged for allegedly stealing from the school's homecoming dance and using that money at the casino.
According to Macomb County Prosecutor Eric Smith, Lydia Johnson, 29, is charged with one count of embezzlement from a non-profit organization which could get her 10 years in prison.
Johnson was Dakota's student activity coordinator from July 1, 2016 until her recent removal and was responsible for all finds.
School officials say she oversaw ticket sales for the school's homecoming dance last year, which should have taken in nearly $30,000 based on attendance.
She only deposited $11,000 into the school's account.
When they searched her classroom, they found several homecoming cash deposit envelopes torn open and empty.
They also found several casino receipts next to the empty envelopes.
Her bank records also show cash deposits in excess of her salary.
She also oversaw ticket sales and receipts for a trip to Camp Tamarack for 60 parents and students.
Prosecutors say she should have collected and deposited nearly $13,000 but only deposited $500.
Camp employees tried to collect but couldn't, so they called school officials.
After checking MGM records, they found Johnson spent more than $90,000 in 2016 playing penny slots.
She is expected to be arraigned on the charges Thursday.
CLAREMORE, Okla. -- An Oklahoma group is calling a symbol at a Claremore museum offensive and asking for it to be removed.
It was the cornerstone in Clem Van Rogers livery stable," Will Rogers Memorial Museum Public Relations Director Pat Reeder said.
From a distance, it's hard to read the message below the initials.
They sold it for $400 and in 1936 they started this building and Will had already died and they decided to name it for him," Reeder said.
It's a piece of history that's been around for more than 100 years and sits on the south side of the building at the Claremore Museum of History.
"I think its offensive to me that someone would think that a cornerstone would be so hate-filled youd have to remove it," Reeder said.
The symbol on top of the cornerstone is under fire.
For Native Americans, it was very much life, earth and sun thats what it meant to them," Reeder said.
Reeder remembers it as a patch on soldiers uniforms of the 45th division in World War I, who were mostly from Oklahoma.
I couldnt find anything that called it a name," she said.
"I think it was given the name when Hitler decided he needed a symbol.
Black Lives Matter advocate reverend Mareo Johnson wants it removed.
When you see it now its a public representation of hate and regardless of what it meant then its how people see it now," he said.
Reverend Johnson says the meaning has changed overtime and wants any sign of hate removed.
The swastika sign is the main point and everything else is fine its that symbol that is connected to hate," he said.
He wants the country to move forward.
I dont believe that it will be too hard of a process because its very understandable," Rev.
Johnson sad.
Just off Will Rogers Boulevard, is the cornerstone's home that Pat Reeder doesn't want to see go.
Second time in 50 years that anyone has ever said anything about it," she said.
Johnson says he plans to reach out and set up a meeting with the president of the museum to express his concerns.
Stay in touch with us anytime, anywhere.
Download our free app for Apple and Android and Kindle devices.
Sign up for newsletters emailed to your inbox.
Select from these options: Breaking News, Severe Weather, School Closings, Daily Headlines and Daily Forecasts.
Follow us on Twitter:

Like us on Facebook:
The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children is asking for the publics help locating a missing 10-year-old boy.
(Credit: KMOV)

ST. LOUIS, Mo.
(KMOV.com)  Late Thursday night, police found a brother and sister that were reported missing after the sister allegedly shot their father in the back of the head Sunday.
The St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department found 10-year-old Tyron Pembrook-Hagood and his 16-year-old sister in the area of Goodfellow and Natural Bridge around 11:30 p.m.

Police said on Sept. 17, a girl, who has not been named, pulled a gun on her father.
The girl then allegedly shot the father in the back of the head, and ran away from home with Pembrook-Hagood in the 8700 block of Goodfellow.
Thomas Witherspoon lives across the street and said he heard gunshots late Sunday night.
I saw my neighbor coming outside and I said Wayne you alright?
He said, Nah I been shot in the head, said Witherspoon.
Multiple neighbors told News 4 the father is 61-year-old Wayne Brown.
Hes listed in critical, stable condition at a St. Louis hospital.
Witherspoon said Brown told him he didnt know why he was shot but was clear about who shot him.
He had his hand on the back of his head hollering, Ive been shot by my daughter, said Witherspoon.
After the duo was reported missing, police told the public to be cautious if they saw Pembrook-Hagood or his sister.
They said it was likely she was likely armed.
Pembrook-Hagood is not considered a suspect, and police said they wanted to find him to find out more about the shooting.
News 4 reported earlier that the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children is asking for the publics help in locating Pembrook-Hagood.
Witherspoon said he saw Tyron, his sister and a third person running down the sidewalk.
Anyone with any information is asked to call St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department or CrimeStoppers at 1-866-371-8477.
Copyright 2017 KMOV (Meredith Corporation).
All rights reserved
(Editors Note: Please be advised that paragraph seven contains language which some readers may find offensive.)
By James Oliphant and Valerie Volcovici

SOMERSET, N.J.,/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - NFL teams staged a show of solidarity with protesting players before Sundays games by kneeling, linking arms or staying off the field during the U.S. national anthem, defying President Donald Trumps call for owners to fire those who refuse to stand.
Along the sidelines of National Football League games across the country and in London, coaches, support staff and even some owners joined team members in a silent response to Trumps weekend denunciation of players who kneel during the anthem as unpatriotic.
In a gesture initiated last season by then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, several NFL players have routinely taken one knee during the playing of the anthem.
It is intended to call attention to what the protesting players see as a pattern of racism in the treatment of African-Americans by U.S. police.
In Detroit, several members of the Lions knelt while singer Rico Lavelle dropped to one knee and pumped a fist in the air at the end of his performance of the Star-Spangled Banner.
In Philadelphia, city police officers joined with Eagles and New York Giants players and Eagles team owner Jeffrey Lurie to link arms during the anthem in a sign of solidarity.
While some Americans are sympathetic to the protesters, others see the refusal to stand as a sign of disrespect for the flag and for members of the military who have sacrificed or died in defending the country.
Trump rekindled the controversy on Friday at an Alabama political rally in which he suggested any protesting player was a son of a bitch and urged owners to dismiss them on the spot, reprising his reality-show catch phrase: Youre fired.
The theme could play well with Trumps conservative base at a time when the Republican president is grappling with North Koreas nuclear threats, an investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election and a healthcare struggle in Congress.
POLITICAL DIVISIONS

Related Coverage Trump presses NFL over protest dispute, praises NASCAR

But Trumps stance appeared to galvanize players, teams and the league to assert what they see as a right to express their political convictions freely.
It also highlighted the deep political rift that Trumps election has exposed across many segments of American society.
New England Patriots Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Kraft, who has dined with Trump and whom the president considers a friend, criticized Trump on Sunday and defended players right to protest.
I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the president on Friday, Kraft said in a statement.
He said players had a right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner they feel is most impactful.
Despite a strong rebuke of his remarks by NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and the players union on Saturday, the president did not back down on Sunday, calling on fans to boycott the league if it would not discipline protesting players.
If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast, Trump wrote on Twitter.
Fire or suspend!
In another tweet, Trump, who spent the weekend at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey, said that the league should back fans who are upset about the protests.
NFL Football - Jacksonville Jaguars vs Baltimore Ravens - NFL International Series - Wembley Stadium, London, Britain - September 24, 2017 Jacksonville Jaguars players kneel during the U.S. national anthem before the match Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Boyers

In Chicago, Trumps feud was the main topic of conversation at the South Loop Club sports bar.
This is a First Amendment issue and the president is supposed to uphold that right, said Sam Cunningham, 55, who was watching the Pittsburgh-Chicago game with his wife.
He should know better than anyone that to fire someone because of their opinion is not right.
One patron at a sports bar in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Trump supporter Tim Kull, 67, said: Do it on your time, not when you are wearing that uniform.
GESTURE BY TOM BRADY

In Foxboro, Massachusetts, more than a dozen players and coaches on the Super Bowl champion Patriots knelt or linked arms, including quarterback Tom Brady, whom Trump name-dropped as a friend on the campaign trail.
Brady placed one hand on his chest and used the other to link arms with his teammates.
Slideshow (29 Images)

Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shad Khan linked arms with team players in solidarity at the game against the Baltimore Ravens in Londons Wembley Stadium.
Khan donated $1 million to the Trump inauguration fund.
Robert McNair, chairman of the Houston Texans, said Trumps comments were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now.
McNair also donated $1 million to Trump.
Other teams decided to stay off the field during the anthem.
Before the Seattle Seahawks game against the Tennessee Titans in Nashville, neither team came out until after the pre-game ceremony.
Except for a single player, the Pittsburgh Steelers remained off the field in Chicago before their game against the Bears to avoid playing politics, head coach Mike Tomlin said.
The team was roundly booed by the home crowd when it finally emerged.
The demonstrations along the sidelines ahead of Sundays early game triggered a fresh round of tweets by the president.
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
he wrote.
NBA PLAYERS RESPOND

National Basketball Association players also struck back against comments by the president on Saturday after Trump clashed with one of the biggest stars in the league, Stephen Curry.
Then on Saturday evening, Oakland As rookie Bruce Maxwell became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel for the national anthem in protest.
In a Twitter message, Trump rescinded a White House invitation to Curry, who had said he would vote against the planned visit by the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
Curry told a news conference in Oakland, California: Its beneath the leader of a country to go that route.
In a tweet on Sunday, Trump said the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team, which won the Stanley Cup, accepted his invitation to the White House.
Great team!
he wrote.
Former U.S.
Congressman Anthony Weiner arrives at U.S. Federal Court for sentencing after pleading guilty to one count of sending obscene messages to a minor, ending an investigation into a "sexting" scandal that played a role in last year's U.S. presidential election, in New York, U.S.,September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson (UNITED STATES)

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Former U.S.
Congressman Anthony Weiner was sentenced to 21 months in prison on Monday for sending sexually explicit messages to a 15-year-old girl, setting off a scandal that played a role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
Weiner, 53, started to cry as soon as the sentence was announced by U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in Manhattan.
He pleaded guilty in May to transferring obscene messages to a minor, and agreed he would not appeal any sentence of 27 months or less.
I was a very sick man for a very long time, but Im also responsible for the damage I have done, Weiner said in court before he was sentenced.
He said he was being treated, and asked Cote to spare him prison and sentence him to probation so he could continue treatment.
Cote said she believed Weiner was suffering from an addiction, and was serious about being treated.
However, she said it was important to impose a sentence that would deter others from committing similar crimes.
There is the opportunity to make a statement that could protect other minors, she said.
Weiner declined to speak to reporters as he left the courtroom.
He will surrender on Nov. 6.
Former U.S.
Congressman Anthony Weiner arrives at U.S. Federal Court for sentencing after pleading guilty to one count of sending obscene messages to a minor, ending an investigation into a "sexting" scandal that played a role in last year's U.S. presidential election, in New York, U.S.,September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson (UNITED STATES)

The investigation into Weiners exchanges with a North Carolina high school student roiled the 2016 U.S. presidential campaign in its final days, when authorities found emails on Weiners laptop from his wife Huma Abedin, an aide to Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.
Abedin has filed for divorce.
Weiner wore his wedding band at the sentencing.
The discovery of the emails prompted James Comey, then director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, to announce in late October that the agency was reopening its investigation into Clintons use of a private email server while she was U.S. secretary of state.
Slideshow (5 Images)

Clinton has said the announcement contributed to her upset loss to Republican Donald Trump, who had accused her of endangering national security by using the private server.
President Trump fired Comey in May amid the FBIs probe into whether his campaign colluded with Russia to defeat Clinton, a claim the president has denied.
Weiner represented parts of New York City in the U.S. House of Representatives for 12 years before resigning in 2011, after it emerged that he had exchanged sexually explicit messages with adult women.
In 2013, Weiner ran for New York City mayor, but dropped out of the race when more lewd messages became public.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Secret Service arrested a person with firearms near the White House on Sunday morning, the agency said in a statement on Monday.
Uniformed Secret Service officers were approached by the person at an intersection close to the White House, the statement said.
The encounter with the individual resulted in Secret Service Officers taking investigative action.
The individual was arrested for possession of several firearms, the statement said.
No further details were provided by the Secret Service, which is the federal agency responsible for protecting top U.S. elected leaders, notably the president, and visiting foreign dignitaries.
A series of security breaches, including people jumping over the fence into the White House grounds, prompted to the Secret Service to close public access in April to a sidewalk along the south fence of the White House.
Security has been boosted, including the installation in 2015 of sharp spikes on top of the black iron fence that circles the 18-acre (7-hectare) property.
Unattended packages and other security concerns frequently prompt the Secret Service to put the White House on lockdown, but many of the incidents are false alarms.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (Reuters) - Hundreds of stranded travelers filled the sweltering halls of San Juan International Airport on Monday anxious to know when they could leave and reconnect with families after Hurricane Maria devastated power and communications across the island.
Fearful of checking out of hotels in case they could not get on the few flights available, worried passengers waited in long lines at Puerto Ricos main airport, struggling to get through to loved ones and airlines alike.
Everything is hearsay at the moment because there is no communication, said 31-year-old Rene Kessler, a medical student from Baltimore, Maryland, preparing to spend the night in the airport ahead of what he hoped would be a flight back to the United States.
Puerto Rican officials have confirmed at least 10 storm-related fatalities on the island, and the hurricane was blamed for at least 19 other deaths across the Caribbean, the bulk of them on the devastated island nation of Dominica.
A microcosm of the battered island, the San Juan airport is a top priority in efforts by Puerto Ricos cash-strapped government to repair the vast damage caused by Maria.
Experts say the work will take months and likely run into tens of billions of dollars.
Closed for days following the storm, the airport is a major test of Puerto Ricos ability to transport people and supplies and overcome the communications vacuum that has plagued the island since the storm.
Mara has also turned Puerto Rico, a haven for Caribbean islanders left homeless by Hurricane Irma earlier this month, into a disaster zone with virtually no power that many are now desperate to escape.
A dam on the island has weakened by heavy rains from Hurricane Maria was in danger of failing, posing a flood threat to thousands of homes downstream.
Some 70,000 people who inhabit a river valley below the Guajataca Dam in the northwestern corner of the island have been under evacuation since Friday after authorities warned the structure was in danger of imminent collapse.
An aerial view shows the damage to the Guajataca dam in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, in Quebradillas.
REUTERS/Alvin Baez

The fear of a potentially catastrophic dam break added to the extreme difficulties facing disaster relief authorities in the aftermath of Maria, which has claimed at least 29 lives across the Caribbean, according to officials and media reports.
Puerto Rico Governor Ricardo Rossello urged residents of the area to evacuate after surveying damage to the dam over the weekend, telling reporters that a fissure in the structure has become a significant rupture.
The National Weather Service in San Juan, the islands capital, on Monday continued a flood warning for western Puerto Rico.
Slideshow (6 Images)

Maria, the second major hurricane to savage the Caribbean this month and the most powerful to strike Puerto Rico in nearly a century, carved a path of destruction through the island after plowing ashore early on Wednesday.
WE LOST EVERYTHING

We lost our house, it was completely flooded, said resident Carmen Gloria Lamb, a resident near the rain-swollen Guajataca.
We lost everything.
Cars, clothes, everything.
Severe flooding, structural damage to homes and the loss of all electricity, except from backup generators, were three of the most pressing problems facing Puerto Ricans, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said during a tour of the island.
New York is home to many of Puerto Rican descent.
Its a terrible immediate situation that requires assistance from the federal government, not just financial assistance, he said on CNN on Saturday.
Even the islands medical facilities have been left in precarious shape, with many hospitals flooded, strewn with rubble and running critically low on diesel fuel needed to keep generators operating.
Evacuation to the U.S. mainland is the only option for some patients.
The storm has caused an estimated $45 billion of damage and lost economic activity across the Caribbean, with at least $30 billion of that in Puerto Rico, said Chuck Watson, a disaster modeler at Enki Research in Savannah, Georgia.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. senators made a last-ditch effort on Monday to secure support for the latest Republican attempt to repeal former President Barack Obamas signature healthcare law, releasing revised legislation to appeal to undecided senators.
The bill had faced possible defeat this week as several senators in the party voiced concerns.
The Senate is up against a Saturday deadline for deciding the fate of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, because of an expiring rule that lets the Republican healthcare legislation pass with just a simple 51-vote majority, instead of the 60-vote threshold needed for most measures.
Republicans, who control the Senate 52-48, were finding it difficult even to clear that lower hurdle.
The Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on Monday in an attempt to build support for the bill and to tamp down Democratic criticism that the measure has not been thoroughly vetted.
Republican senators leading the effort on Monday released a revised version of their bill, originally introduced by Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy.
It included a table that said some states where senators have been undecided, such as Alaska and Maine, would do better under the bill than under current law.
The Washington Post first reported the revision.
For seven years, Republicans have hammered Obamacare as an unwarranted and overly expensive government intrusion into American healthcare.
Republican President Donald Trump made repealing Obamacare one of his top campaign promises in 2016.
Democrats have fiercely defended it, saying it has extended health insurance to millions.
Democratic leaders roundly rejected the revised draft as a sleight of hand to gain support.
The last attempt to repeal Obamacare fell one vote short in July, in a humiliating setback for Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Protesters, mostly handicapped, line the hallway outside the Senate Finance Committee hearing room hours ahead a hearing on the latest Republican effort to repeal Obamacare on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

The Graham-Cassidy bill would take federal money spent on the Medicaid program for the poor and disabled, as well as subsidies to help Americans buy private insurance, and divvy it up to the states in block grants.
Advocates say that would give states more discretion to manage their own healthcare schemes.
Opponents fear that undoing Obamacare will mean millions lose healthcare, including some with pre-existing medical conditions.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is expected to produce as early as Monday a preliminary analysis of the bill that would assess its impact on budget deficits.
Slideshow (4 Images)

More time is likely needed for the CBO to gauge how the bill could affect Americans access to health insurance.
Opposition to the Graham-Cassidy plan grew on Sunday.
Conservative Republican Senator Ted Cruz, speaking at an event in his home state of Texas, warned on Sunday that Trump and McConnell could not count on his vote.
Cruz has pushed for greater government cost savings in healthcare.
Moderate Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who voted against her partys bill in July, said on CNNs State of the Union on Sunday that it was difficult to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill.
She worried about cuts to Medicaid benefits to the poor and disabled.
It was unclear whether the revisions would sway the Republican holdouts.
U.S. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer dismissed the late effort to revise the bill and add money for a few states, calling it just as bad for those states and the rest of the states because it still contains a massive cut to Medicaid.
A total of three Republican defections would kill off the latest effort to repeal Obamacare.
Republican Senators John McCain and Rand Paul already have registered their opposition.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Violent crime rose 4.1 percent nationwide in 2016 compared to the 2015 estimates, the U.S. Justice Department said on Monday.
Violent crime, which the report defines as non-negligent killings, rape, robbery and aggravated assault, had steadily dropped since 2006, but had increased slightly in 2015, according to the annual report by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
The report ... reaffirms that the worrying violent crime increase that began in 2015 after many years of decline was not an isolated incident, the Justice Department said in a statement.
The report said an estimated 1.2 million violent crimes took place across the country in 2016, an increase of 4.1 percent over the 2015 estimate.
In cities with populations larger than 100,000, the violent crime rate in 2016 was up 3.4 percent compared to the estimate from 2015.
President Donald Trump, who took office in January, has said he would do more to fight criminal gangs and would send in federal help to stem violent crime in Chicago.
The Justice Department has reversed or distanced itself from many of the Obama administrations policies, including consent decrees to reform police departments and limits on transferring certain types of military gear to local law enforcement agencies.
(Reuters) - Barbara Blaine, who founded the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests and led the organization until earlier this year, died on Sunday at age 61 in Utah, her family and the organization said.
Blaine suffered a spontaneous coronary artery dissection last Monday, her family said in a statement.
The rare occurrence involves a tear in one or more blood vessels of the heart.
She died on Sunday with her husband, Howard, and her sisters at her side, the family statement said.
The organization she founded in 1988 is a leading advocacy and support group for victims of sexual abuse by clergy.
It has thousands of members and works to help people from a range of faith traditions.
Blaine, who was born in Toledo, Ohio, held her first meetings of the Survivors Network of those Abuse by Priests (SNAP) in a homeless shelter that she ran in Chicago.
At the time, Blaine was part of the Catholic Worker Movement.
Few people have done more to protect kids and help victims than Barbara Blaine, Barbara Dorris, the managing director of SNAP, said in a statement.
As a child, Blaine was abused by a priest at the Catholic school she attended in Toledo, but she was unable to tell anyone about it for years because of the shame and trauma she experienced, according to her biography on the website of SNAP.
Blaine resigned as president of SNAP in February, after she was named in a lawsuit that accused SNAP officials of connecting attorneys with potential clients in return for financial kickbacks to SNAP, the Chicago Tribune reported at the time.
Blaine said then that her resignation as president was unrelated to the lawsuit, the newspaper reported.
The 2015 film Spotlight, which won the Oscar for best picture and portrayed the true story of Boston Globe journalists investigating abuse and cover ups in the Roman Catholic Church, included a character from SNAP.
A police officer patrols with a rifle as passengers gather their luggage at Dulles International Airport in Dulles, Virginia, U.S. September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/James Lawler Duggan

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administrations announcement on Sunday that it is issuing new travel restrictions on people entering the United States from eight countries could lead to an upcoming Supreme Court case on its previous more controversial ban ending in a whimper rather than a bang.
The new presidential proclamation set restrictions on citizens from eight countries and is set to go into effect on Oct. 18, eight days after the court is due to hear oral arguments over the legality of Trumps earlier ban.
The Trump administration on Sunday night asked the high court to considering hearing new briefing on the case before the oral argument to address the effects of the proclamation on the issues currently pending before the court in these cases.
Now the nine-justice court could skip deciding the case altogether, legal experts said.
The March 6 order under Supreme Court review banned travelers from six Muslim-majority countries and limited refugee admissions.
Challengers say the order discriminated against Muslims in violation of the U.S. Constitution.
A decision on that issue would be consequential not just for Trump but also future presidents who would be bound by it.
But with the challenged policy no longer on the books, the court has various options to resolve the dispute without issuing a ruling.
The 90-day travel ban, which covered Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, ran until Sunday.
The 120-day refugee ban expires on Oct. 24.
Even before Trumps latest announcement, experienced Supreme Court lawyers and immigration law experts had expressed doubts about whether the nine justices would want to issue a decisive ruling, in part because of a desire to stay out of such a contentious issue.
If the court can avoid entering into the fray, that may be appealing to them, said Anil Kalhan, an immigration law professor at Drexel University School of Law.
With the travel restrictions expiring, the court has an easy way out because it could simply say that the case is no longer a live issue and therefore, in legal parlance, moot.
The Supreme Court has already intervened three times since March in limiting the scope of lower court rulings that struck down the March order.
Its most significant act came in June when it allowed both bans to go into effect in a limited fashion.
The unsigned decision suggested that the courts four liberals and two of its conservative majority, Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Anthony Kennedy, were keen on a compromise.
Three other conservatives, including Trump appointee Neil Gorsuch, said both bans should have been allowed to go into effect in full.
The Trump administration has yet to say what it would prefer the court to do, but former Justice Department lawyers say it is likely to request that if the court does dismiss the case, it also throws out the lower court rulings that struck the bans down.
The benefit for the administration is that it would wipe out those precedents, including the broad decision by the Richmond-based 4th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals that said the order discriminated against Muslims.
The decision cited Trumps campaign statements in concluding that the order was motivated by anti-Muslim bias.
The Trump administration says the order was needed for national security reasons.
Its certainly in the governments interest to get the adverse ... opinions off the books because those decisions constrain executive authority, said Washington lawyer Pratik Shah, who previously worked at the Justice Department.
The March order took effect on June 26, following a Supreme Court ruling that narrowed the scope of lower court rulings.
Litigation continued over the summer on who exactly was covered by the bans, culminating in a Supreme Court decision on Sept. 12 that allowed Trump to enforce the refugee ban broadly but kept lower court restrictions that prevent close family members from being denied entry.
The March 6 order was itself Trumps second attempt to impose a travel ban after his original, much broader Jan. 27 plan was blocked by lower court following turmoil at U.S. airports caused by its abrupt rollout.
(THis version of the story has been refiled to change date in dateline)
The scene where people were injured when gunfire erupted at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ, in Nashville, Tennessee, U.S., September 24, 2017.
Metro Nashville Police Department/Handout via REUTERS

(Reuters) - A masked gunman killed a woman in the parking lot of a Tennessee church on Sunday morning and wounded six worshipers inside the building before shooting himself in a scuffle with an usher who rushed to stop the attack.
The shooter, identified as Emanuel Kidega Samson, 25, walked into Nashvilles Burnette Chapel Church of Christ wearing a ski mask and opened fire, Metropolitan Nashville Police spokesman Don Aaron told reporters.
As the church usher grappled with the suspect, he was struck in the head with the gunmans weapon before the suspect fired and wounded himself in the chest, police said.
Although injured, the usher, 22-year-old Robert Engle, then retrieved a gun from his vehicle, re-entered the sanctuary and held the suspect at bay until police arrived.
This is an exceptionally brave individual, Aaron said of the usher during a briefing outside the church in Antioch, about 10 miles (16 km) southeast of downtown Nashville.
About 50 people were worshipping at the church when the gunman entered.
Samson was armed with two pistols and had another handgun and a rifle in his sport utility vehicle, according to a police statement.
The scene where people were injured when a gunman opened fire at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ, in Nashville, Tennessee, U.S. September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/Jamie Gilliam

Police had not determined the motive behind the shooting, but the spokesman said evidence was found that might establish why the man opened fire.
Church members told investigators Samson attended the church in the past, but not recently, Nashville police said in a statement.
Slideshow (2 Images)

Samson was charged with murder, and authorities planned to bring other charges against him, police said.
A churchgoer, Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tennessee, was fatally shot in the parking lot, where she was found lying next to the suspects blue SUV.
All but one of the six people wounded by gunfire were 60 or older and were taken to nearby hospitals, said Nashville Fire Department spokesman Joseph Pleasant.
At least some of the wounded were in critical condition, he said.
The churchs pastor, Joey Spann, was shot in the chest and was being treated at a hospital, WKRN television news channel reported, citing the pastors son.
The Nashville Christian School, where Spann is a coach and Bible teacher, said Spanns wife also was injured.
Samson was treated at a hospital and transferred to a jail.
In a photo released by police, he was shown walking in blue hospital garb, as police officers led him along a walkway.
SAN LUIS OBISPO, Calif. (Reuters) - Prison guards fired rubber bullets and pepper spray to quell a riot on Sunday involving more than 160 inmates at a central California penitentiary in which one prisoner was stabbed to death and eight others wounded, state corrections officials said.
No staff members were injured in the disturbance, which erupted shortly before 11 a.m. at the California Mens Colony near San Luis Obispo, and took less than 10 minutes to bring under control, said Lieutenant Monica Ayon, the prison spokeswoman.
Nine inmates who suffered stab wounds in the melee were transported to a hospital for medical treatment, and one died there, she said.
He was identified as Matthew Cook, who was serving a sentence of 13 years and eight months for burglary.
The condition of the eight others was not immediately known, but she said two of the injured were expected to be discharged and returned to the prison on Sunday evening.
At least three of the wounded inmates required trauma-level care, said Ron Yukelson, a spokesman for Sierra Vista Regional Medical Center, where the prisoners were taken.
Ayon said the cause of the disturbance was under investigation.
She said it was the largest riot, and the first such fatal incident, she could recall in her 22 years at the facility.
The California Mens Colony, opened in 1954, houses nearly 4,200 minimum- and medium-security inmates programs near San Luis Obispo, about 190 miles (305 km) north of Los Angeles.
Sundays riot occurred in a medium-security yard where some 600 inmates were present, but the disturbance involved between 160 and 170 of the prisoners, Ayon said.
The entire facility was placed under special restrictions after the incident, with virtually all inmates confined to their cells as the yard was being cleared, she said.
By Sunday, the sports-watching world was confronted with a display of politics in the athletic arena with no recent precedent in the United States  from images of two football squads declining to take the field in Nashville; to a New York Giants star, Odell Beckham Jr., celebrating a touchdown by raising his fist to the air; to a procession of football executives, including some personal friends of Mr. Trump, expressing unease with his remarks.
The Rev.
Jesse L. Jackson said Mr. Trump had effectively challenged athletes of all races to rise against him, by using language Mr. Jackson described as displaying a slave-master-servant mentality.
Mr. Jackson said it was incumbent on athletes, irrespective of their race, to show Mr. Trump they could not be belittled or stripped of their right to free speech.
They should all kneel, not against the flag, but against the interference by Mr. Trump with their First Amendment rights, Mr. Jackson said, urging players not to underestimate their power: If the cotton pickers dont pick cotton, the industry doesnt move; the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
players dont play the game, it doesnt move.
Mayor Bill Peduto of Pittsburgh, whose city saw its beloved Steelers football team stay in the locker room during the national anthem at a game in Chicago on Sunday, described Mr. Trumps remarks as alarming.
Mr. Peduto, who said he supported the Steelers protest, said he planned to hold discussions on the local level with residents who feel personally wounded by the controversy.
If youre a gold star mom, the idea of kneeling through the national anthem is beyond disgraceful and is a cause of emotional harm, Mr. Peduto said.
But if youre a mom who lost their child in the streets of America, the idea of kneeling is saying to you that your voice is being heard.
In his city, Mr. Peduto said, there are two distinct sides that need to have a conversation, not a president who chooses sides.
Mr. Trump is unlikely to back down in the face of criticism.
He has intensified his statements repeatedly since declaring Friday in Huntsville, Ala. that N.F.L.
owners should fire any son of a bitch who fails to join displays of patriotism, a clear allusion to Mr. Kaepernicks practice of kneeling during the national anthem to protest police brutality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The president followed up on Saturday by disinviting Mr. Currys entire team to the White House, after Mr. Curry said he would not visit the presidential residence to celebrate the Warriors basketball championship.
And Mr. Trump suggested on Twitter on Sunday that football fans might refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Speaking to reporters on Sunday, Mr. Trump said his criticism had nothing to do with race.
Mr. Trump has a long record of wielding racial and cultural divisions to his political advantage, as well as making inflammatory comments that distract from his policy agenda or from problems hed prefer the news media not cover.
His statements this weekend, for instance, drew attention away from a flagging effort by Senate Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
He has been applauded by some elected Republicans, enthusiastically so by many in the conservative news media.
Laura Ingraham, a radio and television host who is closely aligned with Mr. Trump, cheered his rebuke of Mr. Curry on Twitter: Pro-athletes who cant set aside politics to visit the White House, Ms. Ingraham said, should be treated like the spoiled children they are.
But Mr. Trump may also have risked a more complicated backlash than he is accustomed to.
The episode follows close on the heels of Mr. Trumps comments in August equating anti-racism protesters with neo-Nazis, a moment that threatened to destabilize his presidency.
And professional athletes are not a traditional punching bag for Republicans, like Hollywood actors or the news media.
With the advent of Twitter and other social media, admired athletes like Mr. Curry and LeBron James  who chastised Mr. Trump on Saturday  have vast personal followings with whom they can communicate directly, bypassing owners and the news media, unlike sports heroes of the past.
Former Senator Bill Bradley, a Democrat and retired New York Knicks star, urged athletes to do just that on Sunday, calling in a statement for everyone who has ever been a fan or a player, as a kid or as an adult to reject Mr. Trumps comments.
Perhaps the most significant warning sign for Mr. Trump was the sometimes-strained criticism from football team owners, a largely white and Republican-leaning group that includes several personal associates of the president.
Mr. Trump collected support during the 2016 campaign from an array of sports executives and athletes, despite the racially divisive nature of his campaign.
But by Sunday, several owners who have been prolific donors to Mr. Trump and the Republican Party had spoken out against him in cautious language, including Robert C. McNair, owner of the Houston Texans, and Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots, a close friend of Mr. Trump.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The comments made by the President were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now, Mr. McNair said in a statement.
Ari Fleischer, a former White House press secretary who advises athletes and sports teams on public relations, said Mr. Trumps acidic language and calls for retribution may have undermined public sympathy for his most basic demand  that athletes stand for the national anthem.
Public opinion polls, Mr. Fleischer noted, have found Americans generally unfriendly to the idea of protesting during the anthem.
He has created more kneelers today, which I regret, Mr. Fleischer said of the president.
Trump went too far, but the overwhelming majority of Americans do not want to see football players disrespect the national anthem.
Still, for all the immediate blowback against Mr. Trump, it remains to be seen whether the tumultuous weekend might herald a more lasting cultural shift in sports toward more overt acknowledgment of racial and political issues.
Most athletes and team owners have typically avoided explicit political involvement, fearing that they might alienate fans who hold a range of views.
The sudden rallying around Mr. Kaepernick, several activists noted, came well after the quarterback came under ferocious criticism last year for his form of protest.
Mr. Kaepernick is currently unsigned and appears not to have been hired by any team due to the controversy surrounding him.
Invoking Baltimores football team, Benjamin T. Jealous, a former president of the N.A.A.C.P., who is running for governor of Maryland as a Democrat, said, Id be very proud if the Ravens chose to give Kaepernick another shot.
He said Mr. Trumps attacks had forced a more forthright reckoning with the rights of athletes to speak their minds.
He ultimately challenged each of us to stand up and be very clear about what our flag stands for and what we believe, Mr. Jealous said.
Across the island, Marias prolonged barrage took out entire plantations and destroyed dairy barns and industrial chicken coops.
Plantain, banana and coffee crops were the hardest hit, Mr. Flores said.
Landslides in the mountainous interior of the island took out many roads, a major part of the agriculture infrastructure there.
The island suffered a loss of $780 million in agriculture yields, according to the departments preliminary figures.
Hurricane Georges in 1998 wiped out about 65 percent of crops and Hurricane Irma, which only grazed the island, took out about $45 million in agriculture production.
Photo

For over 400 years, Puerto Ricos economy was based on agriculture, historically focused on sugar cane, tobacco and citrus fruits.
The islands economy rapidly industrialized after World War II, leading to the downfall of agriculture production.
In recent years, in part because of the islands economic recession, people went back to the fields, and the industry is going through a small renaissance, growing at 3 to 5 percent every year over the past six years, Mr. Flores said.
A growing farm-to-table movement has generated optimism in recent years about an agricultural rebirth.
Puerto Rico already imports about 85 percent of its food, and now its food imports are certain to rise drastically as local products like coffee and plantains are added to the list of Marias staggering losses.
Local staples that stocked supermarkets, school lunchrooms and even Walmart are gone.
Sometimes when there are shortages, the price of plantain goes up from $1 to $1.25.
This time, there wont be any price increase; there wont be any product, Mr. Rivera said.
When I heard the meteorologist say that the two had turned into a three and then a four, I thought, Agriculture in Puerto Rico is over.
This really is a catastrophe.
He noted that other islands that export food to Puerto Rico, such as the Dominican Republic, Dominica and St. Martin, were also hit, and that the food supply could be even more precarious if the islands other suppliers were also affected.
There wont be any gandules at Christmas this year, Mr. Ortiz said, referring to a local favorite usually served as a combination of rice, pigeon peas and pork called arroz con gandules.
Even if we planted now, they wont be ready.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Ortiz, 80, said he had been working these fields for seven decades.
He has lived through his share of hurricanes, including Georges, which wiped out the local sugar refinery in 1998.
I have never seen losses like these in any of my 80 years, he said as he stood on a riverbank, counting the number of coconut trees that fell.
He could earn $100 a month from each one of them.
A dozen cracked in half, beside a nursery where the winds swept away all the seedlings and left behind broken glass and ruin.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Those palms take about 10 years to grow, he said.
I will be dead by then.
He is not the owner, but he said it hurt all the same.
You know what its like to see the place where you earn your daily bread destroyed?
Efrain M. Robles Menendez, a dairy farmer, said cattle ranchers had been hit hard, because not only was there major damage to the infrastructure needed to maintain the business, but the supply chain was also cut off.
With stores closed and the power out, the dairy trucks have not come.
Since Wednesday, I have thrown out 4,000 liters of milk a day, he said.
Come back later, and watch me pour it all down the drain.
Some see the potential for something positive to come out of a disaster.
Agricultural officials are hoping this will be the islands chance to modernize its outmoded agriculture industry.
Agriculture is the most vulnerable sector to natural disasters, Mr. Flores said.
But its also the one that can have the speediest recovery, and itll be the great surprise in the Puerto Rican economy, because were going to come back stronger.
Mr. Flores said much of the traditional agriculture in the island had depended on energy-inefficient practices that waste too much water and produce large amounts of waste.
Federal funds that will help farmers rebuild infrastructure damaged by the hurricane will present an opportunity to improve the industry, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We had an antiquated agricultural infrastructure that maybe now is the opportunity to make it more efficient, he said.
Now is the moment because were starting from zero.
Maybe it hadnt been done before because there was no way of financing it.
Were going to rebuild better this time.
Photo

Eduardo Bhatia Gautier, a local senator, said, We can start developing an agriculture industry that is more profitable and start exporting Puerto Rican products, something this island hasnt done in decades.
Puerto Rico currently imports about 85 percent of the food it consumes and exports only 15 percent of what it produces, according to the government.
Puerto Rico, Mr. Bhatia said, could service a growing demand for organic foods in the mainland United States.
He estimated it could take at least a year to get the industry back up and running, as the soil recovers and farmers replant trees.
But long-term optimism does little to help farmers contemplating the destruction they see around them.
Mr. Pinto, 62, drove to the capital last week to stock up on vegetables to sell at a kiosk he runs with his wife.
He did so because his 14,000 plantain trees are all dead and he had nothing of his own to sell.
On the ride to San Juan, he looked around at toppled trees, downed telephone poles, tangled power lines, roofs and crumbled wood structures and wept.
I could not take seeing my country in pieces like that, he said, holding back tears.
Mr. Pinto also lost all of his cattle.
Literally.
He does not know where they are.
He plans to start over as he did a decade ago when he lost everything to a flood.
He will get about 35 percent of the value back from insurance, and will not quit, he said, using an expression that has become a popular hashtag: #yonomequito  I will not give up.
A people without agriculture, he said, are a people without food.
President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions have said repeatedly that the nation is in the grip of a crime wave that requires more arrests and harsher penalties, including for nonviolent crimes like drug possession.
Mr. Trump, in his Inaugural Address in January, spoke of American carnage to describe the nations rate of killings, and Mr.
Sessions has directed prosecutors to more aggressively charge those arrested, while blaming illegal immigration for much of the rise in violence.
Criminologists, police officials and others who study crime say that is untrue.
The Trump administrations tough-on-crime strategy comes after more than a decade of criminal justice reforms at the federal, state and local levels that have proved popular with both liberals and conservatives.
Critics of the administrations criminal justice policies point out that despite the recent increases in violent crime, since 1971 there have been only five years with lower violent crime rates than 2016.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are pockets of increased violence across the country that demand an increased response from all levels of government, said Adam Gelb, director of the public safety project at The Pew Charitable Trusts.
But there is no indication that were in the midst of a crime wave, and no justification to return to the failed policies of the past.
He added: Whats going on?
No one really knows.
And if someone says they do know, you ought to be deeply suspicious.
Its too early to tell anything.
Among the reasons cited for the increase are a profusion of handguns, poverty and social isolation, warring gangs involved in the drug trade, and police officers who are questioning fewer people and making fewer arrests for fear of being criticized by superiors and civil rights groups.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Each hypothesis has its detractors.
But one theory that has gained traction of late is that violence has increased as police legitimacy has been questioned after the fatal police shootings of unarmed African-Americans.
The shootings, many of which have been captured on video over the last three years, have been widely disseminated via the news media and on the internet.
Proponents of the theory maintain that in cities where police departments treat citizens with disrespect and engage in brutality, residents will eventually stop cooperating with the police, which will diminish officers ability to solve crimes.
The result, according to the argument, is that the most violence-prone people in a particular area will be free to continue committing crimes with little fear of arrest.
The question really is, what is different now from 15 years ago in terms of why crime has increased?
said John K. Roman, a criminologist at the University of Chicago.
And the only thing that has changed is the distrust between heavily policed communities and local police.
Its not a coincidence that cities that have crime increases have also had problems between communities and the police.
Among the cities that have experienced recent upticks in murder coupled with questionable police shootings that prompted rioting or other civil disturbances are Chicago, Baltimore, Charlotte, St. Louis and Milwaukee.
But other cities where there have been significant increases in homicides in recent years, including Las Vegas and Memphis, have been largely free of public anger in response to fatal police shootings.
In 2016, Chicago again led the nation in murders with 765  more than double the 335 people killed in New York, which has more than 5.8 million more people than Chicago.
In Chicago and elsewhere, murder victims, as well as those arrested on murder charges, were disproportionately young, African-American and male, according to the F.B.I.
records and data from local law enforcement agencies.
The overwhelming weapon of choice was a firearm, responsible for four of five killings in 2016.
And although large cities  those with populations of more than a million people  saw homicides rise by 20.3 percent, and all violent crime increase by 7.2 percent in 2016, the trend toward greater violence was felt in cities and towns of all sizes.
In towns with populations of fewer than 10,000 people, for instance, murders rose by 8.4 percent, according to the F.B.I.
Current data suggests, however, that violence may be tailing off in 2017, at least moderately.
In an analysis of the nations largest cities, the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law projected that violent crime would drop this year by 0.6 percent and that the overall crime rate would fall by 1.8 percent.
Mr. Engle late on Sunday issued a statement asking people to pray for the victims, their families and the church community as well as the gunman and his family and friends, who are hurting as well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I do not want to be labeled a hero, said Mr. Engle, who the police said sustained a significant injury to his head.
The real heroes are the police, first responders, and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected.
The gunman was identified as Emanuel K. Samson, 25, of Rutherford County, Tenn. After being released from the hospital, he was taken to jail and was to be charged with murder and attempted murder, the police said on Sunday night.
The Justice Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Tennessee have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Samson, a legal resident of the United States who immigrated from Sudan in the 1990s, had attended the church a year or two ago, the police said, but his motive in the shooting was unclear.
No one answered the phone at two numbers associated with his address.
Less than an hour before the shooting, three cryptic posts were made in quick succession on a Facebook page associated with Mr. Samson.
You are more than what they told us, read one posted at 10:18 a.m.

Four minutes later: Become the creator instead of whats created.
Whatever you say, goes.
And finally, at 10:26: Everything youve ever doubted or made to be believe as false, is real.
& vice versa, B.

Mr. Samson pulled up to the church in a blue sport utility vehicle that he left running.
He was wearing a neoprene mask similar to what a skier would wear, Mr. Aaron said.
Because of the mask, churchgoers did not immediately recognize him even though he had previously attended services there, the police said.
Photo

He was carrying two pistols, but it was not clear if he fired both, officials said.
A third pistol and a rifle were found in his S.U.V.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A man who lives near the church said people had come to his home looking for help, so he headed over.
He told the television station WKRN that by the time he arrived, the gunman had shot a woman in the back in the parking lot, and then he turned around, and rolled her over and shot her in the face.
Then he went through the church, and he knocked one older man off a walker on the floor, he added.
The person killed was Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tenn., the police said.
The other victims were identified as Joey Spann, 60, the churchs minister; Peggy Spann, 65, his wife; William Jenkins, 83; Marlene Jenkins, 84; Linda Bush, 68; and Katherine Dickerson, 64.
None of their injuries were life-threatening, the police said in a news release.
Mayor Megan Barry of Nashville said in a statement that the shooting was a terrible tragedy.
My heart aches for the family and friends of the deceased as well as for the wounded victims and their loved ones, she said.
Their lives have been forever changed, as has the life of their faith community at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
In a welcome message on its website, the church described itself as a friendly, Bible-based group of folks who love the Lord and are interested in spreading his word to those who are lost.
Interviews with nursing home representatives, hospital personnel, residents families and government officials, as well as a review of emergency response records, show a preventable descent into the suffocating chaos of that early morning.
The nursing homes state-approved emergency plan was confounded by a foreseeable electrical failure.
The home said its repeated requests for help from state and county officials, and to the power company, yielded no results.
Rick Scott and other state and local officials say they never had any indication from Hollywood Hills that residents were in distress, though records show that a facility that shared the building reported that the conditions were adversely affecting patients.
In any event, the officials and the power company said, it was the nursing homes responsibility to ensure its residents safety.
The local medical examiners office is still investigating the cause and manner of the deaths.
As Irma threatened and then passed, nursing home workers reassured families that their loved ones would be safe.
But fans and portable coolers were not enough for some residents, with one so overcome by the heat that she lay nearly naked on a bed in the second-floor hallway.
When firefighters were finally summoned to rush people out, they said the conditions reminded them of battling a fire.
Somewhere in between, the misery of a nursing home teetering toward tragedy was reported to every official channel, but no attempt was made to transfer the residents to a safer place, or even to the air-conditioned hospital practically next door.
Id had the deepest fear all along of my mother being in a situation, a helpless situation, said Vendetta Craig, whose 87-year-old mother was evacuated from the home and survived.
This is the nightmare that has come to fruition.
Plans Set, Hotlines Ready

It was never supposed to come to that.
Before the hurricane bellowed ashore, Mr. Scott, the governor, held news conference after news conference imploring Floridians to flee while they still could.
To elder-care facilities after the storm, he was even more solicitous: He gave them what he said was his personal cellphone number to call for help.
There were also state and county emergency hotlines to turn to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was not in an area that Broward County had ordered evacuated.
Its emergency management plan called for moving residents to a nearby cluster of senior residences, the Marrinson Group, if the need arose.
As it happened, Marrinson residences ended up without power, too.
More than 164 assisted living facilities and 29 nursing homes did evacuate after the storm, according to the Florida health department.
Photo

Very few nursing homes had generators powerful enough to keep the air-conditioning running.
In 2006, Florida lawmakers considered requiring nursing homes to maintain generators to ensure comfortable temperatures during disasters.
But the industry raised concerns about the cost, according to The Miami Herald, and the bill died.
Last week, after the Hollywood Hills deaths, Mr. Scott announced new rules requiring those generators.
Among the nursing homes of South Florida, Hollywood Hills was not highly regarded.
The 152-bed residence had a below average rating from Medicare, with two out of five stars.
Its most recent health inspection, from March, described residents who were not bathed or groomed properly, food that went uncovered in a soiled kitchen, and flaws in the in-room patient call system.
Its owners, who acquired Hollywood Hills in 2015, were among defendants who paid $15.4 million in 2006 to settle federal and state civil claims that they had paid kickbacks to doctors in exchange for patient admissions.
But the home was right next to the hospital and offered round-the-clock nursing care, two important factors for families choosing a home.
Among those who died were Miguel Franco, 92, who visited his wife every day at the home until he joined her there; Gail Nova, 71, who worked as an X-ray technician until her own health failed; and Betty Hibbard, 84, who, after decades working in real estate, would die in the Memorial emergency room with a 107-degree fever, and with no family to mourn her.
Several family members said in interviews that until Irma, they had seen no major problems with their relatives care, praising the staff as dedicated and hardworking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Ms. Craig dropped by three days before the hurricane made landfall to visit her mother, Edna Jefferson, employees at the home told Ms. Craig that the home had a generator and plenty of extra food, diapers and other supplies.
(After the storm, Hollywood Hills said, it stationed eight spot coolers and more than 20 fans around the home.)
One worker told Ms. Craig, You dont have anything to worry about, were all set.
But the preparations were taking a toll.
Ms. Craig said she passed about 30 nursing assistants who had gathered to hear when they were expected to come in over the following days.
As the meeting broke up, Ms. Craig said, she overheard some of them grumbling about the schedule, saying: How can they do this to us?
and We have families, too.
A few minutes later, Ms. Craig heard the woman who had been conducting the meeting tell another nursing assistant, You have to come in.
If she refused, the woman said, she would make sure the assistant never worked in the field again.
Irmas winds and rain collided with South Florida on Sunday morning.
At 3 p.m., according to the nursing home, the main power supply at Hollywood Hills flickered, but only for a moment.
The transformer that powered the air-conditioning system, however, was dead.
The risk to older and debilitated adults in the aftermath of hurricanes, especially in summer weather, should have been obvious.
As people grow older, bodily systems that fight heat break down.
People with common conditions such as heart trouble and diabetes are more susceptible to heat stroke, and those with dementia may not have the wherewithal to remove sweaters or blankets or to drink more to avoid dehydration.
Drugs often used in nursing homes can also inhibit sweating, the bodys main defense.
Officials said Hollywood Hills had been advised to call 911 if anyone was in trouble.
The home said it did call 911.
But doing so when someone is in extremis may already be too late.
You prevent heat stroke by preventing people from getting so hot that they suffer from it, said Dr. Paul Auerbach, a professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University.
The prevention is essential.
Photo

Dr. George Kuchel, a geriatric medicine specialist and the director of the UConn Center on Aging, said bodily temperatures can spike rapidly.
We see it often, he said.
Theyre able to compensate until a certain point but then are overwhelmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Calls but Little Action

The Monday after the hurricane, the power company said it would repair the transformer that morning, according to a timeline provided by the nursing home.
Then it promised to send someone in the afternoon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More phone calls went out to state health and emergency management officials, and even to the governors cellphone.
A psychiatric hospital in the same building, Larkin Community Hospital Behavioral Health Services, which shared an owner with Hollywood Hills, also called to ask for help.
Our A.C. is down and we do have chillers, but theyre not cooling the building enough, an executive of that facility, Natasha Anderson, said in a call to the states emergency information hotline at 5:37 p.m. on Monday, according to a transcript of the call released by the governors office.
Its like 80 degrees in the building right now with elderly and psychiatric patients.
When Eva Moulder, 64, checked on her 93-year-old mother, Bertha Aguiar, who lived at the home and has Alzheimers, she noticed portable air-conditioners in the hallway.
Her mothers small room on the first floor was a little warm.
She opened a window to let in a breeze.
But the temperature seemed normal, she said.
All around South Florida, however, concern about seniors was rising.
On Tuesday morning, caller after caller reported that nursing homes and retirement communities where thousands of seniors lived had no power.
Century Village had none.
Neither did Wynmoor Village.
Sometime that day, according to records released by the governors office, a note was added to Broward Countys emergency management system: The building that housed Larkin and Hollywood Hills is running on generator power w/o air conditioning.
The conditions were adversely affecting patients, the note said.
The power company had been alerted, the note said, and a representative from the state agency that oversees elder-care facilities was aware.
Voice mail messages left on Mr. Scotts cellphone were transcribed by staff members into emails that were forwarded to other state officials.
But the problems remained unsolved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Broward County, the mayor, Barbara Sharief, said in an interview that Hollywood Hills never told the county there was an emergency.
Accordingly, she said, when she met with power company executives that afternoon, she did not single out the residence when she urged them to move all nursing homes and senior communities to the critical category for restoring power.
The power company told her that prioritizing all such buildings was impossible, she said.
There were just too many.
In a statement, Florida Power & Light officials said they could not say much because of the investigation, but they echoed comments made by state and county officials that customers should call 911 in a life-threatening situation.
Inside the building, the heat was closing in.
Adriana Giraldo came to visit her 89-year-old parents, Libia and Gabriel Giraldo, at 8 that evening.
Upstairs, where residents with dementia and others who could not take care of themselves lived, nothing was normal.
Rolled out of their usual rooms into the hallway, some people lay in their beds in front of a large, ineffectual fan.
They normally wore pajama-like clothing; now they had only light hospital gowns on.
A video Ms. Giraldo shot on her cellphone showed Ms. Hibbard crumpled in motionless misery.
She was naked except for a diaper.
Photo

Ms. Giraldo found her parents, who ultimately survived the ordeal, in bed in their small beige room, wearing socks and blankets, which she hurried to relieve them of.
The window was cracked open, with the floral drapes pulled up to keep the slit clear.
(The nursing home did not explain why the windows were not more open, but some homes restrict openings for residents safety.)
A small fan was running.
Someone brought water when she asked, but there was no ice.
One resident, a 93-year-old man, was taken to the hospital with a fever sometime that day.
But no alarms went off.
That evening, the homes administrator, Jorge Carballo, checked on every resident, one of whom is his father-in-law, according to Hollywood Hills.
Doctors and a physician assistant had made the rounds earlier that day.
No one seemed to be in distress, the home said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was staffed well above state requirements, and residents were monitored by both caregivers and nonclinical individuals, the homes lawyers, Kirsten Ullman and Julie Allison, said in a statement.
There was no indication at this time that a global emergency existed based on overall conditions at Hollywood Hills.
One Death After Another

The calls for rescue, when they finally came, kept coming in gasps all that long and airless night.
Ms. Hibbard, the first person to make it to the emergency room that Wednesday morning, with a diagnosis of heat stroke, was removed from life support and died.
Just minutes after hospital workers had cleaned Room 9 and restocked it with supplies, another patient arrived: Carolyn Eatherly, 78, who, like Ms. Hibbard, had no family.
Her heart had stopped.
Her forehead was purple.
At 4:33 a.m., about half an hour before she was pronounced dead, she had a temperature of 108.3.
By then, other residents were going into cardiac arrest.
At 6 a.m., Hollywood Hillss director of nursing told the staff to move everyone from the hotter second floor to the cooler first floor, according to a court filing by the nursing home contesting the states move to shut it down.
The emergency responders who had seen the residents and felt the heat for themselves decided that everyone had to get out.
We had no idea the extent of what was going on until we literally sent people room to room to check on people, said Dr. Randy Katz, the hospitals chairman of emergency medicine.
Many of the families heard something was wrong for the first time that morning when they turned on their televisions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A friend called Ms. Craig.
I dont want to scare you, she told Ms. Craig, but turn on CNN.
Ms. Craig was thinking, What did I do?
she said in an interview, breaking off to sob.
She blamed herself for putting her mother in the home.
She prayed: Oh God, please dont let my mother be dead.
I just imagined her wanting me there with her, she said, looking at the door, wondering when I was going to get her out of the heat.
When she found her mother in the hospital just before noon, she had a fever of 102 degrees, an IV in each arm and a catheter.
Her hair was matted; a whitish crust, like dried milk, glazed her hairline, her neck and the skin around her ears.
She whimpered, and jumped at Ms. Craigs touch.
She was not the lady that I left on Thursday, Ms. Craig said.
I trusted them.
I trusted them, and they failed my mother.
That morning  three days after Irma, a few hours after Ms. Hibbard died and soon after everyone else was evacuated  someone from the power company arrived at Hollywood Hills to fix the transformer.
It took 15 minutes to get the air-conditioning back on.
Sullivan Cave is the fourth-longest in the state, with 9.63 miles of mapped passage, according to the caves owner, the Indiana Karst Conservancy.
Mr. Cavar became separated from the group at a long passage with a low ceiling called the Backbreaker.
I thought, Im not really enjoying this Backbreaker part, Mr. Cavar told The Indiana Daily Student, the universitys independent student newspaper, which first reported on the episode.
He left his group and tried to meet with the other one but got lost.
He made his way back to the gate at the caves entrance but it was locked.
It was then he realized he was trapped  without food or water.
The clubs leaders, however, were unaware of his whereabouts.
Mr. Cavars parents, who are both associate professors of linguistics at Indiana University, called the school on Tuesday and reported their son missing, said Ryan Piurek, a university spokesman.
Help arrived late Tuesday night.
Mr. Cavar was asleep, curled up at the bottom of the entrance of a cave when the bright lights of rescuers roused him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It took me a while to recognize the cave and to realize where I was, he said in an email.
But as soon as it clicked in my brain, I scrambled up the remainder of the cave as fast as I could and climbed out.
The rest was a blur.
He spoke to his assigned buddy afterward.
According to him, there was a buddy check at the mouth of the cave while the two groups were still separated, Mr. Cavar said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
His buddy told the leaders that he didnt see Mr. Cavar, and it was assumed he was with the other group.
The car-pooling cars got reshuffled, since some people had to leave early, and so no one noticed I was gone, Mr. Cavar said.
On an internal Indiana University website, the club posted a statement that the student newspaper published.
We have a series of rigorous protocols in place that are supposed to prevent situations like this, but they are only effective if followed, it said.
We had a failure in our leadership to closely follow all these safety procedures.
The clubs website lists safety guidelines, including a reminder to always tell someone where youre going and when you expect to return.
Matt Pelsor, chairman of the Central Indiana Grotto, a caving group, described what happened as a series of oversights at a cave that is well known and visited often.
Ive been in this cave many times and there wasnt any reason why this should have happened, he said, adding that the passage where Mr. Cavar got separated from the group is one that is used almost every time there is a trip taken into this cave.
Mr. Piurek, the Indiana University spokesman, called Mr. Cavar brave and resourceful and said the school was relieved he had been found unharmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Jess Deli, central region coordinator with the National Cave Rescue Commission, said she could not comment about what happened to Mr. Cavar but said in general, caving is safe and there are very few rescues that happen across the nation.
Mr. Cavar said on Saturday that he was doing relatively fine and didnt suffer any serious injuries.
I think I just ought to take it easy for a while, he said.
Should the Graham-Cassidy measure die, it would almost surely end the long Republican quest to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Obamas signature domestic achievement.
If the Senate does not vote by Sept. 30, the drive to kill the Affordable Care Act will lose special protections under Senate rules that allow it to pass with a simple majority, rather than the 60 votes necessary to overcome a filibuster.
The Senate Finance Committee has scheduled a hearing on the measure for Monday, and proponents of the repeal bill say they are not giving up.
The deadline is still a week away, said Tommy Binion, who handles government relations for the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy organization.
It is one of the last trains leaving the station, and it is a political imperative for the Republican Party.
I think we are going to go through a couple more loop de loops on this roller coaster before we are all done.
In a series of tweets early Saturday, President Trump, who has embraced the legislation in recent days, appeared to be nurturing hopes that the legislative effort could be kept alive.
He voiced optimism that Mr. Paul would rethink his opposition for the good of the party.
He also indicated that he thought Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, who had wavered publicly about the measure, would support it, though her spokeswoman has said only that the senator was studying the bill.
But at the same time, the president vented his frustration with Mr. McCain, saying he had let his state down and been deceived by Democrats into abandoning a promise.
Patient advocacy groups, who also oppose the Graham-Cassidy measure, say they will continue their fight.
We are certainly not relaxing our efforts, because the vote count is not clear, said Sue Nelson, a vice president of the American Heart Association, which is fighting to preserve the 2010 health law.
We are going full steam ahead with advertising, lobbying and grass-roots efforts to contact members of Congress.
And in an unusual joint statement on Saturday, groups representing doctors, hospitals and health plans urged the Senate to reject the bill.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While we sometimes disagree on important issues in health care, we are in total agreement that Americans deserve a stable health care market that provides access to high-quality care and affordable coverage for all, the groups, which included the American Medical Association and Americas Health Insurance Plans, said.
The bill, they added, does not move us closer to that goal.
Still, the pressure on Republicans to fulfill their promise has been intense  not only from the voters who helped elect them, but also from conservative donors.
Doug Deason, a wealthy Dallas businessman who manages money for his billionaire father, said he had formed a loose-knit coalition of donors who warned senior Republicans  including Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader  that contributions would dry up if Congress did not overhaul the tax code and repeal the Affordable Care Act.
We said were not interested in meeting with him until he gets something done, Mr. Deason said, recounting a telephone conversation he had with Mr. McConnell over the summer.
He needs to lead.
Photo

The drive for repeal of the Affordable Care Act appeared to be dead at the end of July, after Mr. McCains no vote on a skinny repeal measure that was designed purely as a vehicle to permit negotiations with the House, which had passed a much more ambitious bill.
That measure also had critics who called it unworkable and potentially disastrous for the insurance market, but Republican leaders could argue that they never intended to actually enact it.
They were prepared to discard their handiwork as soon as House-Senate negotiations could start.
The talks never did.
It is time to move on, a dejected Mr. McConnell declared at the time.
But behind the scenes, Mr. Graham, whose main expertise is in military affairs, and Mr. Cassidy, a gastroenterologist, had already been working with Rick Santorum, a Republican former senator from Pennsylvania, on a measure that morphed into the Graham-Cassidy bill.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Their collaboration, Mr. Santorum said, grew out of a chance meeting between him and Mr. Graham in the Senate barbershop last spring.
Mr. Santorum had already been working with members of the conservative House Freedom Caucus on a bill to take much of the money spent under the Affordable Care Act and send it to states, with vast discretion over how to use it for health care.
I thought maybe I should bounce this idea off Lindsey and see what he thinks, Mr. Santorum said, adding that he thought the measure could attract the votes of Senate Republican moderates.
Mr. Santorum argues that giving governors control over how to spend health care dollars will create efficiencies in the system, and disputes as a false narrative the idea that states will get less money under the bill.
The bill would require states to organize their own health care systems by 2020  a time frame that many health care experts say is unworkable  and would also give states a way to roll back protections for people with pre-existing conditions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If enacted, the measure would constitute the largest transfer of financial risk from the federal government to the states in our countrys history, said the National Association of Medicaid Directors, whose members run the program for more than 70 million Americans.
Beyond that fast time frame, the bill faces other hurdles, said Mr. Fiedler of the Brookings Institution.
Politically, it almost appears designed to fail, because many more states would lose money under it than would gain.
Many of those losing states are represented by Republican senators whose votes are vital: Rob Portman of Ohio, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, Cory Gardner of Colorado, Mr. McCain and Ms. Collins, to name a few.
And the legislation would set a cap on how much federal support states would receive per person enrolled in the Medicaid program, while health care costs are rising more quickly than the scheduled growth rate for the cap.
One of the objectives that Republicans have come to this debate with is to reduce federal spending on health care, and it is very difficult to do that, ultimately, without reducing the people covered, Mr. Fiedler said.
If youre not making the underlying health care delivery system more efficient, all youre doing is shifting around the costs.
The bill would take money spent under the Affordable Care Act and give it to states in the form of block grants.
State officials, including some who initially supported the Graham-Cassidy bill, were dismayed when they saw how much money their states could lose.
We equalize how much each American receives toward her care, irrespective of where she lives, Mr. Cassidy said.
I dont see why a lower-income American in Mississippi should receive so much less than a lower-income American in Massachusetts.
The bill would, in effect, penalize states that have expanded coverage through Medicaid and the public marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act.
An analysis by the consulting firm Avalere Health found the measure would reduce overall federal funding to states by $215 billion through 2026, and by more than $4 trillion over a 20-year period.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy, unlike some Republicans, have tried to explain and defend their proposal.
But they have been overwhelmed by a tidal wave of criticism from doctors, hospitals, insurers, governors and patients  and even the late-night comedian Jimmy Kimmel.
Critics object to these provisions:

The bill could weaken consumer protections in the Affordable Care Act.
It envisions waivers of federal law that would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to sick people or omit some of the benefits that are now guaranteed, such as maternity care, mental health services or treatment for drug addiction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It would eliminate the federal tax credits and other subsidies that make health insurance more affordable for people with low and moderate incomes, letting states decide how to use the money.
It would end the expansion of Medicaid, which has provided insurance to low-income people in 31 states of all political hues.
The states include Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana, Louisiana, New York and West Virginia.
People are scared, said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio.
They read in the paper, they see on TV, they see online that their insurance might be taken away.
Theres a lot of fear in this society injected by government, and they should be ashamed of themselves.
Water was rushing over the spillway of the Guajataca Dam on Saturday.
In addition to cracking the dam, which had a rupture of 34 inches, the hurricane brought so much water that patches of the spillway had collapsed, said Miguel Abrams, the emergency management director of Quebradillas, a nearby city that was also told to evacuate.
Photo

Theres normally a street there, Gabriel Soto said, referring to a submerged road alongside the dam.
He took pictures of the water before going to check on relatives who live nearby.
The Guajataca Dam is 120 feet high and nearly 1,000 feet long, built in 1929 by the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority.
It lies across the Guajataca River, forming a reservoir that can hold about 11 billion gallons of water that is used for drinking, irrigation and power generation.
This is a serious situation because thats our drinking water, Mr. Abrams said.
Seven or eight cities depend on that lake to drink.
The dam is in the middle of hilly rural neighborhood with curvy roads and steep ridges overlooking the water.
A few miles away a maroon sedan that had been caught mid-mudslide hung precariously above the road.
The swelling waterway was such a spectacle that people gathered at the washed-out road and along the ridge to watch.
The backyards of many houses abutted the ridge, but the residents there said they felt safe because their houses sat a few dozen yards above the water.
Some of the homes looked stately.
Others were submerged.
Water levels have risen significantly, which added to the danger.
Any more rain could worsen an already precarious situation.
Photo

Since the ground is already saturated, we dont know how nature will work, Mr. Abrams said.
This is a lot of water.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But he stressed that the ridge that surrounded the dam was 300 to 500 feet high, which protects the vast majority of the homes nearby.
Only the neighborhoods in lower areas were in danger of flooding.
Mr. Abrams said only about six households were evacuated from Quebradillas, on the other side of the river.
A 2015 study showed that if the dam ever broke, it would be Isabela that flooded.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even as Juan Morales, the public safety director for Isabela, managed a mandatory evacuation of low-lying areas, he sought to calm tensions.
These have been preventive evacuations, he said.
The idea that the dam is collapsing is totally false.
There has not been an evacuation of 70,000 people, also totally false.
Please calm people.
There isnt a breach, and 70,000 people arent going to die.
Mr. Morales was referring to the number of residents that Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said could be affected by a break in the dam.
After the National Weather Service of San Juan announced the breach on Friday afternoon and issued a flash flood warning for Isabela and Quebradillas, the governor, citing the figure, ordered the municipalities to evacuate.
Photo

With communications down, Mr. Rossell went to Isabela himself to get the mayor to evacuate three neighborhoods.
What is the risk?
the governor said at a news conference Saturday, when he again urged area residents to leave.
The risk is life.
Faced with doubt, we want to identify, be able to evacuate and make sure that people are safe.
Experts from the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the National Guard were reviewing the damage and expected to give a report on the risks.
But some of the locals are not waiting for the engineering report.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I packed a winter bag just in case, thats my plan C, Luz Rodrguez Prez, 63, said.
Ms. Rodriguez recalled that the day after Marias torrential rains, she heard crushing sounds from the dam, which is about a half mile from her house.
I started loading up the car, she said.
It was such a loud noise.
Rocks were falling.
She left on Thursday, a day after the hurricane, because of the terrifying sound, but returned the next day.
A few hours later, civil defense authorities were driving around her neighborhood with loudspeakers, announcing a mandatory evacuation.
I have lived in that house for 40 years and have never seen such a thing, she said.
We assume the dam is strong enough, that it was designed for this kind of thing.
It was even reinforced about 35 years ago.
But now?
I wont go back.
Her neighbor Deogracia Romn Gonzlez agreed.
Im too scared, she said from the local elementary school where both women were sheltered.
The water is right up to the street.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with a family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not college degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile without college degrees, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile with college degrees.
Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving into relationships quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
Photo

The singer and producer Pharrell Williams is the latest entertainer to show solidarity with N.F.L.
players protesting President Trumps call to fire players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
At a charity show on Sunday in Charlottesville, Va., where violent demonstrations took place in August, Mr. Williams said, Im in Virginia right now, Im home.
Cant nobody tell me what to do if I want to get on my knees right now.
He then dropped onto both knees.
Mr. Williamss display follows a wave of demonstrations across the country on Sunday as N.F.L.
players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem in defiance of Mr. Trump.
The Take a Knee protest has now grown beyond the sporting world, and entertainers and performers are joining in.
The symbolic action began in August 2016, when Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, knelt to protest police brutality and racial injustice.
Mr. Trump stirred up the issue anew by saying said in a speech on Friday and then in a series of tweets over the weekend that players who do not stand during the anthem should be fired.
In Charlottesville, Mr. Williams paused between songs to say: For the people of my city, for the people of my state, thats what that flag is for.
When I think about the potential of this country and the potential of this state, potential of these people, potential of this amazing university, there is only one word that I feel on the inside.
The artist then began singing his Grammy Award-winning hit Happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Other performers have joined the Take a Knee demonstration.
At the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, Stevie Wonder knelt on stage and said, Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees.
Photo

Mr. Wonder made the gesture again the following night, at the same Charlottesville show where Mr. Williams was performing.
Mr. Wonder was on stage with Dave Matthews Band when he took to two knees, and Dave Matthews joined him in the stance.
Last year, Mr. Kaepernick, then a quarterback for the 49ers, started kneeling during the national anthem to highlight racial injustice, setting off a debate over whether it dishonors the flag.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He left the team this season and has been out of work since.
Many believe hes being shunned by the league.
At the Oakland Coliseum on Saturday, Bruce Maxwell, a catcher for the Athletics, became the first Major League Baseball player to kneel during the anthem.
He said in a statement that he loved his country but wanted to elevate people that dont have a voice.
Harry Edwards, a sports sociologist and professor emeritus at U.C.
Berkeley, said he was unsurprised that the Bay Area is figuring prominently in the sports worlds clash with Mr. Trump.
A fierce critic of the president, Dr. Edwards said the regions diversity fostered creativity and innovation and a heart and mind for struggle.
The reality is that California is a microcosmic, computer-charged model of America, he said.
Everybody came here from somewhere else and we have to make this work.
On Sunday, N.F.L.
players across the country responded to Mr. Trumps remarks with displays of protest.
The Oakland Raiders, which has the leagues only all-black starting offensive line, took the field about 10 miles from the White House for a game against the Washington Redskins.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The entire unit, along with most of their other teammates, knelt or sat during the national anthem.
California Online

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)
Photo

 The Free Speech Week event at Berkeley turned instead into a 25-minute appearance by Milo Yiannopoulos, who spoke briefly and posed for selfies.
The security bill?
$800,000.
[Berkeleyside]

 Words can be like rape  they can destroy you.
Berkeley professors wrestled with the question of limiting free speech on campus.
[The New York Times]

 The University of California is handing out generous pensions as students pay higher tuitions.
A former U.C.
president receives a $357,000 pension after working just seven years.
[Los Angeles Times]

Photo

 An examination of the 2000-mile U.S.-Mexico border found that President Trumps wall proposal could require the seizure of thousands of parcels of private land.
[USA Today]

 Living in a liquefaction zone  Here are some of the Bay Area neighborhoods at most risk in the event of an earthquake.
[SFGate.com]

 For decades, its been part of the California fourth grade curriculum to build replicas of Spanish missions, an assignment critics saw as offensive.
Now, educators are being advised to scrap it.
[Los Angeles Daily News]

Photo

 Orange Countys worst mass killer, Scott Dekraai, was sentenced to life without parole for the murders of eight people at a hair salon in 2011.
[Orange County Register]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Edgar H. Smith Jr. died in a Vacaville prison hospital at 83.
He killed a New Jersey girl, duped the conservative commentator William F. Buckley into supporting his release, then stabbed a woman in San Diego.
[The New York Times]

 As Uber looks to the future of its business under a new C.E.O., the company is investing heavily in food delivery.
[The New York Times]

Photo

 Those leading Silicon Valleys gender equality push said they were astonished that just as the movement was having an impact, it opened up an even more radical mens rights movement.
[The New York Times]

 Photos and video: A spy satellite was launched Saturday night on the Central Coast.
[Los Angeles Daily News]

Coming Up This Week

 The Kern County Fair is being held all week in Bakersfield.
It boasts the largest livestock show in California.
The Los Angeles Philharmonic holds the opening night of its new season at Walt Disney Concert Hall on Tuesday.
Our critic has raved about the orchestra.
A memorial ceremony for fallen firefighters will be held Saturday in Sacramento.
More than 1,300 California firefighters have died in the line of duty since 1850.
San Francisco Fleet Week kicks off Sunday.
The highlight is a three-day air show featuring the Blue Angels.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Finally ...

Photo

California isnt known for dinosaurs.
Thats because it was mostly underwater when the giant creatures roamed the earth.
But there is at least one that we can call our own: a 30-feet long, duck-billed vegetarian called Augustynolophus morrisi (Auggie, for short).
Only two specimens have ever been discovered  both of them in California.
This year, a lawmaker proposed making Augustynolophus Californias official state dinosaur.
Jerry Brown signed the measure into law on Saturday.
Luis M. Chiappe, a paleontologist at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, said the Augustynolophus displayed some complex social behaviors.
They likely traveled in small herds, he said.
And they tended their hatchlings in nests, bringing them food until old enough to venture out on their own.
The two California dinosaurs probably died near the shore, floated out to sea and sank into the sediment.
Over a span of at least 66 million years, tectonic forces pushed their bones to the surface in the hills along the western edge of the San Joaquin Valley, where scientists first discovered them in 1939.
The skeletons are now on display at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County.
California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays.
Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.
The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian  born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano.
He lives in Los Osos.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C.
Berkeley.
Photo

WASHINGTON  President Trump praised Nascar drivers early Monday morning for not protesting the national anthem on Sunday, continuing his weekend tweet storm against the N.F.L.
over the leagues refusal to punish players who knelt or sat during The Star-Spangled Banner.
There appeared to be no protests during the national anthem at a Nascar race on Sunday.
And Mr. Trump took to Twitter to praise drivers and supporters.
Mr. Trump on Sunday called on fans to boycott professional football games until the league did something to stop players from protesting during The Star-Spangled Banner, which is traditionally performed or played at the beginning of athletic events.
The presidents request, however, appeared to empower professional football players and team owners, prompting more protests during the anthem at games throughout the day.
Mr. Trumps decision to take sides on this issue was the latest example of the presidents proclivity for divisiveness.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Friday, the president used an expletive when he referred to players who protest the national anthem by kneeling or sitting  a trend that started last season to protest racial and social injustice.
Mr. Trump was speaking to Republican supporters during a rally for Senator Luther Strange, of Alabama, who is facing a runoff primary election on Tuesday.
The swift punishment by Olympic officials served as a warning to others, the article said.
The action obviously tempered the behavior of Negro American athletes who were involved in victory ceremonies today.
In accepting their medals for their one, two, three sweep of the 400-meter run, Lee Evans, Larry James and Ron Freeman wore black berets, but in no way conducted themselves in a manner to incur official wrath.
Photo

1972: Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett are barred from the Olympics

Four years after the 1968 controversy, a new one arose.
The track athletes Vince Matthews and Wayne Collett, who were also both black, took the podium in Munich, at a time when officials feared a repeat of the Mexico City gesture.
The Timess 2010 obituary for Mr. Collett said that as the anthem was played, the pair did not face the flag.
They stood casually, hands on hips, their jackets unzipped, The Times reported.
They chatted and fidgeted.
The obituary added: When the anthem ended and they climbed off the stand, the crowd booed.
Matthews twirled his medal and Collett gave a black power salute.
The two men were barred from Olympic competition by the International Olympic Committee, an action that The Times described in an editorial as an authoritarian decree.
The editorial continued, Unquestionably, the slouching, defiant posture of the two black athletes did no credit to either, but the persistence they had shown in training up to perfection pitch demonstrated that they had no lack of the Olympic ethic.
1973: Fans on Long Island boo college athletes

Fans at a college track meet at Nassau Coliseum on Long Island went from agitated to furious in January 1973 when at least one athlete lay on the ground during the national anthem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the music played, at least one runner from Eastern Michigan University continued to warm up on the floor, The Times reported.
Another athlete, wearing an Adelphi uniform, was also observed reclining on the ground.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Several fans began shouting, the article said, and after the anthem, most of the 8,551 spectators joined in the booing.
The article continued: Some chanted Throw them out!
Others shouted racial epithets at the athletes, who were black.
Photo

Later, the Eastern Michigan runner would say: I was just stretching out, preparing for my race.
I didnt mean any protest, and Im sorry I caused such a commotion.
But the booing continued, and some officials threatened to walk off the floor if Eastern Michigan was allowed to compete.
The team was disqualified.
The Times quoted Bob Parks, the Eastern Michigan coach, who is white and wears his hair very closely cropped, as saying: Im as conservative as anyone around.
I stand and sing for the anthem.
I think the kids should stand, too, and Im going to give them hell.
But why disqualify the whole team?
Parks said he was surprised by the reaction of the crowd.
At our place, when they play The Star-Spangled Banner at basketball games, a lot of the black students dont stand, he said.
I guess things are different here.
1973: Madison Square Garden drops the anthem, then reverses its decision

Amid growing controversy over whether it should be played at sports events, a front-page article in The Times on Jan. 16, 1973, reported, the national anthem has been dropped from the Olympic Invitational track and field meet at Madison Square Garden.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times quoted the meets director as saying that playing the anthem was not obligatory because its purpose and relevance to sports events has never been established.
A day later, the front page told a different story: Garden to Hear Anthem at Track Meet, After All.
The reversal came after the United States Olympic Committee was deluged with irate calls from all over the country, The Times reported.
Photo

1996: The N.B.A.
suspends Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf

In March 1996, the National Basketball Association suspended Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets for his refusal to stand during the national anthem.
Mr. Abdul-Rauf, who converted to Islam in 1991, said he did not believe in standing for any nationalistic ideology.
The real problem, according to an editorial in The Times, was not the wisdom or accuracy of Mr. Abdul-Raufs view that the flag is a symbol of oppression, or that Islamic teachings require that he not stand for the anthem.
It was the N.B.A.s blindness to the fact that trying to force participation in a patriotic exercise undermines democratic values.
The presidents scolding of prominent black athletes touched off a furious national debate.
Reactions among football fans were wildly divergent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In his brief time as president, Mr. Trump has put his views of American institutions ahead of national unity, our chief White House correspondent writes.
Last-ditch push on health care.
With the Senate expected to vote this week on a Republican proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act, Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy shifted more money to Alaska and Maine, whose senators have expressed reservations about the measure.
Senator John McCain announced his opposition to the bill on Friday, and it remained unclear if the changes would be enough to persuade other skeptics, including Senators Susan Collins and Ted Cruz, to support the package.
A win in Germany, with a caveat.
Angela Merkel won a fourth term as chancellor on Sunday, but her mandate is diminished by the rise of Alternative for Germany, a nationalist party that got about 13 percent of the vote, earning representation in Parliament.
Photo

Ms. Merkel had leadership thrust on her 12 years ago, but she grew into the role, our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe writes.
A snap vote in Japan.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe called an early election for next month, seizing on anxiety about North Korea and weakness in the opposition.
The Daily, your audio news report.
In todays show, we discuss how President Trump has forced professional athletes to become more political.
Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.
Business

 Silicon Valleys push for gender equality has led to a backlash.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 An analysis of 90 years of trading suggests most stocks arent good investments.
Chinas consumers  once famous for saving rather than spending  are piling on debt.
U.S. stocks were mixed on Friday.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Recipe of the day: Avoid the deep fryer.
Bake your chicken tenders.
Use your smartphone to explore a new city like a local.
Action  not fretting  is an excellent career and business strategy.
Over the Weekend

 At the inaugural Laver Cup, Team Europe defeated Team World, as Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer won their first doubles match.
The quality of the spectacle and the depth of the emotions were real in Prague, our tennis columnist writes.
Photo

 The Pentagon is testing lasers and nets to combat Islamic State drones.
Separately, U.S. airstrikes in Libya killed 17 Islamic State militants.
Melania Trump traveled abroad without President Trump for the first time as first lady, attending an athletic competition in Toronto for wounded service members and veterans.
Kingsman: The Golden Circle was No.
1 at the North American box office, collecting $39 million, a bit less than expected.
The Lego Ninjago Movie slumped.
Noteworthy

 Keeping Indian folk painting alive.
Video

In todays 360 video, a Madhubani painter explains traditional art forms and how she plans to pass on her skills.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 A chilling reality for refugees.
Our videographer takes us inside a camp in Bangladesh for Rohingya Muslims who fled what U.N. officials have called textbook ethnic cleansing in Myanmar.
Bye-bye, Iraq!
That was a chant among Iraqi Kurds at a rally in Erbil, the regional capital, before a referendum on independence today.
Nearly every major nearby power opposes the vote, except Israel.
Photo

 Birds, beware.
Scientists have developed a healthy respect for praying mantises, acrobatic hunters with 3-D vision and voracious appetites.
(Tip: Have breakfast first.)
The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Quotation of the day.
Sometimes when there are shortages, the price of plantain goes up from $1 to $1.25.
This time, there wont be any price increase: There wont be any product.
Jos A. Rivera, a farmer in Puerto Rico who said Hurricane Maria had knocked down almost all of his 14,000 plantain trees and destroyed his other crops.
Back Story

If youre looking for the origins of one of our eras more giddily narcissistic trends, look to Australia.
When Oxford Dictionaries crowned selfie its word of the year in 2013 (defeating twerk), its editors noted that the first known use of the term was in an Australian Broadcasting Corporation forum 15 years ago this month.
Photo

A tipsy young man had posted a photograph of his mouth, seeking medical advice after tripping at a party.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I had a hole about 1 cm long right through my bottom lip, wrote Hopey.
And sorry about the focus, it was a selfie.
It was a very Australian turn of phrase.
In Australia, a barbecue is a barbie.
Your work colleague Mr. Fitzgerald is more often than not Fitzy at the pub.
Anna Wierzbicka, a linguistics professor at the Australian National University, has said the countrys love affair with such shortenings reflects cherished ideals like mateship, humor, informality and a dislike for long words.
Although given that Hopeys full name was Nathan Hope, maybe a casual tone is more important than brevity.
Adam Baidawi contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning.
Browse through past briefings here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
Check out our full range of free newsletters here.
For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
Photo

City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Canada, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.
Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company does not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Photo

Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Whatever it takes, he said.
Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really have no other course than to try and win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Its a hearty plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
The allure of elite commandos parachuting in to tackle "mission impossible" began with two operations -- one a huge success and the other a massive failure.
Jed Shugerman, a law professor at Fordham, wrote a blog post urging Mr. Tillman to issue a correction.
One might expect, Professor Shugerman wrote, that when a brief before a court contains significant factual errors or misleading interpretations of evidence, the authors of that brief will offer to correct their briefs or retract the sections if they are no longer supported by the evidence.
In another blog post, Brianne J. Gorod, a lawyer with the Constitutional Accountability Center, which represents lawmakers suing Mr. Trump, said Mr. Tillmans account was not accurate, not even remotely so.
Five legal historians, including Professor Shugerman, filed their own friend-of-the-court brief.
They said Mr. Tillmans had incorrectly described the evidence in a footnote in his brief.
Mr. Tillman took none of this lightly.
In a sworn statement last week, he repeated his original position.
I stand entirely behind the above footnote: behind every sentence, every phrase, every word and every syllable, he wrote.
I made no mistake, intentional or inadvertent.
I retract nothing, and I do not intend to retract anything.
Mr. Tillman, who is represented by Josh Blackman, an energetic law professor and litigator, rounded up declarations from experts in founding-era documents and on Hamilton.
They agreed that the document said to contradict Mr. Tillmans account was not signed by Hamilton and was prepared after his death.
I asked Mr. Tillmans critics for their reactions.
Professor Shugerman responded with a public and personal apology.
I am satisfied that Tillman and Blackman have provided support for their perspective on these documents, he wrote on his blog.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I was wrong to suggest that Tillman misused sources, and I was wrong to question his credibility, Professor Shugerman wrote.
Tillman is a diligent, creative, intelligent and learned scholar who deserved more respect than the way I handled these exchanges.
Im sincerely sorry for any trouble or hardship I caused for Mr. Tillman and his family.
Professor Shugermans fellow historians  John Mikhail, Jack Rakove, Gautham Rao and Simon Stern  said they were still studying the matter.
Ms. Gorod did not offer a direct response.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While there is a fascinating academic discussion to be had about the provenance of these particular documents, and that specific discussion will surely continue, its ultimately immaterial to whats going on in the courts because at the end of the day, it is clear that the foreign emoluments clause applies to the president, she said in statement.
Even the Department of Justice agrees.
She is right that the cases are very unlikely to turn on Mr. Tillmans arguments.
All of the parties, including Mr. Trumps lawyers, agree that the foreign emoluments clause applies to the president.
The Justice Department instead argued that Mr. Trump had not violated the clause because he had taken no money in exchange for his official actions.
Mr. Tillman said the clause does not apply to the president in the first place, pointing to a 1793 document submitted by Hamilton, who was the secretary of the Treasury.
The Senate had asked him to list every person holding any civil office or employment under the United States.
That language tracks but is a little broader than what is in the emoluments clause, which was not the subject of the request.
In Hamiltons response, which the editors of his papers say he signed, he did not list the president or any other elected official.
That is some evidence, though more than a little indirect, about what one of the framers of the Constitution thought about how broadly the emoluments clause swept.
In his brief, Mr. Tillman noted but discounted a contrary piece of evidence.
An entirely different document (but bearing a similar name), he wrote, did include the president.
It was undated, not signed by Hamilton and was drafted by an unknown Senate functionary.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Tillmans critics said that second document was the crucial one, adding that it bore both a date and Hamiltons signature.
In court papers Mr. Tillman sought to file last week, he argued that the second document was a scriveners copy  the antebellum equivalent of a photocopy  which was not signed by Hamilton.
Indeed, Mr. Tillman said, internal evidence in the second document indicated that it was drafted long after Hamiltons death in 1804.
Judge George B. Daniels of the Federal District Court in Manhattan promptly rejected Mr. Tillmans request to file more papers, which, after all, concerned an issue that is not disputed between the parties.
Mr. Tillmans plea, though, was probably addressed to an audience wider than a single judge.
It has yielded a gracious apology, and it has demonstrated a couple of things.
The lawsuits are bitterly contested because they are important.
And, whatever the value of using indirect evidence to interpret the Constitution, the demands of historical research and vigorous legal advocacy can tug in different directions.
But in a stunning operation that began late on July 3, 1976, Israeli commandos swooped in.
They killed the hijackers and dozens of Ugandan soldiers, gathered the hostages and flew them to safety.
The raid was carried out with near perfection, though it cost the lives of four hostages and of the commando leader, Lt. Col. Yonatan Netanyahu, the older brother of the current Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.
A new era in counterterrorism had dawned.
Joshua Shani, a retired Israeli brigadier general, was there, having flown the first C-130 Hercules cargo plane to land at Entebbe.
He told Retro Report: It was like the whole world say, Wow, they have chutzpah, these guys.
They are damn good.
They were so good that the United States tried something similar in April 1980 to end a hostage crisis in Iran that traumatized this country.
Fifty-two United States diplomats and other citizens had been taken captive five months earlier under a new Iranian theocracy hostile to America.
From the get-go, this rescue mission, code-named Eagle Claw, would not be an easy assignment for a Delta Force commando unit still in its infancy.
The only difference between this and the Alamo is Davy Crockett didnt have to fight his way in, said Mr. Ishimoto, who was an intelligence officer on the Delta Force raid.
Almost everything that could have gone wrong did.
Two American helicopters were disabled by severe dust storms over Iran.
Separately, a third one broke down.
Still another crashed into a tanker aircraft; eight servicemen were killed.
It was a disaster that left America humiliated  and left the hostages stuck for nine more months.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But failure can be a powerful teacher.
Eagle Claw was.
What emerged within a few years was a well-trained, disciplined force of special operators groomed for counterterrorism, hostage rescue and other demanding missions.
The force today is perhaps 10 times as big as it was in 1980, when its numbers, Mr. Ishimoto said, were between 6,000 and 8,000.
As for successes, one need look no further than the 2011 SEALs raid on a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where the Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was found and killed.
With Americans weary of war without end since Sept. 11, 2001, President Obama withdrew most conventional soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan.
At the same time, he turned the Joint Special Operations Command into a dray horse.
Its members are just about everywhere: Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Pakistan, you name it.
Their impact can be deadly.
But their footprint is lighter, and less costly, than that of a fully decked-out Army operation.
This commando force plainly appeals to Mr. Trump, who has shown scant faith in soft power, the use of diplomacy and humanitarian example to win friends and influence nations.
His budget proposals have included many billions more for the Defense Department and billions less for the State Department and the Agency for International Development.
In his first half-year in office, military special operators were sent on about five times as many lethal missions in what for the United States are non-battlefield countries  Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia  as there had been during Mr. Obamas final six months.
Relying on them so heavily has a price.
Though they make up roughly 5 percent of the total armed forces, they have accounted for at least half of the nations combat deaths since 2015.
The risks were evident mere days into the Trump presidency when a member of the SEALs was killed on a flawed night mission in Yemen that also left more than a dozen civilians dead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its easy to romanticize commandos.
Just ask any Hollywood director.
But they are not supermen.
Even Israeli forces have lost their post-Entebbe glow, with blemished missions in Lebanon and Gaza that led to their own men and innocent civilians being killed.
Some military experts worry that even though the American teams also have chutzpah and are damn good, they are being asked to do too much too often.
These guys truly are amazing warriors, Russell D. Howard, a retired brigadier general who was a special forces commander, told The Cipher Brief, a website focused on security issues.
But theyre more than that.
Theyre smart, flexible, adaptable and unafraid.
The problem, General Howard said, is that the guys are still deployed all the time.
These guys are a national treasure, he said.
In my day, it cost an average of $1 million to train a special forces soldier.
Now it probably costs closer to $1.5 million, and you dont waste that asset.
You use them judiciously when you really need them.
Photo

LONDON  The Swiss engineering firm ABB Group said on Monday that it would buy General Electrics business that provides circuit breakers and other electrical equipment for industry for $2.6 billion, as the American giant looks for ways to shake up its operations.
The deal is the latest move by General Electric as it seeks to refocus on its roots.
The company had expanded into a sprawling conglomerate but its once-huge financial business threatened its survival after the 2008 economic crisis, and it has been selling off an array of units since.
has also come under pressure from the activist hedge fund Trian Fund Management, led by the billionaire investor Nelson Peltz, to reduce costs.
The companys new chief executive, John L. Flannery, has pledged to accelerate cost cutting.
Mr. Flannery replaced Jeffrey R. Immelt in the role last month.
Indeed, further sales could be in the offing  Mr. Flannery is conducting a review of each of G.E.s businesses, and is expected to present his plans in November.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

ABB, which is based in Zurich, can use the deal to broaden its electrification business globally, especially in North America.
The unit it is buying, GE Industrial Solutions, provides circuit breakers, transformers and power systems equipment for industrial operations like data centers and oil or gas installations.
Photo

Jared Kushner, President Trumps son-in-law and a White House senior adviser, has used his personal email account to conduct official government business, his lawyer acknowledged on Sunday.
The lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said that Mr. Kushner, using the personal account, had received or sent fewer than a hundred emails involving his White House colleagues over the first seven months of the administration.
Mr. Lowell said the emails were all forwarded to Mr. Kushners official account, creating a record.
The use of the personal account was first reported by Politico.
Mr. Kushner is not the only official in the Trump White House who has been found to have used private email or text messaging for government business, a situation that has raised questions about the administrations preservation of records.
But Mr. Kushner is the person closest to the president to have his personal email use become public.
As a candidate, Mr. Trump aggressively attacked Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, for her use of private email while she was secretary of state.
Some of Mr. Trumps allies outside the White House are urging him to press for a prosecution of Mrs. Clinton, even though an F.B.I.
investigation into her handling of classified information has been closed.
At Mr. Trumps rallies, his supporters still break into cheers of lock her up!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a statement, Mr. Lowell said: Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business.
Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account.
Photo

Nigel Farage, the right-wing British politician and outspoken supporter of President Trump, plans to campaign in Alabama on Monday against the presidents preferred candidate in a crucial Republican Senate runoff.
Mr. Farages endorsement of Roy Moore, a former State Supreme Court justice who leads in the polls before the election on Tuesday, lines up another anti-establishment voice in opposition to Mr. Trump.
He plans to speak at a rally for Mr. Moore that will also include Stephen K. Bannon, the former chief strategist to Mr. Trump.
Im honored to have the endorsement of Brexit leader @Nigel_Farage, wholl join us in Fairhope on Monday, Mr. Moore said on Twitter.
Photo

Mr. Farage, the former U.K.
Independence Party leader who helped lead the Brexit movement, campaigned for Mr. Trump in the presidential election and was the first foreign politician to meet with him after he won.
As president-elect, Mr. Trump suggested that Britain appoint Mr. Farage as its ambassador to the United States, an idea that was quickly dismissed by the British government.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Alabama race to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions pits Mr. Moore, an evangelical favorite, against Luther Strange, who has the support of Mr. Trump and Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader.
Strange was appointed to the Senate this year after Mr.
Sessions left.
The Trump credo seems to be so many people to attack, so little time, said Peter Wehner, a former strategic adviser to President George W. Bush and now a senior fellow at the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
Garry Wills, a historian who has studied other presidents, said, No one else fires off omnidirectional personal insults in such fire-wheel fashion.
The exceptions seem to be President Vladimir V. Putin in Russia and white supremacists in Charlottesville, Va.
I dont think his intention is to be divisive, said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax Media and a friend of Mr. Trumps.
He wants to be viewed as strong but also someone who speaks the truth as he sees it and not afraid what the establishment says about it.
He enjoys a fight and a challenge, so that may play into some of this.
My own view, he added, is that he should adapt Floyd Mayweathers boxing style  hold most of his punches for big opportunities, and tire out your opponents for a win in later rounds.
Intentional or not, many of his most divisive comments charge directly into one of the most delicate issues in American life, race, whether it be his attacks on illegal immigrants, his both sides equivocation after the racial violence in Charlottesville or now his blasts at African-American football and basketball stars like Mr. Curry, the Golden State Warriors player who said he did not want to visit the White House for a traditional champions ceremony.
Speaking with reporters before boarding Air Force One on Sunday, Mr. Trump insisted race was not the issue.
This has nothing to do with race, he said.
I never said anything about race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
This has to do with respect for our country and respect for our flag.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
To his supporters, Mr. Trumps approach does not necessarily seem polarizing so much as animating.
In an us-and-them world, he is speaking to a part of the country that has long felt ostracized by those who seem to have everything, whether it be Washington politicians or high-paid sports stars.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These attacks sound divisive to the people outside that us  and Trumps us is a lot smaller than most presidents  but not to those inside it, said Nicole Hemmer, a scholar of conservatism and social movements at the University of Virginias Miller Center.
Theres a larger politics of grievance at work, she added, and the bases desire for Trump to be tough and combative is one seen in other presidents, if less often and openly.
Richard M. Nixon appealed to the silent majority, and Bill Clinton castigated an African-American rap star named Sister Souljah to reach out to disaffected white voters who had fled the Democratic Party.
Mr. Wehner, however, said Mr. Trump seemed to draw a kind of psychic energy from conflict.
Weve never had a president who so relishes producing animosity and hate among Americans, and who does it so consistently, so gleefully and so intentionally, he said.
And when there are no obvious targets, he added, Mr. Trump goes in search of them.
He seems to have a psychological need to keep everyone around him on edge and at each others throats.
Open appeals to division, while increasingly common on the campaign trail, have been rarer in the modern White House.
Ronald Reagan presented a sunny optimistic view of America as a shining city on a hill.
The first George Bush called for a kinder, gentler America.
Mr. Clinton vowed to repair the breach of partisanship.
The younger Mr. Bush promised to be a uniter, not a divider.
Barack Obama declared that we are not a collection of red states and blue states; we are the United States of America.
None of them fully lived up to those ideals, and at times each of them appealed to division in the conduct of his presidency or campaigns.
The elder Mr. Bushs election was remembered for the racially charged debate over the furloughed murderer Willie Horton.
The younger Mr. Bushs critics complained that he impugned their patriotism for criticizing his national security policies, while Mr. Obamas opponents complained that he regularly questioned their motives and talked down to them.
In 2015, Gallup found that the second Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama were the most polarizing presidents in modern times, as measured by the gap between how Republicans and Democrats saw them.
At that point, Mr. Obama held six of the top 10 years of that polarization index and Mr. Bush the other four.
But neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Obama overtly aspired to division on a routine basis.
A Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 66 percent of Americans believe Mr. Trump has done more to divide the country than unite it; at their peaks, no more than 55 percent said that about Mr. Obama or Mr. Bush.
Mr. Trump seems unbothered by that and in that sense may be a president who suits his era better than his predecessors.
He is a divisive president for a divisive time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We know previous presidents pursued political strategies that exploited racial divisions in our country, said Ellen Fitzpatrick, a history professor at the University of New Hampshire.
We know Nixon had his enemies list.
But the public whipping up of this sentiment in mass campaign-style rallies with the crass language Trump used in Huntsville has no precedent I am aware of.
H. W. Brands, a biographer of Reagan and other presidents at the University of Texas at Austin, said other presidents were tactically divisive.
Andrew Jackson pilloried the moneyed classes, while Theodore Roosevelt inveighed against the malefactors of great wealth.
Franklin D. Roosevelt blamed the stock market crash on the money changers and said he welcomed their hatred of him.
Trumps divisiveness looks different, Mr. Brands said.
It appears more impulsive and more a matter of simply stirring the pot.
It makes sense from the perspective of one who has long sought to attract media attention.
There doesnt seem to be any larger purpose.
I really cant see what he hopes to win by taking on the N.F.L.
For Mr. Trump, whose efforts on health care, infrastructure improvements and tax reform are gaining little steam, the new order is a third attempt to make good on his campaign promise to respond to terrorist threats by tightening entry at the nations borders.
In December 2015, he called for a complete ban on travel to the United States by Muslims until our countrys representatives can figure out what the hell is going on, though he later denied that he had sought a religious test on travel.
Officials described the new order as a much more targeted effort than the presidents earlier one.
Each of the countries will be under its own set of travel restrictions, though in most cases citizens of the countries will be unable to emigrate to the United States permanently and most will be barred from coming to work, study or vacation in America.
Iran, for example, will still be able to send its citizens on student exchanges, though such visitors will be subject to enhanced screening.
Certain government officials of Venezuela and their families will be barred from visiting the United States.
Somalis will no longer be allowed to emigrate to the United States, but may visit with extra screening.
Administration officials said that the new rules would not apply to legal permanent residents of the United States, and that visitors who currently hold valid visas from the countries listed will not have their visas revoked.
That means that students already in the United States can finish their studies and employees of businesses in the United States who are from the targeted countries may stay for as long as their existing visas remain valid.
People whose visas expire will be subject to the travel ban, officials said.
People seeking access to the United States as refugees are not covered by the proclamation, officials said.
Entry of refugees is currently limited by the presidents original travel ban, and officials said the administration was preparing new rules for refugees that should be announced within days.
Reaction to the presidents announcement was swift, as some critics of the original travel ban expressed similar concerns about the presidents latest effort to bar potential terrorists and criminals.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Six of President Trumps targeted countries are Muslim.
The fact that Trump has added North Korea  with few visitors to the U.S.  and a few government officials from Venezuela doesnt obfuscate the real fact that the administrations order is still a Muslim ban, said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, Mr. Romero said.
But administration officials  who have long rejected the characterization of the presidents travel restrictions as a Muslim ban,  noted that the latest effort also applies to non-Muslim countries and was based on a rigorous evaluation of each countrys security capabilities.
One official who briefed reporters on Sunday evening insisted that the presidents travel restrictions were never, ever, ever based on race, religion or creed.
In a statement released by the White House, Mr. Trump defended the new proclamation, saying that we cannot afford to continue the failed policies of the past, which present an unacceptable danger to our country.
My highest obligation is to ensure the safety and security of the American people, and in issuing this new travel order, I am fulfilling that sacred obligation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The presidents announcement comes after the administration conducted what it described as an in-depth, worldwide, 90-day review of the security measures in place in other countries to prevent terrorists or criminals from entering the United States by applying to emigrate or to visit with a tourist, work or education visa.
Mr. Trump called for the review  and a temporary ban on travel from several majority-Muslim countries  just days after being inaugurated.
But a fierce legal challenge to the travel ban delayed the security assessment until the summer.
Officials said last week that most nations already met new, minimum standards for identifying and screening potential travelers and sharing investigative information with law enforcement agencies in the United States.
Some nations that initially fell short of those standards agreed to implement changes to avoid travel restrictions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But several countries either failed to meet those standards or flatly refused, officials said.
Homeland Security officials recommended to Mr. Trump in a report last week that he impose the new travel restrictions on the residents of those countries.
The presidents 15-page proclamation accepted the recommendations, spelling them out in detail.
The proclamation imposes the most severe restrictions on Syria and North Korea, which Mr. Trump says fail to cooperate with the United States in any respect.
All citizens from those countries will be denied visas to enter the United States once the proclamation goes into effect.
Most citizens of Chad, Libya and Yemen will be blocked from emigrating to or visiting the United States because the countries do not have the technical capability to identify and screen their travelers, and in many cases have terrorist networks in their countries, officials said.
Officials said Somalia did, barely, meet the security standards set by the United States, but will still be subject to a ban on emigration and heightened scrutiny for travel because it is a safe haven for terrorists.
Officials said that Iran was uncooperative and would be subject to a broad travel ban, but Mr. Trump made an exception for student and exchange visas.
In Venezuela, Mr. Trump restricted only the travel of government officials and their families, writing in the proclamation that the ban was focused on that group because they were responsible for the identified inadequacies in sharing information about travelers.
Mr. Trumps original travel ban prevented all travel from citizens of seven countries: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
Iraq was later removed from a second version of the travel ban in March after American officials said it had improved its ability to screen passengers and share information with the United States.
In the new security review, Sudan was deemed to meet the security standards and was removed from the list of countries with travel restrictions.
Homeland Security officials had described the previous ban as a temporary pause on travel from certain countries to allow for the review of security measures.
By contrast, the new travel restrictions will be in place indefinitely, officials said.
The United States will consider lifting the restrictions on those countries affected only if they meet the new minimum standards, they said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The presidents announcement could have a dramatic impact on the legal challenge to the previous travel ban, which is under consideration by the Supreme Court after the administration appealed lower court rulings that said the ban was unconstitutional and a breach of Mr. Trumps authority.
Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for Oct. 10, but legal experts said that parts of the case could be moot because of the presidents decision to end that travel ban.
Other parts of the case, including restrictions on refugees coming into the United States, were not affected by Sundays announcement.
A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said Sunday that the solicitor general would be submitting an update to the Supreme Court about the latest travel restrictions on Sunday evening.
The spokeswoman said the administration would continue to defend the presidents lawful authority to issue his executive order.
But lawyers who filed challenges to the presidents previous travel ban left open the possibility that they would also challenge the new restrictions.
This is an apparent effort to paper over the original sin of the Muslim ban, especially when just last week Trump said he wanted a larger, tougher, more specific ban, Mr. Romero said.
The original travel ban was met with angry denunciations from civil rights activists and others who said the president was violating the Constitution by specifically targeting Muslims.
They also criticized Mr. Trumps administration for abruptly imposing the ban, causing confusion at airports as visitors were turned away by border agents who had not been briefed on the new policy.
Administration officials said on Friday that the new policy was the result of months of deliberation that included the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the White House and other agencies involved in security and the border.
Veterans of diplomacy and national security and specialists on North Korea fear that, whatever their intended result, Mr. Trumps increasingly bellicose threats and public insults of the famously thin-skinned Mr. Kim could cause the United States to careen into a nuclear confrontation driven by personal animosity and bravado.
It does matter, because you dont want to get to a situation where North Korea fundamentally miscalculates that an attack is coming, said Sue Mi Terry, a former intelligence and National Security Council specialist who is now a senior adviser for Korea at Bower Group Asia.
It could lead us to stumble into a war that nobody wants.
And while his bombast may be a thrill to Mr. Trumps core supporters, there is evidence that the broader American public does not trust the president to deal with North Korea, and is deeply opposed to the kind of pre-emptive military strike he has seemed eager to threaten.
A new Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 37 percent of adults trust Mr. Trump a great deal or a good amount to responsibly handle the situation with North Korea, while 42 percent trust him not at all.
By contrast, 72 percent trust American military leaders, who have largely avoided combative language on North Korea even as they have said publicly that a military option is possible.
Two-thirds of respondents opposed launching a pre-emptive attack against North Korea, while about three-quarters supported using tougher economic sanctions on Pyongyang as a way of pressuring the country to surrender its nuclear arsenal.
Some senior administration officials acknowledge privately that Mr. Trumps rhetoric on North Korea is not helpful, although they question whether it will alter the discussion, given how far Mr. Kim has come in his quest to develop a nuclear weapon that could reach the United States.
The three current and retired generals advising Mr. Trump  Jim Mattis, the defense secretary; Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, his national security adviser; and John F. Kelly, his chief of staff  as well as Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, have all chosen their words on North Korea more carefully, emphasizing the role of diplomacy and the grave stakes of any military confrontation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

All three of the generals fully realize the carnage that would result from a war on the Korean Peninsula, James G. Stavridis, the former NATO commander and current dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, said on Sunday.
Knowing each of them personally, I am certain they are counseling operational caution, measured public commentary and building a coalition approach to dealing with Kim Jong-un, Mr. Stavridis, a retired admiral, said in an email.
But controlling President Trump seems incredibly difficult.
Lets hope they are not engaged in mission impossible, because the stakes are so high.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Christopher R. Hill, a former ambassador to South Korea who served Republican and Democratic presidents, argued that the comments could badly undercut Mr. Trumps ability to find a peaceful solution to the dispute, playing into Mr. Kims characterization of the United States as an evil nation bent on North Koreas destruction and relieving pressure on the Chinese to do more to curb Pyongyang.
The comments give the world the sense that he is increasingly unhinged and unreliable, said Mr. Hill, the dean of the Josef Korbel School of International Studies at the University of Denver.
Mr. Hill, who as envoy to South Korea under George W. Bush was the last American to hold formal talks with the government in Pyongyang, said he and Condoleezza Rice, then the secretary of state, routinely advised Mr. Bush to avoid the personal invectives, because they never help.
My sense from four years of those talks is that getting personal is not helpful, Mr. Hill said.
Who could be telling Trump otherwise?
Yet current and former senior officials said it was clear that Mr. Trump would continue his brinkmanship, particularly his belligerent tweets, no matter what his advisers do or say.
One former administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal policy workings, said nobody, including Mr. Kelly, could control the presidents social media utterances, despite what his military advisers thought about them.
The tweets most likely have forced Mr. Mattis and Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as well as other national security officials, to spend a significant amount of time on the phone reassuring counterparts about Mr. Trumps intentions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Last week, Mr. Trump coined his mocking nickname for Mr. Kim on Twitter and insisted on including it in his maiden speech to the United Nations General Assembly.
Rocket Man, he said, is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime, which may leave the United States no choice than to totally destroy North Korea.
The speech drew audible gasps from the diplomats and national security officials in the General Assembly hall, as well as an angry response from Mr. Kim himself, who called Mr. Trump a mentally deranged U.S. dotard.
A few days later, a capacity crowd at the Von Braun Center in Huntsville delighted in Mr. Trumps warlike language, cheering as he renewed his threats and added a dig at Mr. Kims stature.
He should have been handled a long time ago, Mr. Trump said, but Im going to handle it because we have to handle it: Little Rocket Man.
Im sure hes listening, because he watches every word, Mr. Trump added.
Hes watching us like he never watched anybody before, that I can tell you.
The president appeared to be right about that.
On Saturday, Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho of North Korea said in a speech at the United Nations that the presidents threats were making our rockets visit to the entire U.S. mainland inevitable all the more.
That is what appeared to have prompted the nighttime tweet from Mr. Trump, who spent the weekend at his Bedminster, N.J., golf resort.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, Mr. Trump wrote of Mr. Ri, they wont be around much longer!
Ms. Terry said such menacing talk could put Mr. Trump into a box.
Trump is limiting our own options by behaving and speaking like this, because now we either have to act, which really is unthinkable, or were going to look like a paper tiger because we cant act, she said.
Internationally, we look foolish, and now he has made it extremely personal, so Kim Jong-un cannot back down.
Its reckless.
Some of Mr. Trumps allies argue that his behavior is strategic, a way of telegraphing to North Korea  and to its primary patron, China  that the United States is taking a tougher line under this administration.
There may be wisdom, they argue, in spurring fear and confusion in the mind of a leader who frequently relies on both.
Were dealing with somebody that well figure out, Mr. Trump said at the rally on Friday.
He may be smart, he may be strategic  and he may be totally crazy.
Stephanie Grisham, Mrs. Trumps spokeswoman, said in an email that Mrs. Trump had been delayed in hiring a policy director because she was working to ensure that the person is a good fit for the entire team.
Mrs. Trump, 47, is far from the first person in the role to take time adjusting to the unwritten rules and expectations.
Her predecessor, Michelle Obama, was less than enthused about life in the East Wing.
Such spousal melancholy dates back to the countrys infancy: Louisa Adams, the London-born wife of President John Quincy Adams, spent much of her time in the White House in the 1820s depressed and binge-eating chocolates, according to historical accounts.
Things havent gotten that bad for Mrs. Trump.
At the opening ceremony of the Invictus Games, the Slovenian-born first lady cheered for stars and stripes in an arena filled with maple leaf flags.
The celebration, complete with dancing children and giant puppets, had a lighter air than her speech to the United Nations on Wednesday, in which she warned about the dangers to children posed by cyberbullying and drugs.
We must turn our focus right now to the message and content they are exposed to on a daily basis through social media, Mrs. Trump said to a luncheon group, the bullying, the experience online and in person and the growing global epidemic of drug addiction and drug overdose.
With her East Wing lacking policy muscle, Mrs. Trump has joined West Wing-led initiatives, including plans to combat the opioid crisis.
She continues to receive briefings from the Federal Emergency Management Agency on hurricane relief, Ms. Grisham said.
Photo

While Mrs. Trump has flouted some norms by, for instance, wearing stiletto heels while traveling to a hurricane disaster zone, she has brought some conventionality to a White House that often eschews it.
In August, Mrs. Trump condemned the violence at a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., even as her husband made equivocal statements about the racists who were involved.
As Mrs. Trump picks up speed, she has brought a friend and adviser closer to the formal operations of the East Wing.
Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, a former director of events at Vogue who worked on the inaugural committee, is now consulting for the first ladys office, the White House confirmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Wolkoff, who had previously advised Mrs. Trump on everything from event planning to wardrobe choices, helped prepare Mrs. Trumps United Nations speech, along with others, according to Ms. Grisham.
While there certainly is an adjustment period, that is to be expected, Ms. Grisham said of Mrs. Trump.
She is staying true to herself and knows exactly what she wants to achieve as first lady.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
She is not one to seek out attention or photo ops, Ms. Grisham added.
She is focused on being a mom, wife, and serving the American people.
Anita McBride, who served as Laura Bushs chief of staff, said it would take time before Mrs. Trump might be ready to introduce a full-fledged plan to the public.
Ms. McBride said it took Mrs. Obama over a year to roll out Lets Move!, her signature program to prevent childhood obesity.
Mrs. Bush, she said, took about that much time organizing the first National Book Festival.
This is the period of time where you do see a number of first ladies in recent history really begin to roll out their interests, Ms. McBride said.
There is some regularity to the timing of what she is doing.
Ms. McBride, who attended a dinner that the first lady hosted for the White House Historical Association at the White House this month, said Mrs. Trump was embracing some of the more traditional expectations that accompany living in the White House, and had grown to appreciate the potential power of her platform over time.
Still, Ms. McBride said, given the presidents penchant for taunting tweets, the first lady is likely to face an uphill climb on combating cyberbullying.
I do think she will need to be prepared for not being taken seriously in this because of some of the language and rhetoric that comes from her husband, Ms. McBride said.
Youre not going to win everybody over.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether or not her initiatives at home have a lasting effect, Mrs. Trump, who speaks multiple languages, is proving to be an asset on the world stage.
She has accompanied Mr. Trump on his trips abroad, serving as a buffer in awkward handshake encounters with world leaders, and notably eliciting a smile from a sullen-looking Pope Francis.
Patti Solis Doyle, a Democratic strategist who was an aide to Hillary Clinton when she was first lady, sees Mrs. Trumps travels as helpful to Mr. Trumps image.
I think, she said, that Melanias husband needs a little good will around the world.
President Trump authorized the airstrikes based on the recommendation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, an administration official said on Sunday.
The Africa Command statement noted that the strikes, which military officials said separately were carried out by armed Reaper drones flying from a base in Sicily, were conducted in coordination with the government of Prime Minister Fayez Serraj of Libya.
Reda Eissa, a spokesman for the coalition of militias backed by Mr. Serrajs Government of National Accord, said he had no information about Fridays airstrikes.
He referred queries to the governments defense ministry, which did not respond to requests for comment.
Libya analysts said the area where the strikes took place is controlled by another major power broker in Libyas fractious political landscape, Gen. Khalifa Haftar, a former Libyan Army officer who was a major figure in the 2011 rebellion against the former Libyan dictator, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
The American airstrikes come at a particularly chaotic moment for Libya.
In the east, General Haftar has strengthened his position, receiving a stream of Western ministers, including the British foreign secretary, Boris Johnson.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Elsewhere, the Italian government has struck deals with smuggling militias to cut human trafficking to Europe.
The capital, Tripoli, has seen sporadic violence as rival groups, including the United Nations-backed unity government, jostle for supremacy.
The American strikes took place in a desert region south of the oil crescent, where key ports changed hands between rival groups several times last spring.
The strikes are the logical consequence to the change of the tactics of I.S., said Col. Wolfgang Pusztai, a former Austrian defense attach to Libya who follows the country closely, referring to the Islamic State.
This is to keep the pressure on them, as none of the Libyans considers the fight against I.S.
as a priority.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Wednesday, in the latest attempt to revive Libyas stuttering peace efforts, the United Nations envoy Ghassan Salam said he would seek to renegotiate a national political agreement signed in Morocco in December 2015.
That announcement, at the United Nations in New York, acknowledged the chronic weakness of the unity government, which has dismally failed to assert its authority beyond Tripoli, yet retains the backing of the international community.
Mr. Salam said the United Nations was ready to facilitate a security dialogue with Libyas many armed factions with a view to drawing them into the political process.
American military officials said on Sunday that Fridays strikes were conducted under Obama-era rules designed to protect civilians outside active war zones, like Iraq and Afghanistan.
Those rules  called the Presidential Policy Guidance, or P.P.G.
are in the process of being replaced by the Trump administration to streamline the process for approving drone strikes and commando raids in areas outside traditional war zones, including Yemen, Somalia and Libya.
Issued by Mr. Obama in 2013, those rules require near certainty that a bombing will kill no civilians, and the target must pose a threat to Americans  not just to American interests.
The new procedures awaiting Mr. Trumps approval would lay the groundwork for expanding possible counterterrorism missions in countries where Islamic militants are active but the United States has not previously tried to kill or capture them.
For the more than 500 other airstrikes in Libya this year and last year, the Obama White House authorized an exemption to its rules and effectively made Libya a fourth combat zone, along with Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan.
It was not immediately clear why the Trump administration did not temporarily turn back on the exemption from the Obama-era rules.
President Donald Trump asserted today that his criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem "has nothing to do with race."
Rather, the president said the issue is "respect for our country, flag and national anthem."
Trump appeared to be responding to critics who say his slam of players who kneel in protest is about race.
The president sparked the controversy at a rally Friday night when he declared that football team owners should fire players who kneel during the anthem.
Ron Sachs/CNP/Polaris

"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out,'" the president said.
in Huntsville, Alabama, before a largely white crowd.
The comments spurred a strong reaction by NFL players and owners, with many players kneeling or locking arms during the "Star-Spangled Banner" on Sunday as a rebuke to the president.
Kneeling during the anthem was started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in the 2016 preseason, who said he was protesting against the treatment of blacks in the United States.
Kaepernick is black.
The president on Monday continued hammering his argument that kneeling during the national anthem is unpatriotic.
Marvin Gentry/Reuters

"It is about respect for our country, flag and national anthem," he tweeted.
"NFL must respect this!"
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

He also returned to his claim that NFL fans don't support the player protests.
Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total).
These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

Trump also sought to contrast the NFL with NASCAR, whose fans he said wouldn't "put up with disrespecting our country or our flag."
Several NASCAR team owners and executives said Sunday that they would not want anyone in their organization to protest, The Associated Press reported.
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans.
They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

But one of NASCAR's biggest stars staked out a different position than Trump.
Dale Earnhardt Jr. tweeted Monday morning that all Americans have a right to protest peacefully.
Meghan Linsey, the singer performing The Star-Spangled Banner" at Sundays Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans game in Nashville, took a knee on a field with no players present after finishing her rendition of the national anthem.
Linsey, a former contestant on "The Voice," was receiving rapturous applause for her performance at at Nissan Stadium when she chose to bend down on one knee -- a move that has become political symbol over the past year and particularly over the weekend after President Trump called for the firing of NFL players who kneel in protest during the anthem.
This afternoon, both the Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans made separate announcements that there will be nobody from either team on the sidelines for the anthem.
"As a team, we wanted to be unified in our actions today.
The players jointly decided this was the best course of action.
Our commitment to the military and our community is resolute and the absence of our team for the national anthem shouldn't be misconstrued as unpatriotic," the Titan's statement said.
The Seahawks players statement said, "As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing work towards equality and justice for all."
The protests come in response to the president's comments at a rally Friday night in Alabama when he said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out."
Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman and soon-to-be ex-husband of top Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin, broke down in federal court today as he was sentenced to 21 months in prison for sending obscene material to a 15-year-old high school student in North Carolina.
Weiner, 53, who pleaded guilty last May to a single count of transferring obscene material to a minor, was also sentenced to three years of supervised release.
Elder Ordonez/Splash News

Aaron Katersky/ABC News

When Judge Denise Cote announced her decision, Weiner, who was seeking probation, dropped his head and started to cry.
"This is a serious crime that deserves serious punishment," Cote said in court.
Federal prosecutors had asked a judge to send Weiner to prison for 21 to 27 months.
Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said in a statement today, "Anthony Weiner, a former Congressman and candidate for Mayor, asked a girl who he knew to be 15 years old to display her naked body and engage in sexually explicit behavior for him online.
Justice demands that this type of conduct be prosecuted and punished with time in prison.
Today, Anthony Weiner received a just sentence that was appropriate for his crime."
Richard Drew/AP Photo

Weiner sobbed audibly in court for a few minutes after the proceeding ended.
He did not speak as he left the courthouse.
Today's sentencing marks the end of a six-year saga during which Weiner resigned from Congress, unsuccessfully ran for mayor of New York and separated from Abedin, who filed for divorce the day he was indicted.
Weiner and Abedin are parents to a young son.
Weiner's crime may have played a role in Clinton's loss to Donald Trump.
When the FBI found Abedin's email on his computer, then-FBI Director James Comey revisited the investigation into Clinton's use of a private server.
Jefferson Siegel/The Daily News via AP

Defense attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said today that Weiner's "repeated acts of self destruction are not those of a scheming criminal."
Weiner had asked for probation, citing his continual recovery from an illness that cost him his marriage and career.
A term of imprisonment would bring Anthonys indisputably successful treatment for the sickness underlying his crime to an immediate and complete halt and separate Anthony from the son who has motivated his recovery, his defense attorneys wrote.
In an emotional statement in May, Weiner said he "compulsively sought attention from women," engaging many of them in sexual and non-sexual conversations.
He said his behavior started when he entered Congress and it continued through the first six months of 2016.
"These destructive impulses brought great devastation to my family and friends, and destroyed my life's dream of public service," he said.
Weiner said he "came to grips for the first time with the depths of my sickness" last fall and entered "intensive treatment."
"I have a sickness," Weiner said, "but I do not have an excuse."
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was the latest friend of President Donald Trump's to speak out against his comments this weekend about NFL players taking a knee during the national anthem.
Trump called for the NFL to "fire or suspend" those who kneel during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
"If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!"
Trump tweeted on Sunday, which followed similar comments he made Friday at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Brady, who has said that he's friends with Trump, spoke out Monday, saying, "I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive."
After Trump's comments, players on various teams took a knee together on Sunday or stayed in the locker room during the national anthem.
Brady, 40, was interviewed on WEEI's "Kirk and Callahan" show Monday morning, one day after he linked arms with his fellow Patriots to show unity.
"Like I said, I just want to support my teammates," he said of his actions.
"I am never one to say, 'Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.'
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust ...
I have been blessed to be in locker rooms with guys all over the United States over the course of my career ...
The one thing about football is it brings so many guys together  guys you would never have the opportunity to be around."
Brady said what makes a football team so special is that "we're all different."
"I think everyone has the right to do whatever they want to do.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about," he continued.
Brady followed in the footsteps of another Trump friend, Patriots Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft, who released a statement Sunday saying how "deeply disappointed" he was "by the tone of the comments made by the president."
"I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics," Kraft said.
The taking of a knee by NFL players began last year when now former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick declined to stand during the national anthem before a preseason game against San Diego.
He later explained to reporters that he was doing so to peacefully protest until there is "significant change" on racial oppression in this country.
NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. said Monday he supported the NFL players and owners who protested on Sunday in response to President Donald Trump's criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem.
Earnhardt wrote on Twitter that all Americans are granted the rights to "peaceful protests" before quoting former President John F. Kennedy.
"Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable," Earnhardt wrote.
All Americans R granted rights 2 peaceful protests

Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable-JFK  Dale Earnhardt Jr. (@DaleJr) September 25, 2017

Earnhardt posted the tweet on Monday less than 30 minutes after Trump tweeted that he was "so proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans" for not "disrespecting" the country and the flag.
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans.
They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

At a rally in Alabama last Friday, Trump suggested that NFL owners should fire players who protest the national anthem.
"Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now?'"
the president said.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

In response, NFL owners took a unified stand against Trump's comments at the start of several games on Sunday.
Several NASCAR team owners and executives said Sunday that they would not want anyone in their organization to protest, The Associated Press reported.
Among them was Richard Childress -- the longtime team owner for Earnhardt's father -- who said protesting would "get you a ride on a Greyhound bus," according to the AP.
"Anybody that works for me should respect the country we live in," Childress said.
"So many people gave their lives for it.
This is America."
Earnhardt has spoken out against the president's policies in the past.
In January, the legendary NASCAR driver had a Twitter conversation with a fan in response to Trump's immigration ban, saying that "America is created by immigrants."
"[My] fam immigrated from Germany in 1700s escaping religious persecution," Earnhardt said.
Sean Gardner/Getty Images

In April, Earnhardt, 42, announced that he would retire at the end of the year after driving for 18 seasons and competing in more than 600 races.
A Baltimore Ravens player who locked arms with teammates in a game Sunday in response to President Donald Trump's criticism of players who kneel in protest during the national anthem said Trump's remarks were a "direct attack on our brotherhood."
Ben Watson, tight end for the Baltimore Ravens, was among the players who stood arm in arm during the "Star-Spangled Banner" ahead of the team's game against the Jacksonville Jaguars in London on Sunday.
Watson told ABC News "Good Morning America" co-anchor Michael Strahan today that the protest by Ravens players was "organic."
"When we got on the field, some guys kneeled, some guys decided to kneel that didn't before," he said.
"Some guys locked arms."
"I locked arms," he said.
Players and team owners across the league responded yesterday and over the weekend to Trump's slamming players such as former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick for kneeling in protest during the national anthem.
Kaepernick, who began the silent action in the 2016 preseason, told the media he was protesting against the treatment of blacks in the United States.
Trump at a rally Friday night in Huntsville, Alabama, said teams should fire players who kneel during the anthem.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out,'" the president said.
Watson said Trump's words "cut deep" for the Ravens.
"We felt as many others did that this was a direct attack on our brotherhood," he told Strahan.
ABC News

Watson said he hadn't previously agreed with Kaepernick's decision to take a knee during the national anthem, but he said the president's remarks suggested players don't have the right to speak out on important issues.
"There was a tremendous amount of emotion and a tremendous amount of hurt" over Trump's words, Watson said.
"Obviously, the name-calling is something we don't [stand] for but even to imply that we don't have the right to express ourselves in that way is something that we really took to heart."
Watson added that he has long been concerned about the same issues that prompted Kaepernick's protest.
"I haven't kneeled, but the reasons [Kaepernick] decided to kneel -- the police brutality the excessive force, as he said, the impression of different people of color -- those are all concerns of mine since even before he decided to kneel... my feelings have not changed about those issues."
A 22-year-old church usher was heralded as a hero after he confronted a masked gunman who opened fire at a Tennessee parish on Sunday as services were ending.
Police said Robert Engle, an usher at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Nashville, Tennessee, engaged in a struggle with the suspected shooter, Emanual Samson, 25, after he allegedly opened fire at the church on Sunday morning, killing one woman and wounding six others.
"He's the hero, Metro Nashville Police Chief Steve Anderson said at a news conference on Sunday.
He's the person who stopped this madness."
Samson allegedly entered the churchs parking lot around 11 a.m. and fatally shot 39-year-old Melanie Smith as she walked to her car after service, police said.
The suspect is believed to have been there for at least several minutes before church service let out, according to police.
Samson, who was wearing a neoprene half-mask, then entered the church and began to shoot "indiscriminately," wounding six people who were later treated for non-life-threatening injuries, according to police.
Engle confronted the gunman in an effort to keep him from shooting more people and was pistol-whipped in the process, police said, adding that the suspect accidentally shot himself in the chest while struggling with Engle.
The Associated Press

Engle eventually ran out to his car to retrieve his own pistol, which he used to hold the suspect at gunpoint until police arrived, officials said.
The young usher, who said he has attended the church since he was a small child, does not consider himself a hero.
I do not want to be labeled a hero," Engle said in a statement Sunday.
"The real heroes are the police, first responders and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected.
He also asked for people to pray for those who were affected by the shooting.
"I ask everyone to pray for the victims, family members of the victims, our church community.
Please pray for healing, Engle said in another statement.
Also, please pray for the shooter, the shooters family and friends.
They are hurting as well.
One witness, Minerva Rosa, said the situation could have been worse if Engle had not intervened.
"He's amazing," Rosa told reporters on Sunday.
"Without him, I think it could be worse.
He was the hero today."
BREAKING: Samson will be charged with one count of murder tonight.
Multiple additional charges will be placed later.
pic.twitter.com/RBNv1qY3yk  Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) September 24, 2017

Rosa, who has been a member of the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ for eight years, said the suspect was silent as he fired shots inside the church.
She said she heard the pastor shout "Run!
Gunshots!"
as the gunman made his way down the aisle.
Engle's grandmother, 69-year-old Rheta Engle, told a local newspaper that she was proud of him.
"Thats like him.
Hes just someone who cares about a lot of people.
He has all their feelings at heart," she told the Tennessean on Sunday afternoon.
"It would make any parent, grandparent very, very proud of him."
Blake Langford, Robert Engle's friend, described him as a gentle giant.
He's just a great guy, Langford told the Tennessean.
Just one of the kindest human beings you'll ever meet.
Robert Engle was released from a local hospital on Sunday night and is back home with his family, according to local news outlets.
Samson, who police said had attended the church within the past two years, was treated at a local hospital for a gunshot wound and is expected to be charged with one count of murder, with additional charges pending, according to police.
The motive for the shooting is unclear.
The Memphis FBI Field Office's Nashville Resident Agency, the Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Tennessee have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
When New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft came out publicly against President Trump over the ongoing spat over NFL players kneeling during the "Star-Spangled Banner" ahead of games, the man who previously called the president a very good friend was not alone, as multiple owners are beginning to speak out on the issue.
"There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics," Kraft said in a statement tweeted by the Patriots.
The champion team's CEO came out against Trump after the president made comments during a rally in Huntsville, Alabama on Friday, saying, "Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now?'"
"You know, some owner ... is going to say, 'That guy who disrespects our flag, hes fired,'" the president said to thunderous applause and cheers.
Kraft made it clear on Sunday he disagrees with the 45th president.
Rather, he supports players' rights "to peacefully [effect] social change."
"I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal," the statement said.
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful, and care deeply about our community, and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is impactful."
The billionaires' beef comes only months after the Patriots made a formal visit to the White House in April, during which Kraft called Trump a "very good friend" and paralleled his presidential run with the team's historic comeback win in this years Super Bowl over the Atlanta Falcons.
Trump, he said, "preserved" over 16 career politicians, and faced incredible odds.
Statement from #Patriots Chairman & CEO Robert Kraft: pic.twitter.com/f5DJeK0Woj  New England Patriots (@Patriots) September 24, 2017

Kraft's comments came shortly after Trump on Sunday morning had turned his attention to NFL fans in his feud with the league over players who kneel in protest during the national anthem, saying many people should "stay away" from the games "because they love our country."
The president, who already disinvited NBA superstar Stephen Curry and the champion Golden State Warriors team from being feted at the White House, also suggested on Twitter that if NFL fans refuse to go to games because of these protests, "you will see change fast."
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Trump's tweets came just a couple of hours before a series of NFL games scheduled for the day kicked off.
Across the country and in the U.K., many NFL owners like Kraft backed their players -- including owners of the Atlanta Falcons, Detroit Lions, and Miami Dolphins.
Some were locked in arms with their team players and coaches as the "Star-Spangled Banner" performed, later expressing support to fight racial injustice and push back against the president's fiery rhetoric from Friday.
Jeffrey Lurie was one owner who on Sunday stood shoulder to shoulder with his Philadelphia Eagles players as they raised fists raised into the air as the "Star-Spangled Banner" played.
Matt Rourke/AP

In a statement, the owner backed his players for their "courage, character, and commitment" into bettering communities and "to call attention to injustice."
"Having spoken with our players, I can attest to the great respect they have for our national anthem and all it represents," he said in the statement.
"We at the Philadelphia Eagles firmly believe that in this difficult time of division and conflict, it is more important than ever for football to be a great unifier."
Although it appeared no team member kneeled today, Jets owner Christopher Johnson, brother of Woody Johnson, who is on hiatus from the team since Trump tapped him to be the country's ambassador to the U.K., was spotted locking arms with his players during the national anthem.
In a statement tweeted on the team's official Twitter page, Johnson wrote, "It was an honor and a privilege to stand arm-in-arm unified with our players during today's National Anthem."
Al Bello/Getty Images

In Detroit, Lions owner Martha Ford stood with her three daughters on the sideline next to her coach Jim Caldwell.
Fans created an orchestra of boos as eight Lions players including Ameer Abdullah, Tahir Whitehead and other members of the defensive line kneeled and locked arms.
Across the field, Atlanta Falcons owner Arthur Blank locked arms with receiver Julio Jones and running back Devonta Freeman as the national anthem was sung by Rico Lavelle, who at the end of it bent right knee and raised his right fist, clutching the microphone.
Near the 50-yard line, Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross locked arms with safety Reshad Jones and center Mike Pouncey before they battled the Jets.
The day before, Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross also on Saturday did not refer to the president directly, but said in a statement the country "needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness."
Statement from Miami Dolphins Owner and Founder of Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality (RISE) Stephen Ross.
pic.twitter.com/6W3mXwJO6M  Miami Dolphins (@MiamiDolphins) September 23, 2017

Also locking arms with players during the protest over the U.S. national anthem was Jacksonville Jaguars owner Shahid Khan.
Khan, in a statement, called Trumps remarks "divisive and contentious," and declared his support for his players after meeting with some of the captains before the game.
Paul Childs/Action Images via Reuters

Khan said he was "honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem."
The owner added that the team and the NFL "reflects our nation," and said that it was personally important "to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation."
The Pittsburgh Steelers' coach Mike Tomlin decided to skip the anthem altogether today.
"We're not participating in the anthem today," Tomlin said, adding that the action was "not to be disrespectful to the anthem" but to remove the team "from this circumstance."
"People shouldn't have to choose" whether to kneel or stand during the anthem, he said.
"If a guy feels a need to do something he should not be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
"So we're not participating today," he said.
"That's our decision."
At Soldier Field, Coach Tomlin was spotted with other coaches on the sideline, but most of the players remained in the locker room as expected.
Kiichiro Sato/AP

Once the national anthem commenced, quarterback Ben Roethlisberger walked out of the tunnel, as did left tackle Alejandro Villanueva, who served as an Army ranger in Afghanistan.
He held a hand over his heart as he marched onto the field.
Pittsburgh is a team whose ownership switched generations after the late Dan Rooney -- who was appointed by President Obama to serve as ambassador to Ireland from 2009, before resigning in 2012 -- passed away in April.
His son, Art, has since taken over as the team's top executive.
San Francisco 49ers CEO Jed York weighed in Saturday afternoon calling the president's comments "callous and offensive" and "contradictory to this great country stands for."
Meanwhile, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell was also in Trump's crosshairs for speaking out against the president's condemnation of kneeling players and statement that team owners should fire those players.
Goodell is "trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country," Trump tweeted.
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Goodell did not mention the president by name in his statement earlier today.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities."
NFL players across the league either kneeled or sat on the bench during the national anthem before Sunday's games.
The silent protest that has caught fire in the past week was started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
Kaepernick, who has yet to be signed by an NFL team, began kneeling in the preseason in 2016 as a sign of protest over the treatment of blacks in the U.S.
The president of the NFL Players Union, which represents current and former players, released a statement on Saturday: "The balance between the rights of every citizen in our great country gets crossed when someone is told to just 'shut up and play.'"
Union President DeMaurice Smith acknowledged in his statement that the peaceful demonstrations by some of our players" haven't been universally supported, but "have generated a wide array of responses."
But, he added, "Those opinions are protected speech and a freedom that has been paid for by the sacrifice of men and women throughout history ... No man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights."
NFL players, teams and owners across the league responded Sunday to President Trump's criticism of players kneeling in protest during the national anthem, with some kneeling, others locking arms and still others choosing not to participate in the national anthem ceremony at all.
As the "Star-Spangled Banner" played at Soldier Field in Chicago for the noon game between the Chicago Bears and the Steelers, the Pittsburgh team's sideline was virtually empty.
Steelers coach Mike Tomlin told a CBS Sports reporter prior to the game that his team would stay in the locker room during the anthem.
"We're not participating in the anthem today," Tomlin said, adding that the action was "not to be disrespectful to the anthem" but to remove the team "from this circumstance."
"People shouldn't have to choose" whether to kneel or stand during the anthem, he said.
"If a guy feels a need to do something he should not be separated from his teammate who chooses not to."
Kiichiro Sato/AP

"So we're not participating today," he said.
"That's our decision."
During the anthem, several Steelers coaches were on the sidelines and one player, former Army Ranger Alejandro Villaneuva, stood near the tunnel to the team's locker room, ESPN reported.
The decision by most Steelers not to participate was among the many varied responses today and over the weekend to Trump's calling for the firing of NFL players who kneel in protest during the anthem.
This afternoon, both the Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans, who are playing each other today, made separate announcements that there will be nobody from either team on the sidelines for the anthem.
"As a team, we wanted to be unified in our actions today.
The players jointly decided this was the best course of action.
Our commitment to the military and our community is resolute and the absence of our team for the national anthem shouldn't be misconstrued as unpatriotic," the Titan's statement said.
The Seahawks players statement said, "As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing work towards equality and justice for all."
Earlier Sunday, a host of players in London took a knee and locked arms together as the United States national anthem was performed.
Paul Childs/Action Images via Reuters

Aaron Rodgers and Tom Brady

The Green Bay Packers' quarterback, Aaron Rodgers, posted on Instagram that he supports fellow NFL players and coaches and included a photo of him kneeling with three other teammates, with the hashtags: "#unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love"

Underneath the post, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady appeared to endorse Rogers' stance with a raised-fist emoji.
#unity #brotherhood #family #dedication #love # A post shared by Aaron Rodgers (@aaronrodgers12) on Sep 24, 2017 at 6:34am PDT

Brady also posted on Instagram a supportive message to all NFL players.
Arm-in-arm at a game across the Atlantic

A game played at Wembley Stadium in London was a matchup between the Jacksonville Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens.
Among the players and coaches locking arms with players during the protest over the U.S. national anthem was Jaguars owner Shahid Khan.
Jaguars tight end Mercedes Lewis and linebackers Telvin Smith and Dante Fowler as well as defensive tackle Calais Campbell and defensive end Yannick Ngakoue and cornerback Jalen Ramsey all took knees as did Ravens linebacker C.J.
Mosley, wide receiver Mike Wallace and safety Lardarius Webb.
Matt Dunham/AP

The ones who didn't kneel stood arm-in-arm throughout the playing of both country's anthems.
The team's official Twitter account posted a one-word tweet "Unity" to capture the moment.
Khan himself released a statement calling Trump remarks as "divisive and contentious" and declared his support for his players after meeting with some of them before the game.
He said he was "honored to be arm in arm with them, their teammates and our coaches during our anthem."
The owner added that the team and the NFL "reflects our nation" said that it was personally important "to show the world that even if we may differ at times, we can and should be united in the effort to become better as people and a nation."
The anthem protest in Britain had dozens of players on both sides of the field including Baltimore Ravens kneeling when The Star-Spangled Banner was performed but standing when Britain's national anthem "God Save the Queen," witnesses and The Associated Press reported.
Several Jaguars and Ravens players at Wembley kneel for the US National anthem, stand for the British national anthem.
Henry Hodgson (@nflukhank) September 24, 2017

Trump's view

The protests come in response to the president's comments at a rally Friday night in Alabama when he said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out."
Tim Ireland/AP

The president then appeared to channel his signature command from when he hosted the reality television show "The Apprentice."
"He's fired.
He's fired."
On Sunday, before NFL games kicked off, the president's tweets reinforced his anti-anthem protest message.
He also suggested that if fans refuse to go to games due to the protests, "you will see change fast."
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

On Saturday night, the president went after NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell for criticizing Trump's condemnation of kneeling players.
Tim Ireland/AP

Goodell is "trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country," Trump tweeted.
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

NFL to air 'unity' commercial

The NFL commissioner did not mention the president by name in his statement Saturday.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities," Goodell said.
The NFL also announced that it would re-air its commercial from February, "Inside These Lines," promoting societal unity and tolerance.
"It reflects the unifying force of our great game, our players & clubs," Goodell said on Twitter.
We will air this Unity spot in tonights game.
It reflects the unifying force of our great game, our players & clubs https://t.co/koMm8q0vio  Roger Goodell (@nflcommish) September 24, 2017

In the commercial spot, Academy Award-winning actor Forrest Whittaker narrates as various lines are chalked on the grass.
Just as Jacksonville Jaguars defensive end Eli Ankou, who is black, lifts opposing Indianapolis Colts quarterback Andrew Luck, who is white, off the turf, Whittaker softly states: We may have our differences but recognize theres more that unites us.
Police have identified the gunman who shot a woman dead and injured six other churchgoers after he opened fire Sunday morning at a Tennessee church as services were ending.
The shooting at Burnett's Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch, Tennessee, started in the church's parking lot, according to police and the Nashville Fire Department.
Nashville Metro police spokesman Don Aaron said emergency calls came in around 11:15 a.m. as services were letting out.
The gunman, identified by police as 25-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson, arrived in the parking lot and first fatally fired at 39-year-old Melanie Smith, who was walking to her car, police said.
Samson was wearing a neoprene half-mask and drove an SUV, Aaron said.
After gunning down the woman in the parking lot, Samson went inside through the rear of the church and began indiscriminately shooting at people, police said, wounding six people.
A church usher, identified as 22-year-old Robert Engle, ran up and confronted Samson and was subsequently pistol-whipped by him, police said.
Samson was at some point shot in the left pectoral, though police still dont know if the gun discharged on its own during Engles struggle with the suspect.
At that point, Engle went to his car, where he got his weapon to confront the shooter again.
Police said Samson had attended the church within the past two years.
He has been released from a local hospital and will be charged with one count of murder, with additional charges to come.
BREAKING: Samson will be charged with one count of murder tonight.
Multiple additional charges will be placed later.
pic.twitter.com/RBNv1qY3yk  Metro Nashville PD (@MNPDNashville) September 24, 2017

The Memphis FBI Field Office's Nashville Resident Agency, the Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Tennessee have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting, the U.S.
Attorneys Office said Sunday.
All seven of the wounded were taken to area hospitals.
Five of them were sent to Vanderbilt Medical Center and one to Skyline Medical Center.
Vanderbilt Medical Center said in a statement after the shooting that its emergency medicine physicians and trauma center surgeons are caring for two critically injured gunshot victims, and another four individuals who are currently in stable condition.
Nashville Christian School released a statement on Sunday, saying, As you may already know, one of our Bible teachers, Joey Spann, and his wife were both injured in the church shooting this morning at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch.
We do not have any additional information at this time but want to boldly ask you to pray.
Please lift up Coach Joey Spann and his wife Peggy and all who have been injured or impacted by this tragic event.
Nashville Mayor Megan Barry released a statement on Sunday: This is a terrible tragedy for our city, she said.
My heart aches for the family and friends of the deceased as well as for the wounded victims and their loved ones.
Their lives have been forever changed, as has the life of their faith community at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
My administration, especially the Metro Nashville Police Department, will continue to work with community members to stop crime before it starts, encourage peaceful conflict resolution, and promote non-violence, she added.
ABC News' Ben Stein contributed to this report.
President Trump has responded to players from multiple NFL teams kneeling or locking arms on Sunday, tweeting that taking a knee is not acceptable, and suggested the act of protest will lead to bad ratings for the leagues games.
Great solidarity for our National Anthem and for our Country.
Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Meanwhile, while one Pittsburgh team did not come out of the locker room for the anthem on Sunday, another has accepted the president's invitation to join him at the White House.
Trump tweeted that the Stanley Cup Champion Pittsburgh Penguins will be joining him at the White House, but did not provide a date.
"Great team!"
he added.
The Pittsburgh Steelers on Sunday chose not to participate in the national anthem ceremony at all at Soldier Field in Chicago for their noon game against the Chicago Bears.
Elsewhere, owners from the Atlanta Falcons, Detroit Lions, New York Jets, Miami Dolphins, Philadelphia Eagles and Jacksonville Jaguars have now joined players on the field in solidarity.
One owner, Robert Kraft of the New England Patriots, criticized Trump, who he has previously called a very good friend, saying he is "deeply disappointed" in the presidents comments condemning NFL players who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
"There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics," Kraft said in a statement tweeted by the Patriots.
The team's CEO added that he supports players' rights "to peacefully [effect] social change."
"I think our political leaders could learn a lot from the lessons of teamwork and the importance of working together toward a common goal," the statement said.
"Our players are intelligent, thoughtful, and care deeply about our community and I support their right to peacefully affect social change and raise awareness in a manner that they feel is impactful."
The public disagreement comes only months after the Patriots made a formal visit to the White House in April during which Kraft called Trump a "very good friend."
Statement from #Patriots Chairman & CEO Robert Kraft: pic.twitter.com/f5DJeK0Woj  New England Patriots (@Patriots) September 24, 2017

Kraft's comments came shortly after Trump early on Sunday morning turned his attention to NFL fans in his feud with the league over players who kneel in protest during the national anthem, saying many people "stay away" from the games "because they love our country."
The president also suggested that if fans refuse to go to games due to the protests, "you will see change fast."
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Trump's tweets Sunday came just a couple of hours before a series of NFL games scheduled for the day begin.
Earlier, on Saturday night, the president slammed NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell for speaking out against Trump's condemnation of kneeling players and statement that team owners should fire those players.
Goodell is "trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country," Trump tweeted.
Roger Goodell of NFL just put out a statement trying to justify the total disrespect certain players show to our country.Tell them to stand!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Goodell did not mention the president by name in his statement earlier today.
"Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities."
NFL players across the league and their union -- and even some team officials -- were more direct in their response to Trump's criticism Friday night of the handful of NFL players who have kneeled or sat on the bench during the national anthem performed before games over the past two seasons.
The practice was most famously done by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick.
AP Photo/Marcio Jose Sanchez

Kaepernick, who is currently unsigned, began kneeling in the preseason in 2016 as a sign of protest over the treatment of blacks in the U.S.

Trump, speaking at a rally in Alabama on Friday, said, "Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now?'"
"You know, some owner ... is going to say, 'That guy who disrespects our flag, hes fired,'" the president said to thunderous applause and cheers.
Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images

The president of the NFL Players Union, which represents current and former players, released a statement on Saturday: "The balance between the rights of every citizen in our great country gets crossed when someone is told to just 'shut up and play.'"
Union President DeMaurice Smith acknowledged in his statement that the peaceful demonstrations by some of our players" haven't been universally supported, but "have generated a wide array of responses."
But, he added, "Those opinions are protected speech and a freedom that has been paid for by the sacrifice of men and women throughout history ... No man or woman should ever have to choose a job that forces them to surrender their rights."
Hours later Trump fired back at his critics, tweeting that it was a "privilege" for athletes to earn a lucrative career in professional sports.
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

San Francisco 49ers CEO Jed York weighed in Saturday afternoon, called the president's comments "callous and offensive" and "contradictory to this great country stands for."
Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross did not refer to the president directly, but said in a statement the country "needs unifying leadership right now, not more divisiveness."
Statement from Miami Dolphins Owner and Founder of Ross Initiative in Sports for Equality (RISE) Stephen Ross.
pic.twitter.com/6W3mXwJO6M  Miami Dolphins (@MiamiDolphins) September 23, 2017

Seattle Seahawks head coach Pete Carroll released a lengthy statement on Saturday evening supporting players' right to protest.
"In this incredibly polarizing time, there's no longer a place to sit silently.
It's time to take a stand," Carroll said.
"We stand for love and justice and civility.
We stand for our players and their constitutional rights, just as we stand for equality for all people."
Reaction to Trump's comments on social media by players were largely negative:

Broncos linebacker Brandon Marshall

Lions tight end Eric Ebron

Does anyone tell trump to stick to politics, like they tell us to stick to sports?
Eric Ebron (@Ebron85) September 23, 2017

Panthers linebacker Thomas Davis

Trump!!
??????????????
Thomas Davis (@ThomasDavisSDTM) September 23, 2017

Redskins linebacker Zach Brown

Trump stay in ur place... football have nothing to do wit u smh  Zach Brown (@ZachBrown_55) September 23, 2017

Titans wide receiver Rishard Matthews (a college teammate of Kaepernick)

I'm a full supporter of the Flag & This country!
Trust Me!
But this can't be real!
https://t.co/GAPkZPB8hz  Rishard Matthews (@_RMatthews) September 23, 2017

Buccaneers safety T.J. Ward

Vikings running back Bishop Sankey

It's a shame and disgrace when you have the President of the US calling citizens of the country sons of a bitches.
Bishop Sankey (@BishopSankey) September 23, 2017

Former Saints/Lions running back Reggie Bush

NFL players don't work for you Donald!
Request denied ???
https://t.co/rdu0ocS7Y9  Reggie Bush (@ReggieBush) September 23, 2017

Former Texans running back Arian Foster

cloth has more value than people.
apparently.
https://t.co/PZjeRA9861  feeno (@ArianFoster) September 23, 2017

Kaepernick did not directly address Trump's comments following the speech by Trump, but he did retweet multiple messages of support from fans and even a tweet of support from his mother on Saturday.
Seahawks defensive end Michael Bennett recently reignited the debate when he criticized Las Vegas police for racial profiling following an accidental arrest last month.
Bennett was detained by police outside a Las Vegas casino on Aug. 27 after police responded to a report of gunfire in the area.
Video obtained by TMZ of the incident shows an officer yelling at Bennett and pointing his gun at him while he is handcuffed.
He was later let go by police.
Bennett has begun sitting on the bench during the national anthem in protest of police violence.
President Trump is no stranger to the NFL.
In February, he was seen dining with New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, and in January just before his inauguration, the president singled out Kraft at a dinner.
ABC News' Maia Davis, Brendan Rand and M.L.
Nestel contributed to this report.
The pastor shouted "Run, run, gunshots!"
and congregants hid under pews or in bathrooms as a masked man armed with two guns opened fire at a Tennessee church, killing one person and wounding six before being subdued.
Burnette Chapel Church of Christ member Minerva Rosa said members were talking about the success of their yard sale the previous day when they heard gunshots Sunday outside the building in a Nashville neighborhood.
The church pastor, David Spann, 60, then shouted for everyone to run, according to a witness.
The gunman entered the church from the back after fatally shooting a woman outside, police said.
He then walked through the church silently, shooting six more people before an usher subdued him, police said.
Police later recovered another pistol and a shotgun from the suspect's vehicle.
Rosa said the reading that day had been from Luke, Chapter 8, and she recalled the part about a woman who touched Jesus and was cured of bleeding.
By the end of the shooting, she was on her knees, her dress stained with blood, putting pressure on the gunshot wound in Pastor Spann's chest.
She and others got on their phones to call 911.
Another church member, a 22-year-old usher named Robert Engle, tackled the gunman and suffered injuries when he was pistol whipped.
In the struggle, the shooter shot himself, although it wasn't clear if it was on purpose or an accident.
Engle retrieved his own gun from his car and held the man until police arrived, police said.
"He's amazing," Rosa told reporters about Engle.
"Without him I think it could be worse.
He was the hero today."
Authorities identified the attacker as Emanuel Kidega Samson, 25, of Murfreesboro, who came to the United States from Sudan in 1996 and is a legal U.S. resident.
Samson will have his first court appearance Wednesday, WMSV-TV reported, citing court records.
According to an arrest affidavit, Samson waived his rights and told police he arrived at the church armed and fired upon the building Sunday.
No motive was immediately determined.
Church members told investigators the suspect had attended services a year or two ago, said Don Aaron, a spokesman for the Metro Nashville Police Department.
Nashville police did not immediately comment on several bizarre posts on the suspect's Facebook page in the hours before the shooting.
The gunman pulled into the church's parking lot as services were ending.
Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tennessee, was killed when the shooter opened fire in the parking lot.
Spann's wife, Peggy, 65, was also shot as well as William and Marlene Jenkins, 83 and 84 respectively, Linda Bush, 68, and Katherine Dickerson, 64.
Police said none of the surviving victims suffered life-threatening injuries.
Aaron called Engle "an extraordinarily brave individual."
But in a statement Engle said he did not want to be labeled a hero.
"The real heroes are the police, first responders and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected."
Engle asked for prayers for all those injured as well as the shooter.
Blake Langford, 21, got a text from his father telling him not to come to the church where his family attended after the shooting.
"My grandmother hid under a church pew.
My stepmom and my aunt, they barricaded themselves in the bathroom," Langford said he learned from his father, who arrived at the church seconds after the shooting ended.
Langford said he knew Engle and believed his actions saved lives.
"He's 6 foot 5, a really big guy, but a gentle giant," Langford said.
"He's always been that kind of person to put others before himself."
Forty-two people were at the church at the time of the shooting, Aaron said.
The church describes itself on its website as a "friendly, Bible-based group of folks who love the Lord and are interested in spreading his word to those who are lost."
Photos on the church's Facebook page show a diverse congregation with people of various ages and ethnicities.
On Samson's Facebook page, a post in the hours before the shooting read, "Everything you've ever doubted or made to be believe as false, is real.
& vice versa, B."
Another post read, "Become the creator instead of what's created.
Whatever you say, goes."
And a third post read, "You are more than what they told us."
Police charged Samson Sunday night with one count of murder and said multiple charges were pending.
He was ordered held without bond by a judicial commissioner.
In addition, federal agents have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
After the attack, the nearby New Beautiful Gate Church opened its doors to Burnette Chapel churchgoers as they reunited with loved ones.
New Beautiful Gate Pastor Michael Mosby said he is neighbors with Spann.
"As a pastor myself, you come with the expectation of sitting down and having a service and not thinking about what can happen around you," Mosby said.
"You never know who is going to come to the door or what reasons they would come to the door, come to your church and do something like that.
We're always on guard.
We just thank God many more weren't hurt."
Raby reported from Charleston, West Virginia.
A U.S. fishing magnate known as "The Codfather" who pleaded guilty to evading fishing quotas and smuggling money to Portugal is set to be sentenced.
Carlos Rafael is the owner of one of the nation's largest commercial fishing operations.
It includes a fleet of more than 30 vessels, 44 commercial fishing permits and the Carlos Seafood business in New Bedford.
His sentencing is scheduled to begin in Boston's federal court on Monday and could extend into Tuesday.
Federal authorities say Rafael falsely claimed his vessels caught haddock or pollock, when they had actually caught other species subject to stricter quotas.
He then sold the fish for cash, some of which was smuggled overseas.
Prosecutors are asking for more than four years in prison.
Rafael's attorneys are seeking 24 months' probation.
Transcript for Anthony Weiner sentenced in sexting trial

Hi everyone on an Abbas here live in New York with some breaking news right here in New York.
Former democratic congressman Anthony Weiner has been sentenced to 21 months in prison.
It's all part of what was known as the sexting trial in which mr. Wiener pled guilty to a charge of transferring obscene material to a minor.
Our own airing pictures he was inside the courtroom he joins us live now outside the courthouse.
Air in 21 months was that what was to be expected in that sense things.
It was at the lower end of what prosecutors had wanted but Wiener faced up to 27.
Months in federal prison he himself bomb not asked for probation but the judge said there was a need for deterrence in this case.
Anthony Weiner sent obscene material to a minor fifteen year old girl in North Carolina and he did it toward the end of a six year saga of self destruction.
He had lost his congressional seat after a decade representing parts of Brooklyn and queens he had lost what may well it become a successful bid for mayor.
And finally he had lost his wife whom have a team that Hillary Clinton aide who divorced in the very day that he was indicted.
And now he is off to prison for the next 21 months a sentence that caused him to break down in court as the judge was reading it leaders head fell.
He's sob audibly.
And stayed that way not necessarily listening when the judge also imposed.
Computer searches Internet monitoring and other conditions after he's released in prison.
Airing you're inside that courtroom as we mentioned I want to break down a little bit as he mentioned that six year saga from a rising star congressman.
To now he will be registered sex offender but inside that room with mr. Wiener allowed to speak to any would speak on his behalf.
Before the sentencing rafter.
His attorney spoke for starlet Deborah Devlin brown the defense attorney.
Stood and said that this is no sexual deviant that Anthony Weiner.
Had a deep sickness when he was sending this material to a minor and he himself the defense attorney called it stunning that leader was still doing this even.
After losing its congressional seat and after losing his bid for mayor that was supposed to be as political comeback.
We hear it was not some scheming criminals.
He was sick and he says he's getting treatment and he spoke about remarkable progress that leaders made.
And he spoke about the regret that Wiener feels profound regret for what he had done but also in a way gratitude that all of this had finally come to the surface.
And he could get in the self help.
And then Anthony Weiner rose in his seat and through frequent clears up its growth and sought.
Hold the judge that he has it.
But not an excuse any responsibility.
For what he did it.
He knew that she was a minor and he said he was profoundly sorry and in perhaps the most wrenching moment for him.
He spoke of his son Jordan five years old he called the point itself based in through his treatment.
City always tried to teach him when you get knocked down you get right back up but realized that that wasn't the right less.
That he wasn't being honest he wasn't being truthful and only.
Once he had to plead guilty of this crime if you start to understand that and get the help that he needed.
Airing he mentioned this is a man who is basically lost everything now he lost his career.
He's lost his family's currently undergoing divorce proceedings with his wife from Aberdeen is a top aide of course to former secretary.
Clinton lost his reputation he will now serve prison time.
What is being sad about about him and coverage of this story and that stunning fall and it compare to anything we've seen before.
What he himself set up.
He is living a smaller light now he spoke about how people continually need therapy.
That the prosecutors though we're really skeptical that there be an all of this progress that he and his attorneys book about would be permanent and that's why.
Prosecutors said they are needed to stone general deterrence and the judge seemed sympathetic to that argument.
The judge actually complimented Wiener for the progress that he was making an.
Agreed with him that he has a disease a sexual couples committee that some call sex addiction as the judge put it.
But even then he's said.
There was the coverage and sit because Weiner was so high profile and the story has been covered so intensely as it has been.
That it could really serve as an example.
Once she spoke about that need for general deterrence.
It almost became inevitable that he was going to get sent to prison.
Ares I mean two leaders' actions go down in history for a number of reasons.
But of course maybe even though significantly for their linkage to the election that we will never be able to tough talking about the 2016 presidential election a picture take on this because you've covered boat.
So for so long crisis is reminder to everyone in federal investigators.
We're looking into mr. Wiener emails they found some that it imported to a laptop he shared with an avid dean.
Who is of course then and remains an aide to Secretary Clinton and and then and then FBI director pony.
And announced this link eleven days before the election Secretary Clinton now fully with that as part of the reason.
That she went on to lose the election.
How has this frame your coverage of of this trial and did it play at all into how people see mister Weiner now.
Well I think in some ways it it certainly did it it rocked the case due to an even bigger audience because.
The wave may have factored into the outcome of the election.
As you say and frequently in part.
The loss for then FBI director came in these actions upon learning that there were these emails it is connected him at city.
And so Weiner in this oddly it was still factoring into the political conversation.
Six years after he lost his congressional seat because of all of this.
But in court today.
And in the coverage leading up to it.
It was really no talk about the election this was all about the downfall of a man who once held such political promise unknown fighter for the causes.
Ally of Chuck Schumer is political protege.
And and and in that the potential for a comeback as as mayor of New York City and touring all the the jokes in the criticism in the and tabloid coverage that is so infamous here in new York and he went through it all even allowed a documentarian to feel his life.
And once BB extra.
Hands.
Ultimately it was down ultimately or race between clear.
He was still being shot by a film crew for this documentary so he's hold down Paul.
Became public it's part of the reason I think why a different judge just across the way here in Manhattan said that he could not happen anonymous divorce that the that was already out of the facts of his entire.
Life in downfall has been well documented but today.
Beyond what you said in court on leader arrived and left saying nothing.
Pairing you mentioned that when he thirteen documentary and that mayoral run was supposed to be part of a comeback.
For Anthony Weiner after the allegations came up in when he eleven and all the tax and the monikers and so line.
Is there a chance because look there's no place that loves a comeback story of an American pool of politics these days.
Is there anything the political future for Anthony Weiner Aureus or is this the end of that part of his life.
I think it's the end even his lawyer conceded there are second acts in America but there are no third acts and this became his his ultimate downfall as Weiner himself said in court today.
Being hit with a crime of sending obscene material one liner was his rock bottom.
There's probably no tolerance for convicted felon now you really want.
Or anything especially one who was sending this kind of explicit material to a fifty.
Spoken anywhere search.
He had simply.
And and rather humbly given his his start in public life.
Said that he wants to focus on his therapy on his treatment he goes to sex addiction therapy.
He goes to both group and an individual.
Treatment a couple of times a week and he said he wants two engage with his son.
In any way possible and interestingly that's going factor into where he serves his jail time at one point his defense attorney asked the judge to recommend.
Minimum security prison somewhere in the greater New York area and when the judge informed him that she would not recommend a specific prison for him to go to.
She asked if he wanted just generally to be in the New York area.
But that risks in being sent to prison right here in Manhattan and a maximum security prison where he would have no possibility of contact with the sun.
And so he he shook his head saying no he did not want the judge to recommend a specific place to serve his time.
He wants the chance the off chance even if he's far away that the boy would come as it.
Well stunning stunning fall from as an infant and a once rising star congressman.
To now convicted.
Fallon there area picked her ski live forest outside the federal courthouse in Manhattan thank you there.
Thanks to all of you for watching as well for the latest on the story head over to abcnews.com.
Any time or download ABC news act get the latest news and breaking headlines right to your phone or mobile device for now I'm on the devise penalty back here soon.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for The wonder of flowing lava in time lapse video

Yeah.
A yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Tampa man arrested for allegedly killing roommates who he felt disrespected his Muslim faith Devon Arthurs, 18, admitted to police that he shared neo-Nazi beliefs with his roommates before converting to Islam and that he killed them because they disrespected his new faith.
White nationalist featured in documentary surrenders to Charlottesville police Chris Cantwell, the white nationalist featured in a Vice documentary about the rallies held in Charlottesville in mid-August, surrendered to police late Wednesday.
Charlottesville shrouds Confederate statues Workers covered two Confederate statues in black in memory of a slain protester.
Transcript for NFL players on protesting: 'It's not about the flag'

Are you disappointed at all when some people say you know what this is disrespectful to the flag to the M. Progress that I mean is every one of them constitutional right to state their opinion.
Writes to which would do awful what I control them off on the a probable muffin is the of this country's own ads focus on what are.
Throwing that's not fair against a courtroom.
What do they represented you holding onto each other's arms just unity.
Represented that we have just met or brother's keeper on the Christensen.
Vernon when people say it's disrespectful what's been going on what do you see.
Look what were part it's disrespect kneeling.
In the Neil Lane is.
This certain ways to handle things and it.
I'm opposite like this.
If you don't want to nailing and then do some about right and we'll on that was going on is about.
Equality.
And that's what everyone's right if you don't talk to commodities.
They released.
It wasn't handled appropriately just added more fuel to the fire so the way to fix that is to.
Work with the people OK there's some problems going on there are some issues.
Let's address them what what can I do to help you guys this is not about the play the that the gas that are nailing some of these guys are young guys coming in.
I mean you can't fault them they're just following the older guys and it's not about the flight we love the flag they love the play.
You know this is in the heart it was we've seen it.
What message do you what message you will message do you have for the president.
Messages that just.
And help make things right.
If if everyone's calling out and they're trying to answer to pick something that helping let's let's let's help the situation.
And that way we can mitigate any game is going on within an IPO in the NBA instead of making people mad.
He's supposed to make people.
Q you the president.
And have everyone he has sat right I heard the president's statement and I like you know.
McCain can expect nobody you know has been where your from this thing where you come the the this is alive with the bottlers chronically those words like.
You know he's in pilots whose pain in he's in Thailand say we have yet platforms that we do is platforms moving more known ultimately the president United States.
Of course the assembly fields and you know we just don't want there if Obama that we just got a blockade being silent keeping play.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: Deadly church shooting in Tennessee

Now Playing: Trump faces backlash after blasting NFL players

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick's friend speaks out about anthem controversy

Now Playing: J.Lo donates $1M to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico

Now Playing: NFL star speaks out on the league's unity after Trump comments

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran performs his smash hit 'Shape of You' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran rocks out to a special performance of 'Perfect' live on 'GMA'

Now Playing: Suspect arrested in Tennessee deadly church shooting

Now Playing: Ed Sheeran reveals how he landed a role on 'Game of Thrones'

Now Playing: Freddie Highmore dishes on 'The Good Doctor'

Now Playing: How to make extra cash outside of your day job

Now Playing: What to know about the new 'clever gut diet'

Now Playing: Meghan Markle supports Prince Harry at Invictus Games

Now Playing: Elizabeth Moss, Jim Parsons read mean but hilarious tweets about them on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

Now Playing: GOP releases new version of health care bill

Now Playing: New technology offered for teen drivers

Now Playing: Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned amid national anthem controversy

Now Playing: NFL owners lock arms with players during national anthem

Now Playing: President Trump issues new travel ban
Transcript for How to make extra cash outside of your day job

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for The man who keeps Fenway Park running has never watched an entire game

Gardner's him.
Johnny is Fenway Park and in the little short in stature factory.
But I look at who's had a six dining Gardner is amazing have been here both times from 1999.
And persons.
And it's about anything if it.
A driven person.
I've always looked in my life and there's nothing you can do.
Typical vehicle near the park Mi 1718 now he works so hard your name names but as the saying goes put down that job right to build and run it.
Were only being paid.
I don't believe anybody.
I was so how would operate operating system one person better than me and that's not a patent.
If we own up.
Not one into this part.
No looking back it's.
I'm not and it needs to be pat on the back and have my name.
A lot of people in the company know that have never watched the game.
You know I'm a fan of the team.
I had never watched the game I'd rather fan and you replied it Ireland and man.
It very easy get caught up in what's going on.
You know where I'm walking and what's going on tactical.
In the I wanna have fun.
I don't want to be had with it on its missiles.
Can't you know I would.
You give me a 110 million.
I get you back.
Nothing like they have.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Backlash grows against Trump's statements on protests in sports

not urging fans to boycott the NFL.
Sending a mixed message.
Mary, thank you.
And Oakland a's rookie Bruce Maxwell, becoming the first major league baseball player taking a knee during the anthem.
Outrage is building over the president's heated comments.
Here's Ryan Smith.
Reporter: Tonight, growing backlash across the country.
I hate you!
Reporter: Fans in Philadelphia clash over the controversy ignited by president trump.
The NFL uniting.
I guess we're all a son of a .
Reporter: Former head coach Rex Ryan campaigned for trump, but had harsh words today.
I'm pissed off, I'll be honest with you.
Because I supported Donald Trump.
Calling our players S.O.B.S and all that kind of stuff.
That's not the men that I know.
The men that I know in the locker room I'm proud of.
Reporter: Hall of fame quarterback Terry Bradshaw disagrees with the protest, but stands behind the protesters' right to do it.
If our country stands for anything, folks, what, it's freedom.
People died for that freedom.
I'm not sure if our president understands those rights.
Reporter: Owners from six teams taking the field during the anthem in support of their players.
Half of them making statements in solidarity.
Patriots owner Bob Kraft is a well known friend of trump, even flying on air force one, donating $1 million to his inaugural committee.
But today saying he's, "Deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments" and "There is no greater unifier in this country than sports.
Unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics."
We spoke to fans across the country and that divide is clear.
I stand for those who stand for us.
You guys make a lot of money, and they should stand during the national anthem.
I voted for president trump, but there are other issues he should be more concerned with.
We agree with standing up for the flag.
Reporter: The take a knee hashtag tweeted roughly 2 million times.
Tonight I'm taking a knee for America.
Reporter: Singer Stevie wonder and his son kneeling at the global citizens concert last night.
Oakland a's baseball player Bruce Maxwell showing his support.
And tonight, the NFL will play this ad in primetime showing how football can unify.
Inside these lines, we may have our differences, but recognize there's more that unites us.
Ryan joins us from outside MetLife stadium.
I know you're talking to your sources in the NFL.
Are they saying this is only the beginning of the protests?
Reporter: Emotions were running high among many players, and fans were generally supportive of the protests on Sunday.
That means there could be more

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for A crash between a drone and military aircraft raises safety concerns

Back now with a collision over the skies of the U.N. General assembly.
The incident involving a drone and a military helicopter.
Raising new questions tonight.
Here's erielle reshef.
Reporter: Tonight, the push to find the pilot who slammed a drone into this black hawk helicopter.
The crash, the first between a drone and a military aircraft.
It happened just 500 feet above a New York neighborhood.
The FAA says it's illegal to fly private drones that high.
The 82nd airborne pilot managed to land the black hawk safely at a New Jersey airport.
The chopper, tasked with patrolling the united nations general assembly, temporarily grounded because of damage to the blades and window.
This fragment of the drone, the only clue about who may have been flying it.
Sooner or later we are going to lose an airplane to a drone due to a collision.
Reporter: Law enforcement increasingly dealing with these high-flying hazards.
We just had a near midair collision with a drone.
Reporter: This summer, a drone came within 100 feet of a state police aircraft in Massachusetts.
Another inched dangerously close to a police chopper in north Carolina.
It could have been a catastrophic event.
Reporter: Tom, none of the paratroopers inside the black hawk were injured.
The 82nd airborne division says its pilot had no warning a drone was nearby.
Erielle, thank you.
When we come back, the new

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Thousands in Puerto Rico rush for higher ground as large dam begins to fail

Let's turn now to Puerto Rico and the stunning devastation brought by hurricane MARIA.
Authorities beginning to get a firsthand look at the destruction.
Families cut off with no power, water, or cell phone service.
At least ten killed.
The imminent threat at this hour, a dam in danger of failing.
Thousands rushing to higher ground.
Here's Eva pilgrim.
Reporter: Tonight, a dire situation.
Officials warning this dam in Puerto Rico could fail at any moment.
We're encouraging folks to leave.
It's going to be difficult to come back and get them.
Reporter: Aerial footage showing the spillway overflowing and ripping up everything in its path.
Now the dam itself, more than three football fields wide, cracked and threatening to collapse.
Rescuers say getting to those in need is difficult.
Most of these searchers we're doing, we're doing it boots on the ground.
We're walking to it.
Reporter: Across Puerto Rico, officials now describing conditions as "Apocalyptic."
For five days now, millions cut off from the rest of the world without water, fuel, or power.
I know we're not going to get to everybody in time.
Reporter: The line for just $20 of gas stretching for blocks.
Eight hours waiting for gas.
Reporter: As desperation mounts, an argument erupts moments after this gas station shuts down.
After a three-hour wait, Bertha Melendez is empty-handed.
I'm very mad because this is an emergency.
Reporter: Facing months without power, MARIA is now being called the biggest catastrophe the island has ever seen.
Authorities watching to see how much water pushes into this collapsed spillway.
Tonight, that evacuation is still in place.
Eva, thank you.
And hurricane MARIA tonight

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Deadly church shooting in Tennessee

protests to come.
Ryan, thank you.
Also breaking tonight, the deadly church shooting in Tennessee.
At least one killed, several wounded.
Authorities say the gunman wearing a mask, arrived at the church and opened fire.
A church member standing up to the gunman.
Adrienne Bankert is in Tennessee.
Reporter: This small Tennessee church, ripped apart by a gunman on a deadly shooting rampage.
The church of Christ people have been shot at that location.
Reporter: The first calls came in at 11:15 A.M. As the service at Burnette chapel church of Christ near Nashville let out.
This is a level one mass casualty incident.
Reporter: Police say the gunman killed one in the parking lot, then made his way to the pulpit.
Well, the guy came from the right side of the church, and he was just shooting.
He was just shooting, he came right to the middle and shot more.
Reporter: Minerva Rosa's dress bloody from helping the pastor, one of seven hurt along with 68-year-old Linda bush.
She was pretending to be dead so he wouldn't shoot her again.
Reporter: After several minutes of horror, Robert ingle, a church usher, confronting the shooter.
He tackled him, he was hurt in his head, and without him I think it could have been worse.
Reporter: The gunman, now identified by police as 25-year-old emanual Samson, shot during the struggle.
Police say that heroic usher saved lives.
The church usher is an extraordinarily brave individual.
Reporter: Tom, police are still trying to figure out the shooter's motives.
He's a former member of the church, and the U.S. Attorney's office is opening up a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
Adrienne, thank you.
Next up, the U.S. With a show of force, sending a message

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for More NFL players join peaceful protest against racial inequality

We begin tonight with the unescapable head-on collision of politics and sports.
Many NFL players responding to president trump's attack on those who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Similar acts of defiance seen before each game.
Players peacefully taking a knee, locking arms, some with fists raised in the air.
The pittsbgh steelers among the teams choosing not to take the field during the anthem.
Trump saying players should be fired or suspended.
The NFL commissioner, owners, coaches and players sending a united message.
And tonight, new comments from the president trump.
Here's Mary Bruce.
Reporter: On this football Sunday -- ???
oh say can you see ???
Reporter: The NFL is sending a message to president trump.
From Detroit to Buffalo, and all the way to London, as the anthem plays, the chorus of opposition from the field is growing.
Players and coaches kneeling together.
Arms linked, fists raised in solidarity.
The national anthem at Forbes field ending with this moment.
The patriots' Tom Brady, shoulder to shoulder with his teammates.
In Chicago, all but one of the steelers declined to take the field.
The lone player who stood, Villanueva, a U.S.
Veteran.
And in Nashville, the anthem blaring out over an empty field.
The titans and the Seahawks sitting out the anthem together.
It started with this jab, and crude language, from the president on Friday.
Taking on football players like Colin Kaepernick, who kneel during the national anthem to protest racial and social injustice.
When somebody disrespects our flag, to say, "Get that son of a Off the field right now, out.
He's fired.
He's fired!
Reporter: Tonight, he's doubling down.
I think the ownership should do something about it.
I think it's very, very disrespectful to our flag.
Reporter: And insists it has nothing to do with race.
This has nothing to do with race or anything else.
It has to do with respect for our country.
Reporter: On Twitter, the president saying if NFL fans refused to go to games until players stop disrespecting our flag and country, you will see change taking place fast.
Fire or suspend!
But the NFL is backing its players.
In an unusually strong rebuke, the commissioner says, "Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the NFL, our great game and all of our players."
For the president who vowed to bring the country together -- I think I'll bring people together.
And that includes blacks and whites and everything.
I think people will come together.
Reporter: Now, 66% of Americans say he is doing more to divide the country than unite it, He's now using sports as the platform to try to divide us.
Reporter: And it's not just football.
Trump is taking on basketball too, after NBA champion Steph curry said he didn't want to visit the white house.
I don't want to go.
That's really it.
Reporter: Tbump then beat him to it, disinviting him.
Tweeting, "Going to the white house is considered a great honor for a championship team.
Steph curry is hesitating, therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Lebron James' first response?
"You bum.
Curry already said he isn't going.
Going to the white house was a great honor until you showed up."
Mary, from outside fedexfield, and president trump weighing in again tonight.
Clearly watching some of the games today?
Reporter: The president said he did watch some of today's games, but he said he saw tremendous solidarity for our country and our flag.
On Twitter, he added standing with locked arms is good.
Kneeling is not acceptable.
And Tom, despite the president's recent comments, he insists he's not urging fans to boycott the NFL.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
The wife of a former high school assistant football coach in Tennessee has pleaded guilty to having sex with a 16-year-old player on her husband's team.
The Knoxville News-Sentinel reports Kelsey McCarter, 27, pleaded guilty to seven counts, including six charges of statutory rape.
The report says she agreed to a three-year prison term but could be eligible for release after serving about a third of her sentence.
The mother of a Knoxville high school sophomore says the encounters occurred in 2015 while the teen had lived with McCarter and her husband, Justin McCarter.
The husband had invited the student to live at their home after the teen faced behavioral problems, according to the report.
Justin McCarter resigned last year.
___

Information from: Knoxville News Sentinel, http://www.knoxnews.com
A ceremony marking the 60th anniversary of the integration of Little Rock Central High School will feature former President Bill Clinton.
Monday's event at the school will also include the eight surviving members of the nine students who entered the school on Sept. 25, 1957, under escort by federal troops.
The integration came after then-Arkansas Gov.
Orval Faubus had called out the Arkansas National Guard to prevent the nine from entering the school.
President Eisenhower then sent units of the 327th Infantry, 101st Airborne Division, to escort the students and hold back the angry crowds.
The ceremony is the culmination of a weekend of activities marking the anniversary of the event.
A Sudanese immigrant admitted to being the triggerman who killed one parishioner and seriously injured seven others Sunday at a Nashville-area church, according to a police affidavit ahead of his first court appearance.
Emanuel Kidega Samson, of La Vergne, told cops during an interview that he fired upon the church building after arriving there with a handgun, The Tennessean reported, citing the affidavit.
Samson, who was been charged with one count of murder and is likely to face other charges, will appear in Davidson County General Sessions court Wednesday and is being held at a county jail without bond.
His admission comes as police are searching for a motive for the shooting at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch.
Samson, 25, purportedly posted several cryptic messages on his Facebook page in the days leading up to the attack.
Photos from a Facebook page under Samson's name seemed to show him lifting weights and showing off his physique, with the words "unrestricted paroxysm underneath, meaning a sudden attack or violent expression of emotion, The Tennessean reported.
A post earlier Sunday read: "Everything you've ever doubted or made to be believe as false, is real.
& vice versa, B."
Another post read, "Become the creator instead of what's created.
What you say, goes."
Police have not yet commented on the posts.
"The Memphis FBI Field Office's Nashville Resident Agency, the Civil Rights Division, and the US Attorney's Office for the Middle District of Tennessee have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch, Tennessee.
The FBI will collect all available facts and evidence," FBI Memphis told Fox News on Sunday.
Witnesses told police that they heard gunshots from the churchs parking lot moments after Samson entered the building.
The pastor shouted "Run, run, gunshots!"
and congregants hid under pews or in bathrooms, The Associated Press reported.
Burnette Chapel Church of Christ member Minerva Rosa said members were talking about the success of their yard sale the previous day when they heard gunshots.
The church pastor, David Spann, 60, then shouted for everyone to run, according to a witness.
Samson entered the church from the back after fatally shooting a woman outside, police said.
He then walked through the church silently, shooting six more people before an usher subdued him, police said.
Police later recovered another pistol and a shotgun from the suspect's vehicle.
Rosa said the reading that day had been from Luke, Chapter 8, and she recalled the part about a woman who touched Jesus and was cured of bleeding.
By the end of the shooting, she was on her knees, her dress stained with blood, putting pressure on the gunshot wound in Pastor Spann's chest.
She and others got on their phones to call 911.
Another church member, a 22-year-old usher named Robert Engle, tackled the gunman and suffered injuries when he was pistol whipped.
In the struggle, the shooter shot himself, although it wasn't clear if it was on purpose or an accident.
Engle retrieved his own gun from his car and held the man until police arrived, police said.
"He's amazing," Rosa told reporters about Engle.
"Without him I think it could be worse.
He was the hero today."
Church members told investigators Samson had attended services a year or two ago, said Don Aaron, a spokesman for the Metro Nashville Police Department.
The gunman pulled into the church's parking lot as services were ending.
Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tennessee, was killed when the shooter opened fire in the parking lot.
Spann's wife, Peggy, 65, was also shot as well as William and Marlene Jenkins, 83 and 84 respectively, Linda Bush, 68, and Katherine Dickerson, 64.
Police said none of the surviving victims suffered life-threatening injuries.
Aaron called Engle "an extraordinarily brave individual."
But in a statement Engle said he did not want to be labeled a hero.
"The real heroes are the police, first responders and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected."
Engle asked for prayers for all those injured as well as the shooter.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Latest on President Donald Trump's travel ban (all times local):

11:20 a.m.

Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro (nee-koh-LAHS' mah-DOO'-roh) says the Trump administration's decision to include Venezuelan officials on a travel ban is a form of "political and psychological terrorism."
His foreign ministry issued a statement Monday saying that the travel restrictions violate the values of the United Nations charter and international law and are part of a continuing effort by the U.S. to oust Maduro from power.
The ministry said it is considering "all necessary measures" to defend Venezuela's sovereignty and national interest.
The Trump administration says Venezuela's government has been uncooperative in verifying whether its citizens represent national security threats and says the travel restrictions target officials at agencies and ministries responsible for screening.
The Trump administration also calls for Venezuelan nationals who are already visa holders to be subject to "appropriate additional measures" to ensure their traveler information remains current.
___

4:30 a.m.
The three major long-haul airlines of the Gulf say they are aware of the new travel restrictions implemented by U.S. President Donald Trump's administration.
Dubai-based Emirates said in a statement to The Associated Press: "With regards to entry requirements for travel to/from the USA, Emirates continues to take guidance provided to us by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection."
In Abu Dhabi, long-haul carrier Etihad said: "The airline continues to accept nationals with valid travel documentation from the listed countries.
Acceptance, as per standard procedure, is subject to checks completed by U.S. authorities at the preclearance facility in Abu Dhabi International Airport."
Doha-based Qatar Airways also said its operations continued as normal.
The travel ban, as well as the since-lifted ban on laptops in Mideast airliner cabins, has hurt Gulf carriers.
Emirates has cut routes to the U.S.
The Gulf airlines also have faced stiff resistance from U.S. airlines, which accuse the Mideast carriers of being unfairly subsidized by their governments.
The Gulf carriers strongly dispute that.
___

4:25 a.m.
In the streets of Tehran, Iranians say they are confused by the new travel ban instituted by U.S. President Donald Trump.
Roghieh Shahverdi, a 23-year-old secretary, told The Associated Press on Monday that she viewed it as "a miserable decision."
She said after waiting months she only just got a visa interview appointment for her mother to visit her sister, who has lived in the U.S. for six years.
Shahverdi said: "All the hopes of both are fading away."
University student Erfan Maddah wrote online that he was "totally confused" by the decision.
Maddah wrote: "I have student visa appointment on October 4, I do not know if I have to continue or not."
___

4:17 a.m.:

Iran's foreign minister has criticized U.S. President Donald Trump for his administration's new travel ban.
Mohammed Javad Zarif wrote on Twitter early Monday: "Trump's fake empathy for Iranians rings ever more hollow, with his new and even more offensive travel ban against such outstanding citizens."
Zarif, who is in New York for the United Nations General Assembly, has taken to Twitter before to criticize Trump.
Iran previously was among the six majority Muslim nations targeted in the travel ban.
The new travel ban applies indefinite restrictions to citizens of Chad, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Yemen and North Korea.
The changes will take effect October 18.
___

2:50 a.m.

North Korea hasn't reacted yet to newly announced U.S. travel restrictions, but they are largely a symbolic measure for the North Asian country already under severe sanctions because of its nuclear weapons program.
Most or all of the North Koreans living in the United States are based at the country's diplomatic mission to the United Nations.
The restrictions in the proclamation President Donald Trump signed Sunday include the suspension of all immigrant and non-immigrant visas for North Korean nationals.
South Korean analysts believe, though, the U.S. measure wouldn't target North Korean diplomats.
Certain North Korean individuals are banned already due to sanctions.
North Korea does not allow its ordinary citizens to travel abroad except in special cases, like jobs that bring in foreign currency or participation in sporting events.
___

2:10 a.m.

President Donald Trump has signed a proclamation imposing strict new restrictions on travelers from a handful of countries, including five that were covered by his expiring travel ban.
Administration officials say the new measures are required to keep the nation safe.
The indefinite restrictions apply to citizens of Chad, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Yemen and North Korea.
As part of the presidential proclamation signed Sunday, the U.S. will also bar the entry of certain Venezuelan government officials and their immediate families.
The changes will take effect October 18.
The announcement came the same day that Trump's temporary ban on visitors from six Muslim-majority countries was set to expire, 90 days after it went into effect.
___

Jon Gambrell in Dubai, United Arab Emirates and Nasser Karimi in Tehran contributed to this story
Police say a teenage suspect was fatally shot in an apparent home invasion in Mississippi.
Hattiesburg police told WDAM-TV that they believe the homeowner shot 17-year-old Justin Woodland on Sunday night.
Authorities say no charges are being filed against the homeowner and the case will be presented to a grand jury.
Forrest County deputy coroner Lisa Klem says Woodland's body will be sent to an autopsy in Jackson.
Police have charged a second suspect, Anton Smith, with armed robbery and burglary of a dwelling.
It is unclear whether Smith has an attorney to comment on the charges.
___

Information from: WDAM-TV, http://www.wdam.com
Police say a 3-year-old girl is recovering after being shot at an Alabama apartment complex.
WALA-TV reports that Mobile police say the child is in critical but stable condition after the shooting on Sunday morning.
Investigators say they are working to determine who took the handgun into the apartment where other children were inside.
Officer Donald Wallace says an officer patrolling nearby was flagged down by residents when the shooting happened.
He says the officer found a girl being carried outside and called medical responders.
___

Information from: WALA-TV, http://www.fox10tv.com/
A Pennsylvania funeral director has been charged with abusing corpses and other crimes for allegedly taking cellphone pictures of the dead to "gross out" her friends and family.
Twenty-seven-year-old Angeliegha (an-jah-LEE'-ah) Stewart also faces a marijuana charge, after Monroe County detectives found conversations about deals when they searched her phone last month amid their investigation into the photos.
Authorities say Stewart took pictures of one corpse during an organ-harvesting process and others of a decomposing corpse.
Some of the corpses were in caskets; some were not.
Authorities on Monday were still identifying the corpses.
Online court records show Stewart applied for a public defender, but that office said Monday it doesn't represent her.
Officials with the Lanterman & Allen Funeral Home in East Stroudsburg didn't immediately return a call.
The U.S. Supreme Court is giving Mississippi more time to respond to a lawsuit that challenges the Confederate battle emblem on the state flag.
The court said Monday that attorneys for Republican Gov.
Phil Bryant have until Oct. 18 to respond.
The original deadline was this Thursday.
Carlos Moore, an African-American attorney in Mississippi, filed suit in 2016 seeking to have the flag declared an unconstitutional relic of slavery.
A federal district judge and an appeals court ruled against Moore, but his attorneys asked the Supreme Court in June to consider the case during the term that begins in October.
The court accepts a fraction of cases on appeal.
Mississippi has the last state flag featuring the Confederate battle emblem.
Critics say the symbol is racist.
Supporters say it represents history.
The state has used the flag since 1894, displaying its red field and tilted blue cross dotted with 13 white stars in the upper left corner.
In a 2001 election voters decided to keep it, and Bryant has often said that if the flag design is to be reconsidered, it should be done in another statewide election.
Several cities and towns and all eight of the state's public universities have stopped flying the flag amid concerns that it is offensive in a state where 38 percent of the population is black.
Many took action after the June 2015 massacre of nine black worshippers at a church in Charleston, South Carolina, by an avowed white supremacist who posed with the Confederate battle flag in photos posted online.
____

Follow Emily Wagster Pettus on Twitter: http://twitter.com/EWagsterPettus .
Six people were shot in two separate incidents in Baltimore.
Both shootings happened Sunday night.
The first came when a gunman opened fire at four people sitting outside in the Brooklyn neighborhood of South Baltimore.
Police said a 34-year-old man was shot in the back, a 29-year-old man was shot in the left leg and a 26-year-old woman was shot in the stomach.
All three people were taken to the hospital by ambulance and were listed in stable condition.
A 32-year-old man who was shot in the arm took himself to a local hospital.
Later, in a separate shooting, police found a 25-year-old man and a 27-year-old man who had both been shot in the leg.
Both were expected to survive their injuries.
A woman who accused a former South Carolina sheriff's deputy of forcing her into a sex act has settled a civil lawsuit.
The Times & Democrat of Orangeburg reports Monday that the woman received a $350,000 settlement earlier this year from the South Carolina Insurance Reserve Fund.
The newspaper obtained details on the settlement through an open records request.
Former Orangeburg County Deputy Dereck Johnson pleaded guilty earlier this month to misconduct in office and is serving probation and community service.
Johnson was fired last year after the woman accused him of forcing her to perform oral sex on him, threatening to arrest her boyfriend if she refused.
After the incident, the woman told The Associated Press she feared no one would believe the allegation.
___

Information from: The Times & Democrat, http://www.timesanddemocrat.com
Now a Category 1 storm, Hurricane Maria continues to move slowly northward as of Monday morning.
Forecasters said Maria will move "well east" of the southeastern coast of the U.S. over the next few days.
Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico early Wednesday as a powerful Category 4 hurricane, destroying hundreds of homes and knocking out power to the entire U.S. territory of 3.4 million people.
The storm's center passed near or over the U.S. Virgin Island of Saint Croix overnight Tuesday.
Here's what you should know about Marias path.
Where is Maria today?
Hurricane Maria is approximately 315 miles south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, N.C., according to the National Hurricane Center's 11 a.m.
ET advisory Monday.
HURRICANE WARNING VS. WATCH: HOW ARE THEY DIFFERENT?
The storm is traveling north at 7 mph with maximum sustained winds of 80 mph, the National Hurricane Center said.
What else should I know about the hurricane?
A tropical storm watch is in effect for parts of North Carolina's eastern coast all the way to the Virginia border.
Maria is expected to stay off the coast as it continues its trek north, however.
Although it is still considered to be a large hurricane, Maria is expected to weaken to a tropical storm by Tuesday night.
Maria already ravaged the Caribbean nation of Dominica, leaving widespread devastation, according to Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit.
WHAT IS THE SAFFIR-SIMPSON SCALE?
So far we have lost all what money can buy and replace, Skerrit said.
I am honestly not preoccupied with physical damage at this time, because it is devastating  Indeed, mind boggling.
My focus now is in rescuing the trapped and securing medical assistance for the injured.
When Maria hit Puerto Rico on Wednesday, it was the third-strongest storm to make landfall in the U.S., based on its central pressure.
It was even stronger than Irma when it hit the Florida Keys earlier this month.
Saint Croix, largely spared the widespread damage caused by Hurricane Irma just weeks ago, this time experienced five hours of hurricane force winds, U.S. Virgin Islands Gov.
Kenneth Mapp said.
Residents in Saint Croix told Fox News that the storm left them without power and turned roads into mudslides.
Barges were also destroyed in the storm, residents said, causing concern not only for Saint Croix, but for nearby Saint Thomas and Saint John, which had been receiving aid from the larger of the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Fox News' Kaitlyn Schallhorn and Zoe Szathmary and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Virginia state police have charged a man in the shooting of a deputy.
The deputy was shot in the head, but escaped serious injury.
He was treated and released from the hospital after the shooting Friday night during a traffic stop in Amherst County.
State police said Trevor Ewers of Monroe is charged with malicious wounding of a law enforcement officer, using a firearm in the commission of a felony and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.
The Amherst County Sheriff's Office said that after deputies initiated a traffic stop at a post office in Monroe, a passenger in the vehicle shot the deputy.
The 22-year-old Ewers was injured when another deputy returned fire.
He was still being treated Monday at Lynchburg General Hospital for injuries.
A South Carolina couple has been arrested after the remains of a baby missing since July were found.
Horry County Deputy Coroner Darris Fowler told local media outlets the remains of 9-month-old Aaliyana McCoy were found Saturday in the Socastee area.
Fowler said he thinks the girl died around July 15.
Her body has been sent to the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston to determine the cause of death.
Myrtle Beach police started an investigation last week after receiving word the baby had not been seen since July.
The baby's mother, 19-year-old Ladasha Harriett, has been charged with homicide by child abuse.
Police said Harriett's boyfriend, 22-year-old Daquan Jamal Simmons, is also charged with homicide by child abuse.
It was not known if they have attorneys yet.
Police say a 2-year-old boy has accidentally killed his father while playing with a gun in St. Louis.
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reports that police say the toddler shot 27-year-old Darrion Noble in the neck Saturday afternoon.
The shooting happened while the boy was handling the firearm in a bed where his father was sleeping.
Noble died at the scene.
It's unclear who the gun belonged to or how the child found it.
Police released no other details of the shooting.
The lobster industry along the New England coast is changing, and its two major lobster stocks are evolving in dramatically different directions.
North of Cape Cod, lobster populations are booming, but in the south, the stock has greatly declined.
In Maine, where catches have reached record highs in recent years, optimism surrounding lobstering contrasts with attitudes farther south and with the New England fishing industry in general.
Still, the environmental factors impacting lobster have presented those involved with the industry, people who have historically valued being responsible stewards of the ocean, with the task of figuring out how to respond to changes that are largely out of their control.
One of the biggest challenges and questions in fisheries management right now is how do we adapt to these changing conditions, Megan Ware, American lobster fishery management plan coordinator for the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC), said.
(Photos/Patrick Daly/Maine Lobsterman's Association)

Jim Dow lives in Bar Harbor, Maine, and has been lobstering for 30 years.
He comes from about five generations of fishermen, and he learned how to catch lobster from his father and great uncle.
As it is with every coastal community down the coast of Maine, fishing is a community operation, Dow said.
We all know each other in this harbor, were all friends, half of us are related and everybody looks out for each other.
The overall landed value of Maines lobster fishery in 2016 was more than $547 million, according to the Maine Department of Marine Resources , and it is a vital industry for many coastal communities.
Lobster fishing is about the only industry left here, Dow said.
Various factors have contributed to Maines growing lobster population since the mid-1990s.
Some of these are practices lobstermen and the state of Maine have implemented to protect the fishery, like restrictions on the size of lobsters people can catch and limits on the number of lobstering permits in the state, said Dow.
Other environmental factors, like ocean acidification and changing numbers of lobster predators, have also influenced lobster populations, driving them up in the Gulf of Maine and down in southern New England.
One variable that has been a significant influence in lobster abundance has been warming water temperatures along Atlantic coast .
Lobsters prefer temperatures between about 54 and 64 degrees Fahrenheit, and when temperatures are above 68 degrees Fahrenheit, they become stressed.
Along the Northeast, where sea surface temperatures have warmed by about twice the global rate, southern New England waters are more often above the 68-degree threshold.
In contrast, the Gulf of Maine is more frequently within optimal lobster temperatures, according to a 2015 report by the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC).
Most signs regarding Maine lobster are positive, but climatic factors like warming waters and ocean acidification could pose a challenge in the future, University of Maine Lobster Institute Director Bob Bayer said.
The elevated water temperatures right now seem to be beneficial in most places [in Maine], but thats not going to go on forever, Bayer said.
Lobsters do have a tolerance, and once you get beyond that there are going to be problems.
Figuring out how to respond to these factors has been difficult.
In southern New England, the ASMFC was considering changes to management regulations to try to increase lobster populations.
After hearing from industry members in favor of keeping the status quo, the commission decided to forego the changes.
Some of the comments on that were that its not fishing pressure thats causing this decline, its environmental factors, environmental changes, and those that are left have been able to find a way to make it economically viable, so they should continue that practice, Ware said.
Dow said he thinks Maines lobster future looks positive, although the Maine Lobster Advisory Council, in which Dow also participates, is also working to create a plan that would slow fishing pressure if needed.
We really dont have any control over the atmosphere or acidification, Dow said.
Theres not much we can do other than be good stewards.
Questions about managing stocks that are being affected by environmental changes, both positively and negatively, are questions Ware said the commission was trying to answer.
But she said there doesnt seem to be a great answer yet.
Dow has always been interested in lobstering; he grew up by the water, on the docks, and says its what he's always wanted to do.
Now that Maine has a lot of lobster and lobstermen are doing better, he said more and more kids are also interested in becoming fishermen.
Im hopeful, Dow said.
I dont have any sons or daughters who are lobster fishermen, but hopefully Ill have grandsons and granddaughters that want to be lobster fishermen, and I know everybody feels the same way for their children, their grandchildren.
They want the fishery to be there for them.
U.S. officials reopened freeway lanes to Tijuana, Mexico at the busiest U.S. border crossing ahead of schedule after a weekend shutdown for work on a $741 million expansion project.
California Department of Transportation spokeswoman Caridad Sanchez says traffic began flowing again just after midnight Monday on Interstate 5 and connecting freeways at the San Ysidro Port of Entry.
It connects San Diego to Tijuana.
The 57-hour shutdown for southbound traffic was scheduled to last until noon on Monday.
Detoured traffic into Mexico was unusually light over the weekend as motorists heeded calls to avoid driving to Tijuana from San Diego.
Once the $741 million expansion is completed in 2019, there will be twice the number of lanes to handle the estimated 40,000 vehicles that pass through San Ysidro on weekends.
The violent crime rate is on the rise throughout the United States, with statistics show 2016 had the largest single-year increase in 25 years, according to new FBI data released Monday.
The bureaus annual Crime in the United States report said the violent crime rate increased in 2016 by 3.4 percent, a slight tick up from 2015s 3.3 percent year-over-year increase.
For the sake of all Americans, we must confront and turn back the rising tide of violent crime.
And we must do it together, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said in a statement.
The Department of Justice is committed to working with our state, local, and tribal partners across the country to deter violent crime, dismantle criminal organizations and gangs, stop the scourge of drug trafficking, and send a strong message to criminals that we will not surrender our communities to lawlessness and violence.
The report says increases in violent crime were happening in suburban areas and cities of all sizes, ranging from those with populations below 10,000 to those with populations of more than 250,000.
It added that rapes, robberies and aggravated assaults all showed an uptick in 2016.
Across the U.S., the homicide rate also increased by 7.9 percent in 2016, marking an overall jump of more than 20 percent since 2014, the report said.
Full crime data is not yet available for 2017, but for some cities like Chicago, homicide rates appear to be falling.
The city reached its 500-homicide mark over Labor Day weekend, 14 days after it hit the same total last year, The Chicago Sun-Times reported.
A Maine high school student has organized a fly-in on Old Orchard Beach to commemorate the 90th anniversary of Charles Lindbergh's surprise landing.
The Portland Press Herald reports 15-year-old Chase Walker scheduled the event for Saturday in partnership with the Make-A-Wish Foundation.
Thirty-four pilots will land on Old Orchard Beach to celebrate Lindbergh's landing and raise money for the foundation.
Lindbergh was forced to land on the beach on July 24, 1927, after experiencing bad weather.
The landing came during a nationwide victory tour in celebration of his historic trans-Atlantic flight.
The Old Orchard Beach teen is excited about the re-creation and hopes to raise $7,000 to grant a wish for one Maine child.
___

Information from: Portland Press Herald, http://www.pressherald.com
Authorities have identified the man who was killed in a jet ski crash in Clearwater on Saturday.
Florida Fish and Wildlife officials said a jet ski and center-console boat collided on the intercostal waterway near Bay Esplanade, a residential street close to Moonshine Island.
The 911 call came from a home at 941 Bay Esplanade, officials said.
A 52-year-old man, identified as Craig Butz, and a 4-year-old girl were riding on the jet ski when it was hit by the boat shortly before 5 p.m.

Butz was rushed to Morton Plant Hospital, where he was pronounced deceased.
The child was airlifted to Bayfront Hospital in critical condition.
Butz was the principal of Pepin Academies, which has three charter schools in the Tampa Bay area.
Records show that the home on Bay Esplanade is connected to Thomas Pepin, the CEO of Pepin Distributing Company.
It was recently owned by the "Thomas A. Pepin Revocable Trust."
The Chairman of the Pepin Academies Hillsborough Campuses, Dr. Jeff Skowronek, released a statement on behalf of Pepin Academies concerning Butz' death:

We are shocked and saddened to hear of the unexpected and tragic loss of Pepin Academies Executive Director, Dr. Craig Butz.
In my four years working with Dr. Butz, he advanced the mission of Pepin Academies tenfold.
His wisdom and intelligence was matched by his passion and exuberance for the staff and students of our schools.
He was a leader, a champion, and a friend.
The pain of his loss, both professionally and personally, will be felt for an eternity.
Our thoughts and prayers are with his family, especially his young daughter Teagan who remains in critical condition.
We ask that their privacy be respected during this sad and difficult time.
Pepin Academies will have bereavement specialists at the school on Monday to help grieving students and staff cope with this tragic loss.
The president of Pepin Distributing Company, Tom Pepin, also released a statement:

The Pepin family is devastated by this tragic accident.
Craig was not only a respected and dedicated educator, but also a great father and friend.
Under his inspired leadership, Pepin Academies has grown to better the lives of students with learning-related disabilities.
Craig was a wonderful and infectious educator, whose passion for his staff and students was evident every day.
He inspired countless students to realize their full potential and achieve their goals, both in and outside of the classroom.
I am heartbroken and ask everyone to pray that Teagan can make a full recovery.
It's unclear what led up to the crash.
FWC said it is actively investigating the incident.
Click for more from Fox 13.
The pastor shouted "Run, run, gunshots!"
and congregants hid under pews or in bathrooms as a masked man armed with two guns opened fire at a Tennessee church, killing one person and wounding six before being subdued.
Burnette Chapel Church of Christ member Minerva Rosa said members were talking about the success of their yard sale the previous day when they heard gunshots Sunday outside the building in a Nashville neighborhood.
The church pastor, David Spann, 60, then shouted for everyone to run, according to a witness.
The gunman entered the church from the back after fatally shooting a woman outside, police said.
He then walked through the church silently, shooting six more people before an usher subdued him, police said.
Police later recovered another pistol and a shotgun from the suspect's vehicle.
Rosa said the reading that day had been from Luke, Chapter 8, and she recalled the part about a woman who touched Jesus and was cured of bleeding.
By the end of the shooting, she was on her knees, her dress stained with blood, putting pressure on the gunshot wound in Pastor Spann's chest.
She and others got on their phones to call 911.
Another church member, a 22-year-old usher named Robert Engle, tackled the gunman and suffered injuries when he was pistol whipped.
In the struggle, the shooter shot himself, although it wasn't clear if it was on purpose or an accident.
Engle retrieved his own gun from his car and held the man until police arrived, police said.
"He's amazing," Rosa told reporters about Engle.
"Without him I think it could be worse.
He was the hero today."
Authorities identified the attacker as Emanuel Kidega Samson, 25, of Murfreesboro, who came to the United States from Sudan in 1996 and is a legal U.S. resident.
Samson will have his first court appearance Wednesday, WMSV-TV reported, citing court records.
According to an arrest affidavit, Samson waived his rights and told police he arrived at the church armed and fired upon the building Sunday.
No motive was immediately determined.
Church members told investigators the suspect had attended services a year or two ago, said Don Aaron, a spokesman for the Metro Nashville Police Department.
Nashville police did not immediately comment on several bizarre posts on the suspect's Facebook page in the hours before the shooting.
The gunman pulled into the church's parking lot as services were ending.
Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tennessee, was killed when the shooter opened fire in the parking lot.
Spann's wife, Peggy, 65, was also shot as well as William and Marlene Jenkins, 83 and 84 respectively, Linda Bush, 68, and Katherine Dickerson, 64.
Police said none of the surviving victims suffered life-threatening injuries.
Aaron called Engle "an extraordinarily brave individual."
But in a statement Engle said he did not want to be labeled a hero.
"The real heroes are the police, first responders and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected."
Engle asked for prayers for all those injured as well as the shooter.
Blake Langford, 21, got a text from his father telling him not to come to the church where his family attended after the shooting.
"My grandmother hid under a church pew.
My stepmom and my aunt, they barricaded themselves in the bathroom," Langford said he learned from his father, who arrived at the church seconds after the shooting ended.
Langford said he knew Engle and believed his actions saved lives.
"He's 6 foot 5, a really big guy, but a gentle giant," Langford said.
"He's always been that kind of person to put others before himself."
Forty-two people were at the church at the time of the shooting, Aaron said.
The church describes itself on its website as a "friendly, Bible-based group of folks who love the Lord and are interested in spreading his word to those who are lost."
Photos on the church's Facebook page show a diverse congregation with people of various ages and ethnicities.
On Samson's Facebook page, a post in the hours before the shooting read, "Everything you've ever doubted or made to be believe as false, is real.
& vice versa, B."
Another post read, "Become the creator instead of what's created.
Whatever you say, goes."
And a third post read, "You are more than what they told us."
Police charged Samson Sunday night with one count of murder and said multiple charges were pending.
He was ordered held without bond by a judicial commissioner.
In addition, federal agents have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
After the attack, the nearby New Beautiful Gate Church opened its doors to Burnette Chapel churchgoers as they reunited with loved ones.
New Beautiful Gate Pastor Michael Mosby said he is neighbors with Spann.
"As a pastor myself, you come with the expectation of sitting down and having a service and not thinking about what can happen around you," Mosby said.
"You never know who is going to come to the door or what reasons they would come to the door, come to your church and do something like that.
We're always on guard.
We just thank God many more weren't hurt."
___

Raby reported from Charleston, West Virginia.
The trees of the International Cacao Collection grow here in an astonishing diversity of forms, bearing skinny cacao pods with scorpion-stinger protrusions, spherical green pods that could be mistaken for tomatillos, oblong pods with bumpy skin resembling that of the horned lizard  all in colors ranging from deep purple to bright yellow.
Within each of these pods are seeds that yield something beloved by billions: chocolate.
But despite this diversity, few cacao varieties are widely cultivated, and that's a problem: Like many other crops, cacao is under constant threat from diseases and environmental challenges exacerbated by our tendency to grow only a few varieties with similar or identical genetic traits and defects.
More from New York Times:

Fueled by Trump's tweets, anthem protests grow to a nationwide rebuke

Puerto Rico's agriculture and farmers decimated by Maria

Birds beware: The praying mantis wants your brain

"Most varieties produced worldwide belong to a narrow set of clones selected in the forties," said Wilbert Phillips-Mora, who oversees this collection of 1,235 types of cacao trees and heads the Cacao Genetic Improvement Program at C.A.T.I.E.
(an acronym in Spanish for the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center).
A narrow gene pool means that most commonly cultivated varieties of cacao are susceptible to the same diseases, and these blights can spread quickly.
Cacao production brought relative prosperity to the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica until the late 1970s, when farmers began to notice that pods on their trees were developing a fuzzy white fungal coating and eventually mummifying.
The fungus  Moniliophthora roreri, also called monilia or frosty pod rot  soon spread around the country, and by 1983 Costa Rican exports of dry cacao beans had declined by 96 percent.
The industry here has never recovered.
The calypso singer Walter Ferguson even wrote about it.
"Monilia, you've come to stay," he sang, "and all you bring is hungry belly/You say you no going away, 'til you bring me down to poverty."
Folk songs about fungi may be rare, but the devastation to the region's primary industry was profound.
And though the Costa Rican outbreak is history, the fungus continues to spread.
"For me, the cacao industry is in permanent risk, because intentionally or unintentionally this disease could be spread in just one flight," said Dr. Phillips-Mora.
Increasing travel and commerce in the developing world have provided new pathways for infection.
He believes the most recent confirmed outbreak  in Jamaica in September 2016  may have been the result of marijuana traffickers moving covertly between Costa Rica and Jamaica, unwittingly grabbing infected cacao pods as snacks for the boat ride home.
That outbreak was the first confirmed outside of Latin America, and it has demonstrated the fungus' ability to survive more distant travel than previously known.
Other cacao-producing regions, such as West Africa  the source of virtually all the cacao that ends up in mass-produced products like Hershey's Kisses and M&M's  may face similar outbreaks.
Even without frosty pod rot, cacao is a problematic crop.
Other diseases  witches' broom, black pod, cacao swollen-shoot virus  also afflict the tree.
Climate change promises to further exacerbate problems with tropical plant pathogens.
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Mora's project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
Gold surged Monday after North Korea's foreign minister accused U.S. President Donald Trump of declaring war.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York on Monday the U.S.' alleged declaration gives North Korea the right to strike back.
Actions could include shooting down U.S. bombers, he said, even when they are not inside the North Korean airspace.
Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.72 percent on the news at $1,306.70 an ounce in a sudden move following the foreign minister's comments.
They were trading down by about 0.05 percent beforehand.
The price of bitcoin rose sharply on Monday with its price spiking up 7 percent Monday morning, according to CoinDesk market data.
The price of the cryptocurrency is up nearly 300 percent year to date.
It was unclear what was behind Monday's sudden move higher.
Bitcoin is still under the $4,000 level, which it broke through after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said on Sept. 12 that the cryptocurrency is a "fraud" that will eventually blow up.
In addition, recent reports said regulators in China have ordered bitcoin exchanges to close hurt the digital currency's price.
Brent crude oil hit a new 2017 high on Monday, continuing a rally fueled by improving demand and expectations that producers will extend output cuts.
International benchmark Brent rose $1.52, or 2.7 percent, to $58.38 by 11:25 a.m.
ET, having touched the highest level since July, 2015.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude remained well below its 2017 high, but topped $51 a barrel for the first time in four months.
It was last trading up $1.06, or 2.1 percent, at $51.72.
OPEC and other oil exporters declined on Friday to extend their agreement to limit production in a bid to drain a global glut that has weighed on prices for three years.
However, some analysts believe it's only a matter of time before the cartel agrees to an extension.
"The market anticipates that OPEC and non-OPEC [exporters] are going to continue with their production cuts through 2018," said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates.
OPEC has now achieved its goal of flipping Brent crude's market structure into so-called backwardation, said Francisco Blanch, head of commodities and derivatives research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
In backwardation, prices for future delivery are cheaper than the cost of oil for immediate shipment.
Backwardation signals the market is tightening and discourages oil traders from stockpiling barrels.
However, analysts warned that exporters whose budgets are dependent on oil revenues will be tempted to pump above agreed-upon levels as Brent crude nears $60 a barrel.
"Even at these prices levels, they're still bleeding cash.
So they want more money and I think the incentive to stay together starts to decrease," Blanch told CNBC's "Squawk Box" in Asia.
The market is increasingly focused on the demand outlook, after the International Energy Agency and OPEC both raised their forecasts for global oil consumption, analysts tell CNBC.
"In spite of increases from U.S. shale production, that kind of increase is enough to sop up" excess oil supply, Lipow said.
Resurgent production from U.S. shale oil producers, who use advanced drilling methods, has played a major role in delaying the market rebalancing.
Higher oil prices this year have encouraged American drillers to pump more, but there are signs the U.S. recovery is slowing.
After aiming its weapons at the U.S. capital, North Korea's propaganda is now presenting the destruction of military targets, U.S. fighter jets and supercarriers.
A video released by the state-controlled website DPRK Today Sunday opens with images of President Donald Trump giving a speech on the occasion of the U.S. Air Force's 70th Anniversary at Joint Base Andrews, with ominous music playing in the background and text branding Trump a "madman."
The video then moves on to show ground-launched and submarine-launched North Korean missiles targeting the U.S. F-35 and B-1B aircrafts as well as the USS Carl Vinson, a nuclear-powered flattop.
More from Newsweek:

'Islam conversion saved my life': Al-Qaeda hostage in Mali recounts six-year desert ordeal

'Nazis out:' Germans protest far-right AFT Party's historic election result

Why Donald Trump is like ISIS, according to London Mayor Sadiq Khan

Doctored images show both the jets and the vessel going up in flames, as well as the burning of an American flag on the backdrop of white crosses typical of American cemeteries.
"Should F-35, B-1B and the Carl Vinson lead the U.S. attack, they will head to the grave in that order," the subtitles read, translated by the South Korean news agency Yonhap.
The latest release of propaganda images came a few hours after the U.S. flew B-1B Lancer bombers from the airbase in the U.S. island of Guam, along with F-15C Eagle fighter escorts from Japan, into international airspace over waters east of North Korea in a show of force.
The U.S. Department of Defense said it was the furthest north of the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) U.S. fighter of bomber aircraft have flown off the North Korean coast this century.
This showed "the seriousness with which we take DPRK's reckless behavior," the Pentagon said in a statement, referring to North Korea with its official name, Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK).
"This mission is a demonstration of U.S. resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," the statement added.
Tensions between the U.S. and North Korea continue to flare as the North Korean and the American leaders exchanged insults and threats over the past week.
Speaking at the U.N. General Assembly Saturday, North Korea foreign minister Ri Yong Ho warned that Trump's labeling of Kim Jong Un as "rocket man" made "our rockets' visit to the entire U.S. mainland inevitable."
saying that if Ri echoed "the thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
The North Korean state-controlled media have been using Trump's aggressive rhetoric to undermine his position as a world leader and justify Pyongyang's pursuit of nuclear weapons.
An article published by the state-run KCNA news agency Monday quoted Ri Chang Yong, head of a department of Pyongyang University of Foreign Studies, calling Trump "not a politician but a villain."
The article then concluded: "The DPRK, possessed of the strongest nuclear weapons and military hardware, will surely and mercilessly exterminate those Trump-led war maniacs."
North Korea says it has a right to shoot down US bombers 7 Mins Ago | 01:19

North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused President Donald Trump of declaring war, saying that gives the rogue regime the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Pyongyang could target planes even when they are not flying in North Korean airspace, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York.
"The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country," he said.
"Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country," he added.
On Saturday, American bombers flew in international airspace east of North Korea in a symbolic show of military force.
The comments come amid an escalation of rhetoric between Pyongyang and Washington as the international community tries to end North Korean nuclear and missile programs.
Trump's first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly last week prompted a string of harsh warnings and threats.
It culminated Saturday in Trump saying the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, who Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
On Monday, Ri claimed that comment was a declaration of war.
Ri also inflamed tensions following Trump's defiant remarks to the U.N. last week.
On Saturday, he called Trump "President Evil" and claimed that economic sanctions will not deter Pyongyang's pursuit of nuclear weapons and a "balance of power with the U.S."

Trump on Tuesday said the U.S. would have "no choice but to totally destroy North Korea" if it is forced to defend itself or its allies.
The president and his top advisors have repeatedly said they could take military action in response to a string of missile tests, but prefer a diplomatic resolution.
On Thursday, Trump signed an executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
He hopes the measure will help to cut off Pyongyang's funding sources for its nuclear and missile programs.
The central bank in China  North Korea's only major ally  also told its banks to strictly implement U.N. sanctions.
The American sanctions followed unanimous economic sanctions packages imposed by the U.N. Security Council.
Trump has said he supports the "complete denuclearization" of North Korea.
Reuters contributed to this report
It could be said that the underlying winner of Germany's election Sunday was ultimately the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, which saw the largest increase in voter share of all of the country's main political parties.
In fact, while the anti-immigrant, anti-euro party saw a 7.9 percentage point increase from the last election in 2013 (the year the AfD was formed), Germany's main parties  Merkel's conservative CDU/CSU alliance and its former coalition partner, the Social Democratic Party (SDP)  both saw their votes fall dramatically.
As the AfD enters Germany's parliament for the first time, here are five things you need to know:
Berliners voted to keep the historic Tegel airport open even after a new international hub is completed, creating a headache for the German capital's government, which wanted it closed.
Tegel sprang up in just 90 days in 1948 to support the Berlin Airlift, a huge operation to ship supplies and thwart a Cold War Soviet blockade.
It is much-loved by many Berliners and business travellers for its proximity to the city center.
Berlin's government will now have to rethink its plans to close Tegel after some 56 percent of voters supported the non-binding referendum on Sunday, the same day as Germany's federal election, to reconsider the proposal.
This had envisaged the closing of Tegel six months after the Berlin Brandenburg International (BER) airport - a grand project bedeviled by repeated construction and planning problems - finally starts operating.
It still has no fixed opening date.
Michael Mueller, Berlin's mayor said the result created a "very, difficult situation" and told rbb radio he would now talk to the airport's state owners about taking a different approach that could be "legally and financially challenging."
Iraqi Kurds cast ballots on Monday in their autonomous region and in a wide sweep of captured territories on whether to seek independence from Baghdad, a historic vote that has also raised tensions and fears of instability.
The referendum is non-binding and will not immediately bring independence, but it would mark a definitive stance by the Kurds to break away, and Kurdish leaders say they will use a "yes" vote to press for negotiations with Iraq's central government to win statehood.
From Istanbul, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened military intervention in Iraq in response to the vote, stressing that Kurdish independence was unacceptable to his country and that this was a "matter of survival."
The Iraqi Kurdish push for independence has been made even more combustible because Kurdish forces captured extensive territories in fighting with the Islamic State group in the past year.
Those territories run from northwest Iraq across the country to the Iranian border on the east  including the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.
Baghdad claims those territories, but the Kurds say they are part of their zone and residents there are participating in Monday's vote.
More than 3 million people are expected to vote across the three provinces that officially make up the Iraqi Kurdish autonomous region and in the disputed territories, according to the Independent High Elections and Referendum Commission, the body overseeing the vote.
Lines began forming early in the day at polling stations across Irbil, the Kurdish regional capital.
Tahsin Karim was one of the first people to vote in his Irbil neighborhood.
"Today we came here to vote in the referendum for the independence of Kurdistan," he said.
"We hope that we can achieve independence."
The European Central Bank is becoming more confident that inflation will rise back to its target but the euro zone still requires substantial stimulus, ECB President Mario Draghi said on Monday.
The medium term outlook is also clouded by uncertainty, including from the recent volatility in the euro's exchange rate, Draghi told the European Parliament's committee on economic affairs in a speech that is largely consistent with the bank's September policy statement.
"Overall, we are becoming more confident that inflation will eventually head to levels in line with our inflation aim, but we also know that a very substantial degree of monetary accommodation is still needed for the upward inflation path to materialize," Draghi said.
Mark Cuban: Trump should have said nothing about national anthem protests in NFL 2 Hours Ago | 02:00

Mark Cuban, owner of the NBA's Dallas Mavericks, told CNBC on Monday that President Donald Trump should have said nothing about NFL players protesting during the national anthem.
"Why even comment before you know what you're talking about?"
the billionaire investor said in an interview on "Squawk on the Street."
Cuban said the NFL has always been involved in politics at some level.
Trump's criticism on Twitter of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked angry protests around the NFL on Sunday.
The president on Sunday told reporters the protests were "very disrespectful to the flag," and that owners should do something about them.
He also insisted his position was "not about race," even as much of the criticism directed at him carried racial overtones.
"Just because you have a Twitter account doesn't mean you have to use it," Cuban said.
"Just because you can say something, doesn't mean you should."
When asked whether he thinks the president is going to apologize, Cuban said: "The president is not going to apologize.
Are you kidding me?
The president should read a book."
"If he dishes it out, he's got to be able to take it," Cuban added.
Cuban, who supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election, has criticized Trump over issues and Trump has blasted Cuban likewise.
Trump on Sunday called for fans to demonstrate their own form of protest  by boycotting NFL games unless the league fires players who kneel during the national anthem.
"This is nothing new.
We want to listen to the players' feedback," Cuban said.
"The only thing that's changed now is the president is getting involved."
Cuban said he has always tried to be open with players about what their feelings are and how they want to participate in the community.
The firestorm started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last season to protest the treatment of African-Americans in the United States.
He is no longer in the NFL.
Here's what a former ambassador thinks would happen if the US strikes North Korea 15 Mins Ago | 00:53

The Trump Administration continues to pound away at North Korea, insisting military options are on the table, but so far the threats have not stopped Pyongyang from pursuing tests of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.
"The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea," said President Donald Trump at a speech to the UN General Assembly (UNGA) in New York on Tuesday.
"Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime," he said.
"Rocket man' refers to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
Trump warned last month that "all options are on the table" after the North launched a missile designed to carry a nuclear payload over U.S. ally Japan.
That was followed by Pyongyang's 6th nuclear weapons test on September 3rd, and 12 days later, North Korea launched a second missile over Japan, just days after the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) imposed new sanctions against the North.
Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley told CNN on Sunday that the UNSC has "pretty much exhausted" all its options, but indicated Defense Secretary Jim Mattis "has plenty of military options."
And on CBS, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said, "If our diplomatic efforts fall through, our military option is the only one left."
Earlier this month, Mattis said the U.S. will answer any threat from North Korea with a "massive military response, a response both effective and overwhelming."
On Monday, when asked at a news conference about whether the U.S. has military options for North Korea that would not put Seoul at risk, Mattis said, "Yes there are.
But I will not go into details."
Meanwhile, Kim Jong-un has vowed to continue the North's weapons programs, saying the country is getting close to its goal of "equilibrium" to match U.S. military force.
The Cipher Brief's Kaitlin Lavinder asked Ambassador Joseph DeTrani, the former special envoy for Six Party Talks with North Korea and the former director of the National Counterproliferation Center, if he thinks a military solution is possible  and what the consequences would be.
The Cipher Brief: As the bellicose rhetoric from both the U.S. and North Korea continues, the U.S. is signaling that all options  including a military one  are on the table.
Is there a realistic military solution?
Ambassador Joseph DeTrani: Given North Korea's provocative and threatening behavior, with 16 missiles launched this year, including an ICBM [intercontinental ballistic missile] and IRBM [intermediate range ballistic missile], a likely hydrogen bomb test, their sixth nuclear test, and the vitriolic hyperbole from Pyongyang, it's understandable that "all options are on the table" in dealing with North Korea.
Ideally, talks that halt the North's nuclear program and pursue comprehensive denuclearization is the preferred option.
However, if North Korean leader Kim Jung-un eschews talks, then we should be prepared to intercept and destroy any ballistic missile that poses an imminent threat to the U.S. or its allies.
A declaratory statement should be sent to Pyongyang making it clear that any "imminent threat" will generate a pre-emptive strike, and Pyongyang should think twice about any response to this pre-emptive strike.
In response, it's possible Kim Jung-un would provoke an attack on the Northern Limit Line (NLL)  similar to the Cheong An incident in 2010, when the North attacked a South Korean frigate, killing 46 sailors  or attack a South Korean island, as they also did in 2010.
TCB: What would a military solution look like?
What would be the consequences?
DeTrani: If the U.S. were to conduct a "preventive" attack against a base or facility to deny the North the ability to attack, then I think they would retaliate in a more ferocious way, using conventional weapons to attack Seoul, at a minimum.
TCB: Would the U.S. risk this  an attack on a close ally, Seoul?
DeTrani: I can't foresee North Korea attacking Seoul if we intercepted a missile posing an imminent threat to the U.S. or South Korea.
This is an internationally accepted responsibility of any government to protect his/her country and people.
Seoul and Tokyo should understand and concur with this approach, given that missile defense systems are in South Korea and Japan.
To not respond to an imminent threat is the height of weakness, confirming we're a paper tiger.
This would then encourage more aggression from North Korea if we didn't have a pre-emptive policy of intercepting and destroying any missile viewed as an imminent threat.
TCB: What should the U.S. do?
DeTrani: More missile defense deployments, enhanced joint military exercises with South Korea (which should also include Japan), additional sanctions and secondary sanctions, and more information into North Korea, with a declared pre-emption policy, is the approach I would recommend, if North Korea refuses to halt its nuclear and missile programs and enter into exploratory discussions with the U.S. and possibly South Korea.
This interview was originally published on The Cipher Brief.
Kaitlin Lavinder is a reporter at The Cipher Brief.
Follow her on Twitter @KaitLavinder.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow @CNBCopinion on Twitter.
Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi admitted the firm "got things wrong" Monday in a plea to London after the ride-hailing app was stripped of its license to operate in Britain's capital city.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Uber's CEO said in an open letter published in the U.K.'s Evening Standard newspaper Monday.
Khosrowshahi added: "On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
His apology follows a decision by London transport authority Transport for London (TfL) to revoke the taxi start-up of its license to operate in the city last Friday.
The former Expedia CEO, who has served as Uber's CEO for almost a month, said Uber would "work with London to make things right."
TfL's shock decision not to renew Uber's private hire vehicle license dealt a huge blow to the start-up.
Uber said it would appeal the decision, and has reportedly hired a top British lawyer, Thomas de la Mare, to fight its case.
Relations between Iran and the U.S. grew more strained over the weekend after the Middle Eastern country successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers.
The Khorramshahr missile test took place Saturday; Iran state media said it could carry several warheads.
The weapon was first seen during a military parade Friday, during which Iran's President Hassan Rouhani promised to boost his country's missile arsenal.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," Rouhani said Friday in a speech broadcast on state television, according to Reuters.
The country's determination to expand its missile capabilities will remain a main source of friction between Washington and Tehran, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at Verisk Maplecroft.
"As Iran's missile program is beyond the scope of the 2015 nuclear agreement, both sides have seized on the issue to assert their national interests while still operating within the confines of the deal," he told CNBC via email.
"For Rouhani, reasserting Iran's ballistic missile ambitions provides cover against hard-line critics that see the nuclear agreement as a capitulation to world powers."
Following the missile launch Saturday, the U.S. imposed new unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying the test violated a UN resolution, according to Reuters.
On Sunday, President Donald Trump signed a presidential order that kept travel restrictions on Iran, along with seven other countries.
The order blocks nearly all visas from Iran except for students and exchange visitors.
On Saturday, Trump criticized the missile test on social media.
Soltvedt said the missile tests allow Trump to expand sanctions against the country without violating the Iran nuclear deal.
"The net result is that Washington and Tehran are accusing each other of not living up to the spirit of the nuclear agreement," he said.
President Trump has previously criticized the agreement.
During his address to the UN last week, he said the U.S. could not abide by the agreement if it provides cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Soltvedt added that missile tests would strain relations with Iran's Middle East neighbors.
"There is no doubt that Iran is in the ascendancy in the geopolitical battle for influence in the Middle East.
Iran's ongoing efforts to boost its ballistic missile capabilities will only heighten the sense of insecurity among regional rivals," he said.
"While Iran's more assertive regional stance has put it on a collision course first and foremost with Saudi Arabia and the U.S., the pivotal role it plays in the Syrian conflict is also increasingly raising tensions with Israel."
Apple investors are now suffering from an unusual condition: loss of money.
After surging as much as 42 percent from the end of 2016 to the beginning of September, Apple has seen a bracing series of losses.
The stock slid 5 percent last week alone, for its worst weekly performance in more than a year.
Recent concerns have revolved around Apple's new iPhone 8 and iPhone X products, which were unveiled on Sept. 12.
Mild reviews for the iPhone 8 and talk of short lines for the product appear to have taken some wind out of the stock's sails.
Yet Wall Street analysts, always a group somewhat predisposed toward looking on the bright side, say the lack of enthusiasm could actually be a bullish indicator.
"Any Weakness for Early Sales of iPhone 8 Could Be a Case of 'Short-term Pain for Long-Term Gain,'" Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson advised in a Friday note.
He explained that "potential buyers may wait for iPhone X," and that since the X will tend to be about $250 more expensive than the 8, "a mix shift toward iPhone X, even to the detriment of near-term iPhone 8 units, is positive for Apple."
The future seems a little more uncertain for the euro following the outcome of the German election.
The common currency has been under pressure since markets opened Monday after provisional results showed a weakened Angela Merkel and a surging far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party that gained its first seats in parliament.
The currency fell 0.6 against the dollar for the session, trading at $1.1872 at around 1:00 p.m. London time.
Traders seem divided when it comes to the euro's performance in the near term, but point out that the European Central Bank (ECB) will still be the ultimate underlying factor for the currency.
"The reaction in the EUR and in the credit markets is predictable, but with the ECB still a powerful force in the European debt markets, the moves are unlikely to turn violent," Stephen Gallo, European head of FX strategy at BMO Financial Group, said in a note.
Sunday's vote surprised many traders with a more fragmented German parliament.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote, down from 41.5 percent in the previous election.
The pro-business FDP party, which placed fourth with 10.7 percent of the votes, has said it is open for coalition talks with Merkel's CDU.
The Greens are set to join coalition talks too, which could ultimately form Germany's first four-party government in decades.
However, coalition talks will not be easy.
At the same time, the far-right AfD beat pollsters' predications and got 12.6 percent of the vote share.
The ad, created with The VIA Agency, was produced using photochromic ink.
"As part of L.L.Bean's 'Be an Outsider' campaign, The VIA Agency wrote a manifesto to serve as an invitation to all people to join L.L.Bean outside, because outside is where we all belong," a spokesperson for The VIA Agency told CNBC in an emailed statement.
Bean is positioning itself as an outdoor brand focused less on individual pursuits and more on family and friends enjoying the outdoors, according to a report by the Associated Press.
Innovation in advertising is often connected to new technology online, such as automatic placement of ads on websites.
But this isn't the first time a brand has experimented with more traditional press or print formats.
In January, Mars brand Maltesers put braille on a poster at a London bus shelter as part of its effort to promote inclusivity in advertising, while in April the Indian government released a coffee-scented stamp encouraging people to mail their families.
Bean, founded in 1912 by Leon Leonwood Bean, has annual sales of $1.6 billion, according to its website.
The family-run, privately-held company does not release full financial information.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he would dissolve parliament's lower house on Thursday for a snap election, seeking a mandate to stick to his tough stance towards a volatile North Korea and rebalance the social security system.
Abe, in power for five years, had been expected to call the election for next month to take advantage of improved support and disarray in the opposition camp.
"I'll demonstrate strong leadership and stand at the forefront to face a national crisis," Abe told reporters, mentioning Japan's fast-ageing population and North Korea.
"This is my responsibility as leader and my mission as prime minister."
Natsuo Yamaguchi, the head of Abe's junior coalition partner the Komeito party, said he understood the election would be on Oct. 22.
Abe said he would redirect some revenue from a planned sales tax hike in 2019 to child care and education rather than paying back public debt, although he added he would not abandon fiscal reform.
Rebalancing the spending would offset the potential negative effect on consumption from the tax rise, he said.
The final turbine for the Nordsee One offshore wind farm has been installed and commercial operations are set to commence by the end of this year.
Tim Kittelhake, managing director and COO of Nordsee One, said in an announcement at the end of last week that turbine installation had been completed within seven months.
The site is located in the North Sea, around 40 kilometers to the north of the island of Juist.
The scale of the project is significant, with the turbines measuring approximately 150 meters from sea level to blade tip.
According to Nordsee One its 54 turbines will generate, on average, 1.2 billion kilowatt hours per year and supply the equivalent of around 400,000 average homes with green electricity.
This will help to save more than one million tons of CO2 when compared with a "conventional" coal fired plant.
"Most of the turbines are already feeding green electricity into the grid," Pierre Lestienne, managing director and CFO of Nordsee One, said in a statement.
"We are very pleased with our progress so far.
With another project milestone behind us, we remain focused on advancing the project into commercial operation."
Europe is something of a world leader in offshore wind.
According to the Global Wind Energy Council, the U.K. is home to the largest offshore wind market in the world, closely followed by Germany.
Earlier this month, Dong Energy announced it had been awarded a contract to construct the world's largest offshore wind farm, Hornsea Project Two, off the east coast of England.
The development will have enough capacity to power more than 1.3 million homes in the U.K.
Swiss power grid maker ABB will pay $2.6 billion for General Electric's Industrial Solutions business, it was announced Monday.
Chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told CNBC he is "very confident" that ABB can build the unit back to a strong position.
Spiesshofer said the unit, which has an EBITDA margin of only 6 percent, has strong roots and brand legacy, but the problem is it was a non-core business in GE's portfolio.
"You know what happens to non-core businesses.
They don't get enough oxygen and they don't prosper.
For us, this business is absolutely right in the sweet-spot," he told CNBC's Squawk Box.
"We are very confident that, jointly with the GE Industrial Solutions team, we will shape this business back to a strong position."
GE's Industrial Solutions business makes circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment, which overlaps with ABB's portfolio.
The unit had sales of $2.7 billion in 2016, but its operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization are just 6 percent of sales, compared to ABB's 15 percent operating margin.
Spiesshofer said he had received many calls from customers to congratulate him on the acquisition and saying ABB is the right home for the business.
He also addressed how ABB will boost profit margins at the unit.
"We need to live up to that now and the way we will do it is harmonize the product and technology portfolio.
We have leading edge solutions on the digital side," he said.
"Secondly, we have an overlapping footprint and we will do some restructuring in this context, but we will do this in a responsible way like ABB always does it and we will try to find a home for the very good people at GE in the growing parts of our business."
ABB expects $200 million of annual cost benefits from the acquisition deal and anticipates $400 million of integration costs.
The Zurich-based company's stock price rose 0.42 percent on news of the deal.
Reuters contributed to this report.
Berlin might be over 4,000 miles away from Washington DC but Sunday's election in Germany and forthcoming negotiations over a future coalition government will be closely monitored in the U.S. capital.
Analysts, however, predict that the "world views" of U.S. President Donald Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel will remain at odds.
Merkel's conservative Christian alliance won the largest share of the vote, with 33 percent, although it lost a lot of ground to the far-right, anti-immigrant and anti-euro party Alternative for Germany (AfD), which garnered 12.6 percent of the vote and is to enter the German parliament for the first time.
Merkel's CDU/CSU alliance has vowed not to form a coalition government with the AfD, meaning that it has to turn to smaller parties for support, namely the pro-business Free Democratic Party (FDP) and the Greens.
Domestically, and in Europe, the coalition parties that form a government could determine how much Germany is willing to support ever closer political and economic union in the euro zone (the FDP is not keen).
On an international level though, Merkel's foreign policy stance towards the U.S.  one of trying to get Washington to stick to an international climate agreement drawn up in Paris in 2016 and maintaining transatlantic trade and investment  is likely to stay the same, analysts and diplomats noted.
British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
It's closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germany's Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
"There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat," said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since it's founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers' rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Hero's market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eat's valuation is 4.66 billion pounds.
Although Merkel's CDU/CSU alliance won the highest share of the vote, it has not won enough that it can govern alone, meaning it will have to find coalition partners from smaller parties in order to form a four-party government not seen in Germany for decades.
On a practical level too, the Bundestag has 30 days to convene following the election and then the parliament itself must elect the chancellor, although this will be Merkel, as Germany's biggest party always puts forward its leader as the candidate for chancellor.
The CDU/CSU's former junior coalition partner, the SPD, said it would quit the "grand coalition" of the last four years and would instead go into opposition following its dismal election result.
Calling the result a "bitter loss," Reuters reported, Martin Schulz, formerly head of the European parliament, said he would stay on as the party's leader.
However, after what has been generally viewed as a lackluster election campaign, whether that position is tenable in the long-term remains to be seen.
All political parties ruled out a coalition with the nationalist AfD party and setting aside the SDP, the most likely coalition is the so-called "Jamaica" option with the CDU/CSU approaching the pro-business Free Democratic Party (FDP), which gained 10.7 percent of the vote, and the Greens, which gained 8.9 percent.
The process of trying to form a governing coalition could take months, according to Societe Generale's research team Guy Stear and Brian Hilliard  and could affect the wider direction of the European Union (EU).
"With a poor election result for the CDU and SPD we expect the forming of a new coalition to take longer than usual.
In addition, with strong results for both the AfD and the FDP, we suspect that Germany's EU policies will be more cautious and restrictive, irrespective of which coalition takes office," they said in a note Monday.
Unilever has agreed to buy cosmetics firm Carver Korea for 2.27 billion euros ($2.71 billion) from Goldman Sachs, Bain Capital and the company's founder as it expands its beauty and personal care business.
The Anglo-Dutch company announced the deal on Monday, saying Carver was the fastest-growing skincare business in South Korea, through sales of its A.H.C brand.
Unilever said the range includes "Eye Cream for Face", along with essences, toners, moisturizers, masks, and sun protection.
Bain and Goldman Sachs jointly bought a roughly 60 percent majority stake in Carver for around $500 million last year, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday.
Carver Korea, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs were not available for immediate comment.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday ordered his cabinet to compile new economic stimulus measures in a package worth around 2 trillion yen ($17.80 billion) by the end of the year.
Speaking at a meeting with his top advisory panel, Abe said the package should focus on subsidising education, child-care costs, and on boosting corporate investments to improve productivity.
Abe is expected to announce a snap election later on Monday to take advantage of improved ratings and disorganized opposition parties, and the stimulus package could be a way to lure voters during the election campaign.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote, provisional votes showed, down from 41.5 percent in the previous election.
The pro-business FDP party, which placed fourth with 10.7 percent of the votes, has said it is open for coalition talks with Merkel's CDU.
The Greens are set to join coalition talks too, which could ultimately form Germany's first four-party government in decades.
In German politics, it's usually the case that the largest party chooses the chancellor, and the second largest group picks the next post.
As such, the FDP could opt for the Finance Ministry and put an end to Schaeuble's eight-year reign.
The future for Schaeuble is "the question" from a market perspective, Carsten Nickel, managing director at Teneo Intelligence, told CNBC Monday.
"In the end, I think there is probably very little alternative to Schaeuble, right now, at least in terms of individual politicians.
There's nobody who really comes to mind as the key person who would challenge him for that role.
I wouldn't be surprised if he stays on in the end," he said.
If Germany were to lose Schaeuble as Finance minister, the current momentum for further euro zone integration could also be damaged.
"What it means for Germany's stance on further euro zone integration is too early to tell.
If the FDP will join a coalition, expect a much slower integration process and many cold showers for (French President Emmanuel) Macron," Brzeski said, referring to plans from Macron to deepen economic and financial ties.
"I don't think that the FDP can implement its own views, but it will definitely slow down any new steps towards more integration," he added, given the FDP's view goes against what Macron and other EU leaders want to implement.
The 75-year-old Schaeuble hasn't given any signs that he is ready to retire from politics.
If he loses the Finance Ministry, Merkel could still appoint him as the next speaker of the German Parliament.
The role would include fewer powers from those that Schaeuble currently has, but it could become more important now that the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party won its first ever parliamentary seats.
Ireland will leverage on its imminent position as Europe's only English-speaking country to secure big economic gains, according to Frances Fitzgerald, the country's deputy prime minister.
As the sole country sharing a land border with the United Kingdom, Ireland is widely expected to be the EU member worst-hit by Britain's exit from the European Union in 2019.
However, the country's economic outlook remains positive, according to Fitzgerald, who is also the country's minister for enterprise and innovation.
In fact, Britain's absence from the EU could increase Ireland's attractiveness as a destination for foreign businesses and investors  many of whom are already coming to the country, she told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday.
One region that could significantly strengthen economic ties with Ireland is Asia, according to Fitzgerald.
"We see ourselves as the perfect post-Brexit solution for Asia-Pacific countries," she told CNBC, adding that the number of Asian companies investing in her country has increased significantly.
"We see banking, technology and aviation companies all interested in doing business in Ireland  the only English-speaking country in the EU now, with the departure of the U.K.," said the minister.
She emphasized that Brexit was not Ireland's choice, but the EU's decision.
China may witness its first local government bond defaults, although the timing was uncertain, Fitch Ratings said in a press release issued on Sunday, amid persistent concerns over high debt levels in the world second largest economy.
These bonds were issued by Chinese local government financing vehicles (LGFVs), which were created by local authorities to bypass restrictions on borrowing.
There are concerns about the potential for a wave of defaults in China due to high local government debt, which could impact the financial markets and potentially spread a wave of contagion across the global economy.
The LGFVs have also borrowed from the Chinese shadow banking sector as official channels dried up due to the government's crackdown on leverage.
Shadow banking is a broad category of banking-like services from non-traditional players; it can include loans from non-financial companies as well as investment products.
It is outside the bounds of normal banking regulation, so it largely goes unregulated.
No Chinese LGFV has defaulted to date on its publicly traded debt so far, but the first defaults "are becoming more likely and will probably trigger a repricing of the market," Fitch said.
Fitch's warning comes after S&P Global Ratings downgraded China's long-term sovereign credit rating by one notch last week to A+ from AA-, citing increasing risks from the country's rapid build-up of credit.
Moody's Investors Service downgraded China's sovereign credit rating in May.
Despite the risk of LGFV bond defaults, Fitch said the overall risks are likely limited due to the government's "pervasive ownership and influence" across the financial system.
But the ratings agency said widespread defaults remained a tail risk, or a potential scenario with only a small probability of occurring.
"The authorities continue to rely on local government investmentsupported by LGFVsto hit economic growth targets, and have a broad spectrum of policy tools to limit default contagion," Fitch added.
"The authorities are in a position to prevent systemic defaults," said Fitch, including using the last resort of bailing out the LGFVs using fiscal resources.
The central government has been trying to "disentangle" LGFVs from public-sector balance sheets to contain financial risks through means such as instituting debt ceilings and providing swaps to convert LGFV debt into explicit government debt, Fitch noted.
LGFV debt, however, has continued to rise with 4 trillion yuan ($605 billion) worth of LGFV bonds issued since 2015 still outstanding, equivalent to 5.4 percent of China's gross domestic product.
Chinese authorities will likely to allow the lower quality LGFV bonds to fail, Fitch said.
"These would be LGFVs deemed most financially stretched by the authorities, and consist mostly of lower-tier (non-provincial) LGFVs, particularly those that mix commercial with policy activities, such as property with urban development," said Fitch.
China has already allowed some state-owned enterprises to default in the last few years, as the central government seeks to instill greater budget and market discipline.
Unprecedented is an overused word in financial markets  but this time it's justified.
Since the global financial crash, central banks have engaged in a global economic support operation like no other, with the world's three key organization's gorging on $15 trillion dollars of bond buying to save financial markets from themselves and prevent a recession that might have been  well, unprecedented!
As of this week's Federal Reserve meeting, we are now witnessing an unprecedented unwinding of those purchases.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen says the U.S. central bank will liquidate $10 billion of the bonds on its $4.5 trillion balance sheet every month.
The Fed chair believes the U.S. economy is strong enough to take it, and markets are robust enough to withstand the modest implicit tightening of monetary conditions, even as inflation is still short of the Fed's target.
The Fed has been preparing the markets for this move for months, in the hope that a gradual shift from quantitative easing (QE) to quantitative tightening (QT) will barely cause a ripple in the monetary pond.
But not everyone is convinced that the consequences of this move are obvious or predictable.
Back in July, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon warned of potential disruption saying: "We act like we know exactly how it's going to happen and we don't."
In other words, QT is a "known unknown"  there's a lot of good guess work but no one has done it before.
Angela Merkel's conservative bloc will be the largest party in the next German parliament, but provisional election results point to a worse-than-expected majority for the German chancellor.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote.
It would make them the largest parliamentary group, but that is down from 41.5 percent in the last election in 2013 and lower than recent polling.
It is also their worst result since 1949, according to Reuters.
Speaking after the exit polls, Merkel said her party had hoped for a better result at the federal election but was happy that it had achieved the main goals of the campaign.
She vowed to win back voters from the nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party.
The center-left Social Democrats (SPD), which are currently in a coalition with Merkel, slumped to 20.5 percent - a new post-war low.
Party leader Martin Schulz said it was a "bitter day" for Germany's social democrats.
He added that the result meant it was clear the party should go into opposition and he would seek re-election as party leader in December.
