(CNN) The ongoing war of words between the United States and North Korea saw several new fiery salvos Saturday, a day on which the US military, in a show of force, flew bombers in international airspace over waters east of North Korea.
The heated remarks also came on a day in which mysterious seismic activity in North Korea refueled concerns over the rogue nation's nuclear ambitions.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho, speaking before the United Nations, angrily responded to US President Donald Trump's UN remarks in which he referred to Kim Jong Un as "Rocket Man."
Meanwhile, analysts said that seismic activity detected near the site of North Korea's Punggye-ri nuclear site might be aftershocks from a nuclear test earlier this month .
Seismic activity is often the first indicator of a nuclear test , but the magnitudes Saturday were much smaller than anything declared as a nuclear test in previous years.
North Korea addresses UN, Trump tweets response

At the UN, Ri said that Trump had made a missile attack on the US mainland more inevitable by insulting the dignity of North Korea.
"None other than Trump himself is on a suicide mission," Ri said in a speech at the UN General Assembly.
"In case innocent lives of the US are harmed because of this suicide attack, Trump will be held totally responsible."
Trump took on Twitter Saturday night to respond to Ri's remarks.
"Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!," Trump wrote.
Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

The foreign minister also said the "dangerous reality (is) that the gambler who grew old using threats, frauds and all other schemes to acquire a patch of land holds the nuclear button.
These are what constitute the gravest threat to the international peace and security today."
JUST WATCHED Trump's war of words with Kim Jong Un Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's war of words with Kim Jong Un 02:45

Ri called Trump a "mentally deranged" person who used "reckless and violent words."
There was no other immediate response from the White House to Ri's remarks, but there were military manuevers.
The Pentagon said Saturday that B-1B Lancer bombers from Guam and F-15C Eagle fighter escorts from Okinawa, Japan, flew in international airspace over waters east of North Korea.
It's the farthest north of the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that US fighters or bomber aircraft have ever flown this century, the Pentagon said.
A U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer deployed from Ellsworth Air Force Base, South Dakota, prepares to take off from Andersen AFB, Guam, Sept. 23, 2017.
The flight underscored "the seriousness with which we take DPRK's reckless behavior," the Pentagon said, using an acronym for North Korea's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
"This mission is a demonstration of US resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement.
"North Korea's weapons program is a grave threat to the Asia-Pacific region and the entire international community.
We are prepared to use the full range of military capabilities to defend the US homeland and our allies."
War of words

There has been name-calling and heightened tensions between Washington and Pyongyang this week as the UN met in New York.
In his speech Tuesday Trump threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea if the US was forced to defend itself or an ally.
Trump tweeted Friday that Kim was "obviously a madman" who would be "tested like never before."
UN Secretary-General Antnio Guterres met with Ri on Saturday.
"The Secretary-General expressed concern over the tensions on the Korean Peninsula and appealed for de-escalation and full implementation of relevant Security Council resolutions," a statement from a UN spokesperson said.
"The Secretary-General emphasized the need for a political solution."
Throughout the week Washington and Pyongyang have had strong words for each other.
Earlier this week North Korea's Ri said his country could test a powerful nuclear weapon over the Pacific Ocean in response to Trump's threats of military action.
Those remarks came shortly after Kim Jong Un made an unprecedented televised statement, accusing Trump of being "mentally deranged."
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un delivers a rare statement in response to US President Donald Trump's speech to the United Nations.
In a rare direct statement, Kim said that Trump would "pay dearly" for the threats, and that North Korea "will consider with seriousness exercising of a corresponding, highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history."
"I am now thinking hard about what response he could have expected when he allowed such eccentric words to trip off his tongue," Kim said.
"I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged US dotard with fire."
Concerns over nuclear program

North Korea has been working on developing missiles that can reach the United States and its allies and pair them with a miniaturized nuclear warheads.
To comply with a UN Security Council resolution calling for sanctions over North Korea's nuclear activity, China said Friday that it will limit its exports of refined petroleum products to Pyongyang as well as ban imports of the North's textiles.
The Chinese Ministry of Commerce said in a written statement that it will restrict exports of refined petroleum products from October 1, and ban the export of condensate oil and liquefied natural gas immediately.
A ban on textile imports from the North will go into effect immediately, the statement said.
On Thursday, Trump announced new US sanctions to penalize any company or person doing business with North Korea by either cutting off their access to the US financial system or freezing their assets -- or potentially both.
Quakes near North Korean nuclear site

Scientists said they believe the seismic activity Saturday could have been caused by North Korea's sixth test of a nuclear weapon on September 3.
Analysts were working to determine whether the tremors detected near the Punggye-ri nuclear site were natural or man-made.
The Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Organization , a watchdog group that works to end nuclear testing worldwide, said there were two seismic events, neither of very large magnitude.
The larger one had a 3.4 magnitude, the group's initial assessment found.
"This geographical location is a non-seismically active zone.
The September 3 event would've weakened the zone, which could still have further repercussions, such as radioisotopes coming through possible subsequent cracks which would allow scientists to assess what type of materials were used," said Lassina Zerbo, the group's executive secretary.
The Korea Meteorological Administration also cited the possibility that the seismic activity Saturday occurred because of the geological stress from the nuclear test.
The South Korean agency confirmed there were two earthquakes Saturday.
According to its website, the first quake -- with a 2.6 magnitude occurred at 12:43 a.m.
A second one took place at 4:29 a.m.
ET around the same area.
Park Jong-shin, an analyst for the agency, agreed the latest earthquakes might be aftershocks.
"It is assumed that the earthquakes occurred because of North Korea's latest nuclear test," Park said.
The US Geological Survey measured a magnitude 3.5 earthquake 22 kilometers (more than 13 miles) east-northeast of Sungjibaegam, North Korea.
The depth at the epicenter was 5 kilometers (3.1 miles).
"We cannot conclusively confirm at this time the nature (natural or human-made) of the event," the USGS said.
But "Rocket Man," North Korea's Kim Jong Un, is, in fact, a despot with a missile program and pledges to develop a usable hydrogen bomb.
So while the stakes are new and different for President Donald Trump, his tactics remain the same.
What name-calling can get him in a standoff with North Korea is much less clear.
The bellicose US President's bravado should surprise absolutely no one; he picked fights throughout the Republican primary, doling out nicknames to his opponents, then seeking out new adversaries when the foe du jour was vanquished.
That's how we got from "Little Marco," his moniker for Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, with whom he faced off in the primary, to "Crooked Hillary," his name for Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Name-calling, to varying degrees, helped Trump embarrass Rubio in the Florida primary, beat down Cruz on the stump and ahead of what was shaping up to be a tight delegate fight, and destroy the blue wall Clinton was banking on in the Rust Belt -- and Trump knows it.
The through-line is clear.
He's shown that, when under pressure, he will revert to the tactics that got him this job in the first place.
Trump has a flair for rhetoric and for barbs.
His threat of "fire and fury" if North Korea didn't cool it with the missile testing conjured dark images of military power.
But it was not effective in deterring Kim from ordering additional launches.
Calling the North Korea leader "Rocket Man" at the UN and threatening to destroy his country if it endangers the US, along with the slapping of new penalties on the already heavily sanctioned nation, was met with a threat from the North Koreans to test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean and a riposte that Trump is a dotard

In each case during the campaign, Trump would use a nickname both on Twitter and at campaign rallies, feeding off his crowds, to build support among the faithful, and to drive home the point that his opponent was flawed -- and that he was the alpha dog.
Since taking office, he's squared off against Democrats and also Republicans in Congress on a variety of issues.
He'll call out senators over a piece of legislation, like the effort to repeal Obamacare.
But he keeps returning to Clinton even though he beat her last November, reveling in the comfort of his unexpected victory.
But Trump is not running against "Rocket Man."
There's no simple win-loss calculation to making Kim his personal enemy.
He's not trying to vanquish him at the ballot box by impugning his integrity, and he's not trying to get pressure on him to support an agenda.
He's simply trying to get Kim to stop testing missiles and seeking a nuclear weapon.
But going on what's happened to date, it's looking more and more like the name-calling has had the opposite effect.
And it could end up being the real difference in Trump's foreign policy, which so far has consisted of removing the US from two large multinational agreements (The Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Paris climate agreement).
He has no interest in being leader of the free world, but rather in the economic nationalism he likes to call "America First."
This is the natural progression of Trump from reality star and New York City provocateur to primary candidate and then Republican iconoclast, to now, presumably, leader of the free world.
But there is no new prize for Trump, the presidential name-caller, in a pitched rhetorical battle with a dictator.
Winning the rhetorical battle is one thing.
But it could be very different than a diplomatic solution to dealing with North Korea.
Eric O'Neill is an attorney, security consultant and public speaker.
Formerly he was with the FBI and helped to capture the spy Robert Hanssen .
He currently runs the Georgetown Group , an investigative and security consultancy in Washington, and is the national security strategist for Carbon Black , a security company in Waltham, Massachusetts.
The views expressed here are solely those of the author.
According to US intelligence sources, the most recent test detonated a 140-kiloton nuclear device , which the North Koreans claim was a hydrogen bomb.
(That's 10 times as powerful as the atomic bomb the United States dropped on Hiroshima in World War II.)
The UN secretary-general has continuously condemned North Korea's ballistic missile launches as serious violations of UN Security Council resolutions.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump has promised new sanctions against North Korea that will allow the United States to target businesses, individuals and financial institutions that aid North Korea's regime, and the Chinese central bank has begun to implement strict UN sanctions against Pyongyang.
The missile tests are posturing by Kim Jong Un and a clear attempt to show dominance to the United States and its allies.
They are likely part of a strategy that follows Iran's playbook: Get close to developing a nuclear weapon and the rest of the world will make a deal.
But they are also a major distraction from a much bigger issue.
The true risk when it comes to North Korea is its cyberattack capabilities.
North Korea has invested heavily in cyberattack operations to disrupt its Western enemies.
Western Intelligence services blamed the 2014 attack against Sony on North Korea's spy agency, the Reconnaissance General Bureau.
North Korea is also believed to be responsible for the cyber heist at Bangladesh's central bank and the global WannaCry ransomware attack from earlier this year.
Pyongyang's cyberspies conduct low-cost, high-impact, deniable attacks around the world to harm enemies, disrupt the West and steal money.
Financial institutions are particularly at risk of theft as North Korea bleeds funds to support its nuclear program.
The goal for North Korea's cyberattack operations, beyond flying under the radar, is to inflict death by a thousand cuts -- a deliberate and organized disrupt-and-attack approach in line with the country's national strategy.
Arguably, the more money and resources North Korea can steal via cyberattacks, the stronger its kinetic military can become.
JUST WATCHED Seismic activity detected in North Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Seismic activity detected in North Korea 01:16

Despite severe unemployment rates and terrible living conditions for its masses, North Korea invests in, and educates, a portion of its population in science and technology to work for its cyber military agency , which is a top-level job in the country.
Security experts and North Korean defectors have placed the numbers in North Korea's cyber army in the thousands.
Students are often handpicked to join the elite corps.
While all citizens must serve for a period of time in the military, those who serve as cyberspies continue to work in a surge capacity when the authoritarian government requires their support.
In that respect, North Korea has at its disposal a dedicated and systematically developed cyber army on call.
North Korea's most frequent target of cyberattacks is its southern neighbor.
As pressure from the West to derail North Korea's nuclear weapons program increases, Kim will likely continue to develop cyberattack capabilities in response.
In turn, the United States should develop contingency plans to respond to a direct cyberattack from North Korea.
Most critically, we should develop an escalation policy that establishes when a cyberattack will be considered an act of war.
Cyberattacks can affect more than just bank accounts or identity theft; they can shut down power transmission, turn off water and prevent aircraft control towers from safely landing planes.
The United States needs to invest heavily in cybersecurity for critical infrastructure, hardening key control elements across the country and doubling down on protections to our financial systems and power grids.
Join us on Twitter and Facebook

In North Korea and elsewhere, the battleground for future conflicts will be found in both kinetic and cyberwar theaters.
As we all continue to pay attention to Kim's nuclear missile posturing, it's important we not lose sight of North Korea's cyberattack initiatives, which have successfully disrupted the West in recent years and will continue to do so in the future if we don't take action.
Story highlights Nine nuclear-capable states exist in the world, experts say

Eight believed to have weapons ready to be incorporated into their arsenals

(CNN) Nine nuclear-capable states exist in the world, but only eight of them -- all but North Korea -- are believed by experts to have weapons mature and developed enough to be readily incorporated into the arsenals of their armed forces.
That is, of course, a rapidly developing situation.
A North Korean official threatened this week that his country would test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean after President Donald Trump called North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "rocket man" and the North Korean shot back that Trump was a "dotard ."
The road to North Korea's weapons capability follows decades of ups and downs as nuclear states such as the United States and Russia have built up and dismantled their programs.
Today, Russia is believed to have the most nuclear weapons, with 4,300.
Not far behind is the United States, with 4,000, according to The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists' Nuclear Notebook .
Of the world's approximately 15,000 nuclear weapons, 9,400 are in military arsenals.
The remaining weapons are retired and awaiting dismantlement.
Nearly 4,000 are operationally available, and 1,800 are ready for use on short notice.
But after large-scale disarmament efforts by superpowers such as the United States, we're really at a low point in what was once a world that packed three or four times more operational nuclear power.
See the chart below for a visualization of how nuclear arsenals have changed over time.
Read More
Story highlights More than 95% of wireless cell towers out of service

Many Caribbean residents are without power, water and other resources

(CNN) Days after Hurricane Maria pounded the island of Puerto Rico, killing at least 10 people, authorities are starting to see firsthand the scope of devastation that left the US territory off the grid.
Without power and communications in much of the island, millions of people, including city leaders and first responders, have been cut off from the world since Maria hit Wednesday.
Authorities flew over the island Saturday, and were stunned by what they saw.
No cellphones, water or power.
Roads completely washed away and others blocked by debris, isolating residents.
"It was devastating to see all that kind of debris in all areas, in all towns of the island," Jenniffer Gonzlez, the island's non-voting representative in Congress told CNN.
"We never expected to have a lot of debris in so many areas.
A lot of roads are closed, older ones are just gone," she added.
Read More
(CNN) Two more earthquakes shook southern Mexico on Saturday, further rattling a country still coming to grips with the devastation from stronger temblors earlier this month.
A 6.1 magnitude earthquake Saturday morning was centered in Oaxaca state near Matias Romero, a town about 275 miles southeast of Mexico City, the US Geological Survey said.
Roughly speaking, the epicenter was between the centers of this month's two more violent earthquakes -- the 7.1 magnitude temblor that hit Tuesday closer to the capital, and the 8.1 magnitude quake that struck September 8 off the southern Pacific coast, near Chiapas state.
People evacuate buildings in Mexico City's Tlatelolco area after a seismic alert sounded Saturday.
A 4.5 magnitude quake hit Oaxaca at 7:06 p.m.
That temblor occurred at a depth of 8.9 kilometers, according to initial readings by USGS.
In Oaxaca, some highways and a bridge that had been damaged during the September 8 earthquake collapsed, Mexico's federal police said.
Mexico City did not appear to have sustained significant damage in the earlier and stronger of Saturday's two quakes, said the country's office of the secretary of public security.
Warning sirens sounded in Mexico City after the morning quake was detected, interrupting rescue operations at some of the dozens of buildings that collapsed from Tuesday's earthquake.
CNN video showed rescuers walking off one vast pile of rubble to more stable ground in case any shaking shifted debris further.
Mexico has had three earthquakes greater than 6.0 magnitude since September 8.
A 6.1 magnitude quake can produce strong shaking and considerable damage to poorly built structures and slight to moderate damage in better-constructed buildings, the USGS says

The earlier major quakes killed hundreds of people and turned buildings into dust and debris in parts of Mexico.
More than 300 people have been reported killed in Tuesday's quake; nearly 100 reportedly died in the September 8 temblor.
Searches continue for survivors

Search and rescue efforts in the Mexico City area could last "for at least two more weeks," Luis Felipe Puente, Mexico's civil protection coordinator, told CNN affiliate Foro TV..
Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Relatives of missing people wait for news in front of a collapsed building in Mexico City on Friday, September 22.
A magnitude 7.1 quake hit central Mexico three days earlier.
Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers search for survivors Thursday, September 21, at a collapsed apartment building in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A religious statue is salvaged from a former convent that was heavily damaged in Tlayacapan, Mexico.
This was the second earthquake to hit Mexico in two weeks.
A magnitude 8.1 quake struck off the country's southern coast on September 8.
Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A wall is damaged at a home in Tlayacapan on Wednesday, September 20.
Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers organize donations in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescuers in Mexico City work to save a child trapped inside the Enrique Rebsamen elementary school on September 20.
Rescue workers said they believed they'd made contact with a girl trapped in the rubble at the school.
But by the next afternoon, navy official Angel Enrique Sarmiento said all the school's children had been accounted for and there was no student in the rubble.
He apologized for the confusion.
Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Men carry beams of wood to offer help in Mexico City's Roma neighborhood on September 20.
Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Families prepare to sleep under tarps outside their quake-damaged building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescuers and firefighters lower a corpse from a house in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers and rescue workers search for people trapped inside the Enrique Rebsamen school on September 20.
Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A volunteer in Mexico City asks for silence as a flattened building is searched for survivors on September 20.
Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Members of the Mexican Army nap September 20 after assisting in search-and-rescue missions in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People look for survivors in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man walks his bike past a partially collapsed building in Jojutla on September 20.
Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers arrange food and other donated supplies at a distribution point in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Children's toys are seen in a damaged building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A survivor is pulled out of rubble in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People sleep on the street next to damaged homes in Jojutla on September 20.
Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Soldiers remove debris from a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico An injured person is carried away after being rescued in Mexico City on Tuesday, September 19.
The earthquake happened on the anniversary of a 1985 quake that killed an estimated 9,500 people in and around Mexico City.
Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers remove rubble from a Mexico City building on September 19.
Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers in Mexico City search for people trapped inside the collapsed Enrique Rebsamen school on September 19.
Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man comforts a student outside a school in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A police officer runs toward the site where a building collapsed in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers and volunteers search a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man is rescued under rubble in Mexico City's Condesa area on September 19.
Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman's crushed body hangs from a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Recovery efforts take place at the collapse of a residential building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico The quake damaged the Jojutla Municipal Palace.
Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A search goes on at the scene of a collapsed building in Mexico City's Del Valle neighborhood on September 19.
Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Emergency workers remove debris as they search for survivors in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People react in Mexico City just after the quake hit.
Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People gather on a Mexico City street after office buildings were evacuated because of the quake.
Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A building is damaged in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman in Mexico City cries as she tries to reach people on her cell phone after the quake.
Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Patients from a Mexico City hospital receive treatment outside after the hospital was evacuated on September 19.
Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman in Mexico City reacts after the quake.
Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People remove debris off a building that collapsed in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A car is crushed by debris in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman receives medical assistance after she was injured in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People stand inside a Mexico City building that collapsed in the quake.
Hide Caption 42 of 42

"Our first phase is rescue and humanitarian aid," Puente said.
"Until we are absolutely certain that there are no more people missing, we will continue our search and rescue mission."
An unaccounted number of people went to shelters around the capital after losing their homes.
Schools closed indefinitely, and millions initially were without power.
A hospitalized survivor spoke to CNN about his ordeal after being trapped in rubble for 17 hours.
Martin Mendez, a locksmith, said he was working in a building when it collapsed.
He said he was overwhelmed by the pain of a broken bone and worried his life-sustaining air would run out.
Three other people, he said, tumbled around or on him.
One woman fell with such force his right leg was broken.
"We had to hold on," he said.
The four calmed each other as the hours passed.
Rescuers would yell, "Is anyone in there alive?"
but they couldn't hear the group's frantic replies.
Diana Pacheco texted her husband, told him where they were.
Still no rescue.
Mendez said they feared the air would run out.
But he kept his faith.
"I always believed I was going to get out alive," he said.
On Wednesday morning, they were pulled out.
(CNN) Germans are voting to choose a government, and a Chancellor, for the next four years.
The election underway in the EU's economic powerhouse could see incumbent Angela Merkel from the Christian Democratic Union win a fourth term in office -- or be ousted by her main rival Martin Schulz of the Social Democratic Party.
Merkel cast her vote in the eastern part of Berlin, the German capital, in the afternoon.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel leaves an election booth as she casts her vote in Berlin on Sunday.
Polling stations are open until 6 p.m. local time (12 p.m.
ET), and the country's two state broadcasters are expected to release an exit poll shortly after voting ends.
"The voter turnout is quite high here," Markus Putzel, an election volunteer at a polling station in a school in Berlin's Mitte district, told CNN.
"It's a bit like the German Bundesliga," he said, referring to the German soccer league.
"You know that Bayern Munich will always be the champion, but it is exciting to see who will come second."
Turnout was robust despite rainy weather and the annual Berlin Marathon, which almost ground this part of the city to a halt in the morning.
Merkel or Schulz?
As the election reaches its final lap, it seems unlikely that one of the parties will win more than 50% of the 598 seats in parliament, meaning the largest party would start coalition talks on Monday.
Whoever wins has a daunting task ahead.
Over the next four years, Germany will play a key role in overseeing -- and negotiating -- Britain's departure from the European Union and in dealing with the global threats of terrorism, climate change and an emboldened North Korea.
The Chancellor will also have to tackle domestic concerns over immigration, education and investment in digital technologies.
Merkel has pledged to reduce Germany's already low unemployment, and is offering modest tax cuts.
She has defended her 2015 "open door" policy that led to more than a million refugees entering the country, but has insisted the events of that year must not be repeated.
"I honor our chancellor and want her to remain in power," Elenor Mass, 88, told CNN.
"I like her honesty, her persistence and her humanity as well as her hard work.
I like her as our head of state."
The Chancellor has largely stayed away from making big election promises and has been accused of "sleepwalking" through the campaign by the German media.
Schulz, a former President of the European Parliament, has been far more combative, promising to raise taxes on the rich, tackle poverty among workers and pensioners in Germany, and invest in infrastructure and education.
Martin Schulz, top candidate and chairman of the Social Democratic Party, casts his vote in the German election in Wuerselen, Germany, on Sunday.
He has also taken a harder line than his rival on the recent actions of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and US President Donald Trump, who he accused of bringing "us to the brink of a crisis" with his "fire and fury" tweet.
"Security, economy and education are the most important issues in this election," said Marion, a middle-aged voter who didn't want to give her last name.
"There is no alternative to the Chancellor.
The landscape of the parties is flat, they are all the same, there are simply no differences.
Everything is a choice between a bit more or a bit less.
I don't like it."
Chancellor candidate Martin Schulz speaks at a demonstration in Hamburg, Germany on August 31.

Who gets a say?
There are 61.5 million eligible voters in Germany and 42 parties contesting the election.
But only six of those parties are likely to win enough votes to send representatives to the Bundestag, Germany's parliament.
Those are Merkel's conservatives (the CDU), the social democrats, the liberals (FDP), the Left party, the Greens and the anti-immigrant far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) -- which was founded in 2013 and looks set to enter parliament for the first time.
A poster from the far-right Alternative for Germany on September 21 in Berlin, Germany, that reads "Burkas?
We prefer bikinis".
The CDU and SPD -- partners in a coalition government since the last election in 2013 -- are likely to emerge as the two largest parties.
But the battle for third place among the smaller parties has been fierce.
A woman wearing a veil casts her ballot at a polling station in Berlin during general elections on September 24.
Around 650,000 volunteers have been deployed at 73,500 polling stations across the country to make sure the process runs smoothly.
Merkel supporters wave placards at a campaign rally in Kappeln, Germany on September 20.
What happens next?
Once the final results have been announced on Monday, coalition talks will begin.
To form a government, the parties involved must have a combined total of at least 50% of the seats in parliament.
There are likely to be several coalition options, and plenty of disagreement between the parties before they reach a deal.
Parliament will reconvene on October 24 with the new government in place.
Story highlights Three people taken to hospitals, ambulance service says

"This incident is not being treated as terror-related," police say

(CNN) A number of people were injured after a group of males sprayed them with what appears to be "a noxious substance" near Stratford Shopping Centre in East London, London Metropolitan Police said Saturday night.
It's believed six people were hurt in the incident, police said in a statement, later adding that the injuries were "not life threatening or life changing."
London Ambulance Service said six people were treated in all, with three taken to hospitals.
"This incident is not being treated as terror-related," the police statement said.
One male was arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm, police said.
"We have sent a number of resources to the scene including paramedics in cars, ambulance crews, an incident response officer and our Hazardous Area Response Team," the ambulance service said in a statement.
Read More
Story highlights Itir Esen loses Miss Turkey crown after tweet on last year's failed coup

"I had no political agenda when I posted," she says on Instagram

(CNN) The winner of Miss Turkey 2017 has denied making political comments after being stripped of her crown because of a tweet she sent in July.
Itir Esen, 18, was crowned Thursday, but a few hours later she lost the title after it emerged she had tweeted about last year's failed coup in Turkey.
In the tweet, she said her period had begun, "representing the martyrs blood."
The tweet has since been deleted, but there are screen grabs available.
"To celebrate July 15 Martyr's Day, I began the morning by getting my period.
I am celebrating the day by bleeding representing the martyrs blood," the tweet read.
Esen tweeted on the anniversary of last year's coup attempt in which around 250 people died.
Read More
Garvan Walshe is a former policy adviser to the British Conservative Party.
He is also the CEO of Brexit Analytics .
The opinions in this article belong to the author.
(CNN) Against a plain background in a former school for paramilitary police, next to a church famous for denouncing Galileo's refutation of the idea that the sun moved around the Earth, British Prime Minister Theresa May gave a foreign policy speech Friday that revolved around divisions within her own Cabinet.
Facing demands to side with the pragmatists -- who favor what is often referred to as a soft Brexit -- or the ideologues in her Cabinet, she opted to split the difference.
The result: a significant difference in the tone of the UK's public statements about Brexit to date, but very little in substance.
On the three issues upon which the European Union wants to see "sufficient progress" before moving discussions to the future relationship -- EU citizens' rights, the EU budget and the Irish border -- there was progress only on the budget.
Rumors that had spread in advance of May's speech about the death of a so-called hard Brexit proved greatly exaggerated.
Despite her loss of authority in an election of her own choosing , and increased pressure from business and her own finance minister, May repeated her position that Britain was to leave the single market and the customs union

Management of her own country's politics demanded nothing less: The questions asked by the British after the speech focused on whether she had sold "leave" voters down the river, not whether she would wreck the economy by leaving the single market and customs union by 2021.
JUST WATCHED Brexit: UK and EU concerned over slow progress Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Brexit: UK and EU concerned over slow progress 02:37

What was missing was serious attention to the demands made by the EU.
With the exception of the budget -- May made what should have been the obvious admission that the UK would pay what it had previously agreed to pay -- her speech, which was supposed to provide the opportunity for a breakthrough moment in the tortuous Brexit negotiations, shows how little progress has been made since March.
If her position on the Irish border remains contradictory (she wants to leave the EU customs union, but have no physical infrastructure on the border) her position on the rights of EU citizens currently living in the UK post-Brexit is inadequate..

She proposed that after the end of any agreed transition period, these rights -- currently ensured by the European Court of Justice -- be written into British law.
This is only progress compared with the UK's previous dreams of being able to alter them by administrative order at a later date.
Her promises that British courts would protect EU citizens' rights will ring hollow after EU citizens were sent deportation letters "in error" and a week after the Home Office stands accused of ignoring injunctions against the deportation of an asylum seeker from Afghanistan.
The EU will continue to insist on the direct application of EU law in this area, which is something that "leave" supporters will find hard to stomach.
But it is on the rather abstract question of what the EU calls "the integrity of the single market" that her proposals were so ill-conceived as to appear designed to sabotage, rather than advance the negotiations.
The EU's main institutional advantage is its internal market, which is based on the principle that all members have the same benefits and obligations, and those benefits are not available to countries not willing to abide by the obligations.
After claiming she understood the impossibility of having her cake, May then proceeded to propose eating it.
To seek an economic arrangement being as much like the single market and customs union as possible -- but without the common rules governing them -- will appear to the EU and its members at best as self-contradictory, and at worst as cynical cherry-picking.
An unkind observer -- and there are a lot of unkind observers of Britain across the EU at the moment -- would conclude that the British want everything about the EU, except European people.
This is not a constructive basis for negotiations, but it is also the most conciliatory position May can get past her own party.
Faced with a choice of an economic cliff, or a leadership challenge, she is taking the country toward the cliff.
Peggy Drexler is the author of "Our Fathers, Ourselves: Daughters, Fathers, and the Changing American Family" and "Raising Boys Without Men."
The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers.
(CNN) So the Trump administration says that Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price needs a private jet, as he is very busy.
Aren't we all?
After Politico reported earlier this week that Price had taken five private flights in a single week -- one of which was a half-hour trip from D.C. to Philly -- a spokeswoman for the HHS defended the travel, saying it was intended "to get him outside of Washington, D.C., [and] talk to real people on the ground."
You know what they say: There's no better way to be a man of the people than by flying private.
Although some government positions require private air travel -- including the offices of President, vice president, attorney general and FBI director -- it's unusual for Cabinet members to charter private flights, due to the cost.
JUST WATCHED Mnuchin faces scrutiny over latest report Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Mnuchin faces scrutiny over latest report 02:29

On the one hand, fast and loose use of government funds is nothing new in the world of Washington.
Who could forget the controversy (with pictures!)
over the General Services Administration official who enjoyed wine while soaking in the tub in a lavish hotel room during a scouting trip, one of eight it turned out, to source a venue for a conference?
Or the one about the Secret Service agents partying with strippers in El Salvador?
But for the Trump administration, it appears par for the course -- not just an occasional exception.
After all, Price, os the only HHS secretary to have "flown private" with regularity ("at least 24 flights on private charter planes at taxpayers' expense since early May," says Politico/)

JUST WATCHED Ethics questions swirl around Mnuchin's trip Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ethics questions swirl around Mnuchin's trip 03:45

He is not alone: Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and his wife, Louise Linton, u sed an Air Force jet to visit Kentucky in August for a work trip that (coincidentally) would allow them to catch the solar eclipse while aloft, and Linton to boast on Instagram about the Valentino shoes she wore as she deplaned.
The Treasury Department later said that the couple would be reimbursing the government for travel costs when Linton travels with Mnuchin on official business.
And on Thursday, Buzzfeed reported that other Trump administration agency heads -- including Small Business Administration head Linda McMahon -- regularly use private jets for government business.
JUST WATCHED Senate confirms Pruitt as head of EPA Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Senate confirms Pruitt as head of EPA 04:01

This use of taxpayer dollars is egregious, all right, but should we be surprised?
After all, these people take their cues from the top.
Outrageous, privileged behavior like this has surrounded the President since before he was even elected, for example when he refused to release his tax returns and publicly invited the Russians to hack Hillary Clinton's emails.
Since becoming President, Donald Trump has continued to misuse power, funds and the media in all sorts of ways, from hiring members of his family to making frequent, wasteful trips to his various properties, to using the presidency to promote those properties -- all while on American' payroll and all while promising to cut wasteful spending.
It's a presidency mired in non-convention at best, extreme ethical breaches at worst.
The irony, of course, is that all these offenses combined in one compromised presidency serve to make the individual offenses less noticeable.
We've now come to expect egregiousness from the Trump administration.
His Cabinet flies private?
Of course they do!
That Trump and his Cabinet feel entitled to the advantages they take is not surprising, given their backgrounds and wealth.
Mnuchin is a former hedge fund manager thought to be worth many millions.
They may believe they have "earned" the right to spend government money because of their high income and the taxes they pay on it -- and, well, they certainly flew private back when they were just "regular people."
JUST WATCHED Trump's travel straining Secret Service budget Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's travel straining Secret Service budget 02:40

As Linton, who is a Scottish actress, snidely asked a critic of that Kentucky trip in an Instagram post that went viral, "Have you given more to the economy than me or my husband?
Either as an individual earner in taxes or in self-sacrifice to your country?"
( Her critic works full time as a health care products manager.)
Trump, meanwhile, is their model.
He has not been bothered by reports of how much it's costing to cover his trips to Florida, or to cover protection of his large family, including the significant cost of the Trump Tower residence in New York City for the first lady.
And the public has not reacted with the sort of outrage that such expenditures might warrant.
But can you blame them?
What with all the major natural disasters, threat of nuclear war, Russia investigations?
As luck has it for Trump and Co., there's so much else going on in this mess of an administration that it's not at all surprising that the overspending of a flashy businessman who works for the American people gets less attention than it should.
It's not appropriate behavior for one in government service, of course.
But does anyone really believe Trump, and his cohorts, are in service to anyone but themselves?
Andre Spicer is a professor of organizational behavior at Cass Business School, City University London.
He is the co-author, with Carl Cederstrom, of "The Wellness Syndrome."
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of the author.
(CNN) On Thursday, Mark Zuckerberg popped up on Facebook Live.
Just back from parental leave, he had lines under his eyes.
He may not have been getting any sleep, but there were no signs of baby spit-up on his T-shirt, which perfectly matched the large couch in the background.
Zuck was there to share the big news that Facebook had handed over to Congress 3,000 ads associated with the 2016 presidential campaign that were linked to Russia.
In the video, he claims this move came out of a deep concern for "election integrity."
But the prolonged controversy over alleged Russian interference in the US presidential elections, and more recent focus on Facebook's possible role in enabling it, has clearly had an impact.
As Zuck said , "It is a new challenge for internet communities to have to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, but if that's what we must do then we are committed to rising to the occasion."
Facebook's sudden willingness to hand over advertisements to Congress is part of slow change in how the tech giant relates to the government.
In the past, it has dealt with government requests and pressure from regulators by appealing to Internet freedom.
When that approach wore thin, it tried to baffle regulators and politicians with technical arguments.
For instance, following allegations its newsfeed was biased, Zuck sought to explain the technical details of how it worked to Congress -- undoubtedly confusing some.
Then, it followed the playbook of other big corporations and used backroom lobbying and piecemeal bargaining to get its way on research and development tax credits for instance.
Now Facebook is trying to deal with government pressure with appeals to "transparency."
"I wish I could tell you we're going to stop all [campaign] interference," he said Thursday, "but that just wouldn't be realistic."
Zuck then went on to outline "nine things we're going to be working on over the next few months" that would ensure electoral integrity.
Facebook has also taken the step of voluntarily complying with the Federal Communications Commission requirements for political advertising on other forms of media, like television and radio.
They require that the political campaign simply must reveal who paid for the ad.
The FCC sets a pretty low bar compared with other countries, which often strictly limit the amount that political campaigns can spend and when they can air their ads.
Facebook's added transparency may reveal which front-group funded a campaign ad, but it is unlikely to make for informed voters.
After all, many studies in political psychology show that ideologically committed voters are willing to bend almost any factual information to fit their preconceived values.
These measures may hold off for a little longer the threat of real regulatory scrutiny brewing among politicians for the social media giant and for other such tech companies, but it will do nothing to deal with the real blight in the US political system -- which is out-of-control campaign financing.
We must remember that $6.8 billion was spent on the 2016 US presidential election.
That's more than double what the nation spends on national parks each year.
Spending on elections is growing rapidly, making political campaigning a lucrative market for Facebook.
Some American citizens are outraged by a relatively small sum ( about $100,000 ) being allegedly spent by Russian operatives buying Facebook ads.
Yet, they seem to be relatively relaxed about the nearly $900 million that the Koch brothers spent during the 2016 election cycle, as just one example.
Millions of dollars of other foreign money flowed into the US election from other sources as well.
For instance, the British arms company BAE systems spent $415,000 on Congressional candidates and the French pharmaceutical company Sanofi spent just over $400,000.
For sure, the corrosion of election integrity from foreign influence (via Facebook or other companies on the internet) is something to be guarded against.
But the US also needs to guard against corrosion of election integrity from within its own political system as well.
For social media behemoths like Facebook to address the issue of election integrity, providing a touch of transparency is only the start.
The next step for social media companies like Facebook would be to think about ways of breaking down people's ideological biases, which make them impervious to almost any actual information about elections (such as who paid for advertisements).
Join us on Twitter and Facebook

But the most radical, and the most desperately needed step is to begin grappling with the much tougher issue of big money in elections.
The US government has shown it is completely unwilling to tackle the widely-acknowledged problem of campaign financing.
Sadly, it is also unlikely that social media companies will start asking questions about the estimated $1 billion spent on political advertising on their platforms during the 2016 campaign.
The Trump presidency is a test.
Institutions like the courts, the news media and the business community have all been tested.
Now it's the NFL and the NBA's turn.
The president is embracing an "us versus them" conflict involving politics, patriotism and popular American pastimes.
And there is an unmistakable racial element at play, since he is targeting prominent black players.
On Friday night, seemingly out of nowhere, President Trump criticized the National Football League broadly and athletes who kneel during the national anthem specifically.
Analysts are now predicting further on-the-field protests at games.
Trump waded into controversy with another league on Saturday morning.
On Twitter he criticized Golden State Warriors star Steph Curry, who intends to skip the traditional NBA champs celebration at the White House.
"Stephen Curry is hesitating,therefore invitation is withdrawn!"
Trump wrote twenty minutes after "Fox & Friends" mentioned the issue.
NBA great LeBron James responded by calling the president a "bum" who misled his followers.
U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite.
Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!
LeBron James (@KingJames) September 23, 2017

"U bum @StephenCurry30 already said he ain't going!
So therefore ain't no invite," James tweeted.
"Going to White House was a great honor until you showed up!"
Trump's remarks renewed the accusation made by ESPN anchor Jemele Hill a week ago -- that Trump "is a white supremacist."
CNN's Jake Tapper wryly tweeted on Saturday that Trump is "focusing like a laser on the major problems of the American people: black professional athletes with opinions."
The anthem protests, which began when Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last fall, seemed to come up randomly while Trump was rallying an Alabama crowd to support Luther Strange in a primary election.
Trump said NFL owners should get rid of players like that.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired.
He's fired,'" Trump said.
"You know, some owner is going to do that.
He's going to say, 'That guy that disrespects our flag, he's fired.'
And that owner, they don't know it [but] they'll be the most popular person in this country."
The president followed up on Twitter Saturday afternoon.
"If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect.
... our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
Opponents of Trump accused him of failing to respect the First Amendment rights of Americans.
Trump also said NFL ratings are down "massively" (that's not true -- the ratings are only down modestly) and criticized the NFL's efforts to make the game safer for athletes.
"There's a more important issue about the health of young, American athletes.
And obviously the president wasn't too concerned about that," CNN sports analyst Christine Brennan said after the rally.
The president finished his NFL critique by saying it hurts the game "when people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they're playing our great national anthem."
In response, Mike Allen of Axios wrote Saturday morning, "To address a largely white crowd as 'people like yourselves,' and refer to protesting athletes, often African American, as 'those people,' does nothing to heal the wounds of Charlottesville."
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell issued an unusual statement about the president's remarks, criticizing the "divisive" comments without calling out Trump by name.
The NFL players union spoke out more forcefully.
And Seattle Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, an active Twitter user, responded Saturday morning: "The behavior of the President is unacceptable and needs to be addressed.
If you do not Condemn this divisive Rhetoric you are Condoning it!!"
As if Uber's new CEO didn't already have his work cut out for him, now he has to deal with losing one of the company's biggest markets.
On Friday, London's transport authority said Uber is not "fit and proper" to operate in the city.
The city opted not to renew the company's license -- a decision partly based on some of the damning revelations that surfaced about Uber this year.
Among those revelations: The company used controversial "Greyball" software to prevent regulators and law enforcement from monitoring the app.
Uber said it was never used or considered to be used in the U.K.
Still, London no longer wants to offer the ride-sharing service a license.
Uber said 3.5 million people have used its platform since starting in London in 2012.
It said 40,000 licensed drivers will be affected.
The company has 21 days to appeal the decision.
Uber will turn, in part, to its users to advocate for the brand.
So far, a Change.org petition to keep Uber running in London has earned over 740,000 signatures since Friday.
"It's a significant decision -- not just because London is a big taxi market but also because it might set a precedent for other cities that are of two minds about Uber," according to Kartik Hosanagar, professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
Arun Sundararajan, a professor at New York University's Stern School of Business, agreed.
"It's important that this not start some sort of domino effect across the rest of Europe," said Sundararajan.
"It wouldn't surprise me if more cities start to push back heavily because they're trying to preserve their power."
It could also be time for Uber's opponents to advance their own interests in the region.
One thing is for sure: Uber's CEO Dara Khosrowshahi has his fair share of fires to defuse.
Khosrowshahi, formerly head of Expedia, took over the embattled $68 billion company at the end of August.
In addition to now dealing with a crisis in London, Khosrowshahi must manage Uber's escalating court battle with Google's Waymo over allegedly stolen self-driving car technology.
He also faces a Department of Justice investigation into the "Greyball" software.
Not to mention, the company still has a lot of work to do to repair its internal work culture.
"It will be a testament to [Khosrowshahi's] leadership skills, if he can make this problem go away and strike a deal with the London government," added Sundararajan.
"It could be a pivotal moment for Uber."
Related: London says it won't renew Uber's license

In response to the London decision, Uber said it would "immediately challenge this [decision] in the courts."
"Transport for London and the mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice," the company said.
Khosrowshahi weighed in later on Friday, tweeting that Uber is "far from perfect," but he asked that officials work with the company to "make things right."
Dear London: we r far from perfect but we have 40k licensed drivers and 3.5mm Londoners depending on us.
Pls work w/us to make things right  dara khosrowshahi (@dkhos) September 22, 2017

Khosrowshahi expanded on his thoughts in an internal email sent to employees on Friday, which was obtained by CNN Tech.
"The truth is that there is a high cost to a bad reputation," Khosrowshahi wrote.
"Irrespective of whether we did everything that is being said about us in London today (and to be clear, I don't think we did), it really matters what people think of us, especially in a global business like ours, where actions in one part of the world can have serious consequences in another."
Related: Londoners react to 'bombshell' Uber ban

London's decision doesn't bode well for Uber, whose rivals abroad are raising billions in funding and working together to dominate their respective markets.
In July, Uber was forced to pull out of operations in Macau, located off the south coast of China.
Meanwhile, Uber merged with its rival in Russia, Yandex, that same month.
A year ago, Uber sold its business in China to rival Didi Chuxing.
During the appeal of the London decision, Hosanagar believes Uber will likely point to innovations it has rolled out in the past two years to increase safety and security, such as the ability for a rider to share their ride details in real time with a friend.
On the other hand, Hosanagar said, Uber will likely have to defend how it screens and manages its huge fleet of drivers, among other things.
"I suspect the move by London will prompt Uber to take these issues a little more seriously," he said.
Uber, which operates in nearly 700 cities, was last valued at $68 billion.
SoftBank, a Japanese tech giant, is considering an investment in the company.
Experts anticipate Uber's valuation could take a hit from the decision by London officials.
"All indications are that [the recent crises] are putting downward pressure on Uber's ability to sustain or grow their valuation," Sundararajan said.
Travel photographer Austin Mann was taking a wide shot on his new iPhone 8 Plus last week when he noticed a young boy peeking his head out of a train window.
He changed the device's feature to Portrait Mode and captured the image before the train sped off.
Mann, who is from Wichita, Kansas, is on an assignment in India, visiting Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pushkar and other cities.
Apple lent Mann, 32, an iPhone 8 Plus to use and send back early photos taken with the new phone.
The iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus go on sale in stores on Friday.
The iPhone 8 Plus, and its smaller sibling the iPhone 8, were announced last week.
The iPhone X, Apple's new $999 phone, won't be available for purchase until later this fall.
According to Apple, Mann's photos are the first published shots taken on the iPhone 8 Plus.
Apple says the 8 Plus has its best camera yet.
Its new features include Portrait Lighting mode, which mimics professional lighting effects.
Overall, photos display brighter colors and finer details.
Related: Order an iPhone 8 today or wait for the X?
Mann's photos have appeared in outlets like National Geographic and Engadget.
He's also worked with NGOs and nonprofits on various projects around the world.
For example, he created a short film for the Fiji Kinde Project, an organization that builds kindergarten programs on Fiji's remote islands.
After the iPhone 5 came out in 2012, Mann went to Iceland to try out the iPhone's camera.
He wrote about the experience online for his website.
When the iPhone 5S came out a year later, he traveled to Patagonia.
"[2013] was the first time I went on a project to a major international destination where I didn't take a ... professional camera of any kind," Mann said.
"I just took the iPhone."
Related: Apple's iPhone X: Face ID, no home button, $999

Today, Mann shoots a lot of his work with an iPhone.
He said he plays to the smartphone's strengths.
For example, mobile devices make it easy to capture spontaneous moments because they're always with you and easy to pull out.
When he arrived in India, a taxi driver was surprised he had so few bags as a professional photographer.
"He asked 'Where are your bags?'"
Mann said.
"When I said 'This is all I have,' he was [shocked]."
But people are less surprised nowadays when he pulls out a smartphone to snap photos.
"The surprise is going away," said Mann, adding that his subjects often take photos with their own phone.
"People sometimes want to take a selfie with me [after I take their portrait]."
Growing up in poverty, he was raised by his mother, who was in an abusive relationship.
"I ... had to grow up fast in an environment with drugs and alcohol, physical abuse," Valencia said.
"Not having stability took me down."
At 9, he started drinking.
At 14, he smoked meth, then shot heroin at 15.
Throughout his teens, he ran away, sold drugs and spent time in jail.
When he ultimately found himself sleeping in a park, with nowhere left to turn, it was a wake-up call.
In 1999, Valencia went to rehab and later entered a court-appointed treatment program.
He has been sober ever since.
Along the way, he began working on restoring classic cars, eventually opening his own small body shop in Lancaster, California.
A few years ago, neighborhood children started hanging around his garage.
As they expressed interest in the work, it gave Valencia an idea.
Today, his nonprofit, Lost Angels Children's Project, provides an afterschool program -- with a focus on classic car restoration -- for low-income, foster and at-risk youth.
"Our whole goal is to offer somewhere positive and safe where they can come and learn and be a part of something different," Valencia said.
Three times a week, about 15 children come to classes, where they learn how to build a car.
"Kids come in not knowing anything about cars.
We start from zero with teaching them how to read a tape measure, do fractions, nuts and bolts, just basic safety and tools," Valencia said.
"Then we take those skills to an actual classic car."
Every year, Valencia and his students restore a custom car and raffle the finished product at a car show.
The money they raise goes back into the program.
Since he formalized the project in 2015, Valencia has worked with about 100 young people.
The result has been a win-win, he said.
Children are learning in a positive and nurturing environment, and he's able to give them something he never had: stability.
"These kids are still kids.
They're still concerned about video games and their school.
And I love that," he said.
"It makes me happy because they're still being kids."
CNN's Allie Torgan spoke with Valencia about his work.
Below is an edited version of their conversation.
CNN: How did you discover your own passion for custom cars?
Aaron Valencia: Early in my sobriety, I met this guy who had a crazy 1954 Chevy lowrider out in Hollywood.
I mean, done to the nines.
We drove around Hollywood that night, and from that moment on, that's what I wanted to do.
I dove in head first, and it set me and my life in a whole different direction.
I didn't grow up in a mechanic household.
I didn't know how to change a sparkplug, but I started just absorbing any information I could from everywhere I could.
It just evolved.
And before long, I opened up a small shop.
CNN: What was the inspiration for this project?
Valencia: I run a shop in an industrial complex with a lot of other mechanics.
And we're always doing crazy lowriders.
There is music, and cars, and just a lot of stuff going on.
So, kids were kind of gravitating towards the shop to see what was going on.
Kids wanted to help, wanted to do something instead of just standing around.
So, we put them to work, and we started seeing how kids were excelling from it.
They needed a place to go, needed a place to be a part of something positive.
So, it was like, "Let's open up the shop and be able to teach them.
Have them come here and they can actually learn a trade, learn a lesson, learn something to better their life."
JUST WATCHED CNN Hero Aaron Valencia: The kids inspired him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Hero Aaron Valencia: The kids inspired him 02:23

CNN: Ultimately, your program is about more than helping kids build a car.
Valencia: A lot of these kids have been through trauma, issues; and coping skills is something that no one really teaches you.
We have little round table discussions, just talking about normal topics of peer pressure, life experiences.
Not only do we work on classic cars, but we also get them into the boxing gym, and they start working out.
It's just another avenue for some of the kids who have anger management issues, have self-discipline issues.
And all the same skills that it takes to build a car and fabricate a custom car -- we do smaller art projects as well.
Recently, the kids put on their first art show at a big gallery here in Lancaster, and it was a huge success.
It's a lot more than just teaching kids how to be mechanics.
We are trying to get them to open their eyes to see a different way.
Want to get involved?
Check out the Lost Angels Children's Project website and see how to help.
To donate to Lost Angels Children's Project click the CrowdRise widget below.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
One family shares how they found a positive outlet and new look on life at CNN Hero Aaron Valencia's custom car garage in Lancaster, CA.
With all of the restaurants scattered in San Diego, such as food stands, pizza and Korean, the only difficulty you'll have will be deciding where to go to eat!
This vicinity has an ample selection of nightlife venues so you're unlikely to find yourself sitting around with nothing to do of an evening.
If the arts are your thing, San Diego is stacked with things to do and see like performing arts spots, museums and music halls.
If you're the type who loves to stay active, this city is the place for you - keep in shape with activities such as playing at the park, paddleboarding and boating.
If you're an avid shopper who loves stores like art galleries, luggage stores and watch shops, then San Diego is for you; there are so many amazing stores within walking distance that you will be doing a lot of shopping.
(CNN) Two more earthquakes shook southern Mexico over the weekend as the country is trying to recover from a magnitude 7.1 quake last week that killed more than 320 people.
The temblors Saturday registered magnitudes of 6.1 and 4.5.
Earlier this month, a magnitude 8.1 earthquake was centered in the Pacific Ocean off Mexico's southern coast, killing more than 90 people.
The September 8 quake was the strongest the country had experienced in a century.
The next day, Hurricane Katia made landfall in the state of Veracruz and caused a deadly mudslide

Search efforts could last for at least two more weeks.
Schools are closed indefinitely, and millions initially were without power

Organizations are providing medical relief, serving hot meals and building temporary shelters for those affected in the wake of these natural disasters.
You can have an impact on the lives of those in need by clicking the button below to help.
Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Relatives of missing people wait for news in front of a collapsed building in Mexico City on Friday, September 22.
A magnitude 7.1 quake hit central Mexico three days earlier.
Hide Caption 1 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers search for survivors Thursday, September 21, at a collapsed apartment building in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 2 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A religious statue is salvaged from a former convent that was heavily damaged in Tlayacapan, Mexico.
This was the second earthquake to hit Mexico in two weeks.
A magnitude 8.1 quake struck off the country's southern coast on September 8.
Hide Caption 3 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A wall is damaged at a home in Tlayacapan on Wednesday, September 20.
Hide Caption 4 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers organize donations in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 5 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescuers in Mexico City work to save a child trapped inside the Enrique Rebsamen elementary school on September 20.
Rescue workers said they believed they'd made contact with a girl trapped in the rubble at the school.
But by the next afternoon, navy official Angel Enrique Sarmiento said all the school's children had been accounted for and there was no student in the rubble.
He apologized for the confusion.
Hide Caption 6 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Men carry beams of wood to offer help in Mexico City's Roma neighborhood on September 20.
Hide Caption 7 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Families prepare to sleep under tarps outside their quake-damaged building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 8 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescuers and firefighters lower a corpse from a house in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 9 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers and rescue workers search for people trapped inside the Enrique Rebsamen school on September 20.
Hide Caption 10 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A volunteer in Mexico City asks for silence as a flattened building is searched for survivors on September 20.
Hide Caption 11 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Members of the Mexican Army nap September 20 after assisting in search-and-rescue missions in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 12 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People look for survivors in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 13 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man walks his bike past a partially collapsed building in Jojutla on September 20.
Hide Caption 14 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Volunteers arrange food and other donated supplies at a distribution point in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 15 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Children's toys are seen in a damaged building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 16 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A survivor is pulled out of rubble in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 17 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People sleep on the street next to damaged homes in Jojutla on September 20.
Hide Caption 18 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Soldiers remove debris from a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 20.
Hide Caption 19 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico An injured person is carried away after being rescued in Mexico City on Tuesday, September 19.
The earthquake happened on the anniversary of a 1985 quake that killed an estimated 9,500 people in and around Mexico City.
Hide Caption 20 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers remove rubble from a Mexico City building on September 19.
Hide Caption 21 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers in Mexico City search for people trapped inside the collapsed Enrique Rebsamen school on September 19.
Hide Caption 22 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man comforts a student outside a school in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 23 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A police officer runs toward the site where a building collapsed in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 24 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Rescue workers and volunteers search a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 25 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A man is rescued under rubble in Mexico City's Condesa area on September 19.
Hide Caption 26 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Hide Caption 27 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman's crushed body hangs from a collapsed building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 28 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Recovery efforts take place at the collapse of a residential building in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 29 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico The quake damaged the Jojutla Municipal Palace.
Hide Caption 30 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A search goes on at the scene of a collapsed building in Mexico City's Del Valle neighborhood on September 19.
Hide Caption 31 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Emergency workers remove debris as they search for survivors in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 32 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People react in Mexico City just after the quake hit.
Hide Caption 33 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People gather on a Mexico City street after office buildings were evacuated because of the quake.
Hide Caption 34 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A building is damaged in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 35 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman in Mexico City cries as she tries to reach people on her cell phone after the quake.
Hide Caption 36 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico Patients from a Mexico City hospital receive treatment outside after the hospital was evacuated on September 19.
Hide Caption 37 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman in Mexico City reacts after the quake.
Hide Caption 38 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People remove debris off a building that collapsed in Mexico City.
Hide Caption 39 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A car is crushed by debris in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 40 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico A woman receives medical assistance after she was injured in Mexico City on September 19.
Hide Caption 41 of 42 Photos: Deadly earthquake rocks central Mexico People stand inside a Mexico City building that collapsed in the quake.
Hide Caption 42 of 42
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Only a handful of the countries who are part of the coalition against ISIS are participating in the air war.
Source: CNN
With only two sets of wheels as landing gear, the U2 is one of the most difficult planes to land.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
In service since 1957, the U2 is one of the main reconnaissance planes in the US military arsenal.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
International passengers arrive at Washington Dulles International Airport after clearing immigration and customs in Dulles, Virginia, U.S. September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/James Lawler Duggan

NEW YORK (Reuters) - President Donald Trumps announcement on Sunday restricting travelers from an expanded list of countries has already been roundly criticized by immigrant and civil rights groups as no more lawful than his previous travel ban, but it could stand a better chance of holding up in court, legal experts said.
The new presidential proclamation, which Trump said is needed to screen out terrorist or public safety threats, indefinitely restricts travel from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea.
Certain government officials from Venezuela will also be barred.
Trumps Mar.
6 temporary travel ban, which replaced another ban from January and expired on Sunday, targeted six Muslim-majority countries.
It sparked international outrage and was quickly blocked by federal courts as unconstitutional discrimination or a violation of immigration law.
In June, the U.S. Supreme Court allowed a limited version of the ban to go ahead while the justices examine its legality.
The proclamation, set to go into effect on Oct. 18, could be less vulnerable to legal attack, scholars and other experts said, because it is the result of a months-long analysis of foreign vetting procedures by U.S. officials.
It also might be less easily tied to Trumps campaign-trail statements some courts viewed as biased against Muslims.
The greater the sense that the policy reflects a considered, expert judgment, the less the temptation (by courts) to second-guess the executive, said Saikrishna Prakash, a professor at the University of Virginia School of Law, in an email.
It looks less like a matter of prejudice or a desire to fulfill a campaign promise.
The government has said the president has broad authority in immigration and national security matters, but challengers to the Mar.
6 ban had argued that it ran afoul of the U.S. Constitutions bar on favoring one religion over another.
They cited statements Trump made during his 2016 campaign for president, including his call for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.
Within hours of Sundays proclamation, representatives for the Hawaii, New York and California attorneys general said their offices were reviewing the new restrictions.
Advocacy organizations denounced it as more of the same.
Family members wait for loved ones to clear immigration and customs at Dulles International Airport in Dulles, Virginia, U.S. September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/James Lawler Duggan

This is still a Muslim ban - they simply added three additional countries, said Becca Heller, director of the International Refugee Assistance Project, which previously sued to block Trumps travel ban executive orders.
Of those countries, Chad is majority Muslim, travel from North Korea is already basically frozen and the restrictions on Venezuela only affect government officials on certain visas, Heller said.
But the worldwide review, and the new restrictions tailored by country, could weaken such arguments in court.
Slideshow (2 Images)

While the previous ban targeted Muslim-majority nations Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia and Sudan, the restrictions announced on Sunday include North Korea and Venezuela and omits Sudan altogether.
It also allows some travelers from Somalia and Iran to enter the U.S.
The review also examined each countrys ability to issue reliable electronic passports and share security risk data with the U.S.
Overall, 47 countries had problems, and 40 made improvements, including 11 that agreed to share information on known or suspected terrorists, Trumps proclamation said.
The review at least arguably attenuates the link between the presidents alleged bias and the policy, said Margo Schlanger, a University of Michigan Law School professor.
OPENINGS FOR CHALLENGERS

The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments over the original travel ban on Oct. 10, including whether it discriminated against Muslims.
Sundays proclamation could lead the high court to skip deciding the case altogether.
While new claims of religious discrimination might be harder to press, experts said challengers could potentially argue that the expanded ban violates the federal Immigration and Nationality Act, which forbids the government from discriminating based on an individuals nationality when issuing visas.
Congress decided that it didnt want an immigration system that played favorites among countries, Schlanger said.
Jeffrey Gorsky, the former chief of the legal advisory division at the U.S. State Departments Visa Office, said the new ban could be viewed as overly broad in whom it applies to, keeping out all manner of people from those countries with no evidence of adverse affect on U.S. interests.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germanys Angela Merkel began the tough task of trying to build a government on Monday after securing a fourth term as chancellor, urging the center-left Social Democrats not the shut the door on a re-run of their grand coalition.
Damaged by her decision two years ago to allow more than one million migrants into Germany, Merkels conservative bloc secured 33 percent of the vote, losing 8.5 points -- its lowest level since 1949.
Her coalition partners, the center-left Social Democrats, also slumped and said they would go into opposition.
Voters flocked to the anti-immigration Alternative for Germany (AfD), the first far-right party to enter the German parliament in more than half a century.
However, the AfD hardly had time to savor its third-place showing before it fell into internal bickering.
Many Germans see the rise of the AfD as a similar rejection of the status quo as votes for Brexit and Donald Trump last year.
But Germanys political center held up better than in Britain and the United States as more voters have benefited from globalization and most shun the countrys extremist past.
Merkels party remained the biggest parliamentary bloc and Europes most powerful leader sought to keep her coalition options open on Monday, saying she would start talks with the Free Democrats (FDP) and the Greens as well as the SPD.
SPD leader Martin Schulz said earlier his party had no choice but to go into opposition to defend democracy against those who question it and attack it, after dropping to a post-war low of 20.5 percent.
I heard the SPDs words, nevertheless we should remain in contact, Merkel told a news conference.
I think all parties have a responsibility to ensure that there will be a stable government.
Merkel made clear she still intended to serve a full four years as chancellor.
But her next coalition could be her toughest yet with her only remaining potential partners, the business-friendly FDP and the pro-regulation Greens, at odds on issues from migrants to tax, the environment and Europe.
The FDPs leader Christian Lindner set the stage for tricky talks, saying his party would not agree to a coalition with the conservatives and the Greens, dubbed Jamaica because the parties colors mirror the countrys flag, at any price.
He said changes were needed in Germanys energy policy and its stance on euro zone fiscal policy.
But he struck a more conciliatory tone on Europe, saying Germany had an interest in a strong France.
[B4N1JX00B]

The Greens set out climate change, Europe and social justice as their priorities in any coalition talks.
The emergence of the Greens as powerbrokers in any coalition weighed on markets.
Shares in carmaker BMW (BMWG.DE) were down 0.2 percent, while those in automotive supplier Continental (CONG.DE) dropped 0.4 percent.
RWE (RWEG.DE) -- which operates 15.25 gigawatts (GW) of coal-fired plants in Germany, 38 percent of its total European capacity -- fell 4.6 percent to a six-week low.
Christian Democratic Union CDU party leader and German Chancellor Angela Merkel arrives for a news conference at the CDU party headquarters, the day after the general election (Bundestagswahl) in Berlin, Germany September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Kai Pfaffenbach

The party campaigned to ban the sale of new combustion-engine cars from 2030 and are calling for a quick phase-out of coal power plants.
DIVISIONS

Many Germans were alarmed by the rise of AfD who the foreign minister likened to Nazis.
Protesters threw stones and bottles at police outside its campaign party in Berlin on Sunday.
But just a day after the election, the AfD showed signs of fracturing as co-leader Frauke Petry, one of its most prominent faces, said she would not sit in parliament with AfD members.
It was not immediately clear why she was making such a move.
Slideshow (10 Images)

The election also exposed rifts in Merkels conservatives, with her allies the Bavarian Christian Social Union (CSU), who face a regional election next year, demanding a shift to the right to win back voters lost to the AfD.
They will try their best to recover lost ground on the right side of the political spectrum.
Going into a coalition in Berlin with the Greens and the FDP will make this more difficult, said Janis Emmanouilidis from the European Policy Centre.
Investors were unsettled by the prospect of a weaker Merkel at the head of a potentially unstable Jamaica coalition and also worried that months of coalition talks could distract from talks with Britain over its divorce from the European Union.
The euro EUR=D4 and European stocks slipped, while concerns about the emergence of a more hardline stance toward the euro zone in the bloc's largest economy weighed on Southern European government bonds.
The weak result could make Angela Merkel a lame duck much faster than international observers and financial markets think, ING economist Carsten Brzeski said.
Klaus Wohlrabe, economist at the Munich-based Ifo economic institute, said new elections could not be excluded and the result could stoke uncertainty as German business confidence deteriorated unexpectedly in the weeks before the election.
German business also expressed concern.
Matthias Mueller, chief executive of Volkswagen, said he was shocked by the AfDs double-digit showing and said the success of Europes largest economy hinged on its tolerance and openness to the world.
For Germanys biggest industrial company I say: In the globalized economy, national egoism and protectionism lead to a dead - and in the end a loss of jobs.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho walks to speak to the media outside the Millennium hotel New York, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

UNITED NATIONS/BEIJING/SEOUL (Reuters) - North Koreas foreign minister said on Monday that President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserves the right to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. bombers even if they are not in its air space.
The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York.
Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country, Ri said.
The question of who wont be around much longer will be answered then, Ri said in a direct reference to a Twitter post by Trump on Saturday.
The increasingly heated rhetoric between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un is raising fears of a risk of a miscalculation by one side or the other that could have massive repercussions.
China called on Monday for all sides in the North Korea missile crisis to show restraint and not add oil to the flames.
Ri told the U.N. General Assembly on Saturday that targeting the U.S. mainland with its rockets was inevitable after Mr Evil President Trump called Kim a rocket man on a suicide mission.
Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they wont be around much longer!
Trump said on Twitter on Saturday.
North Korea, which has pursued its missile and nuclear programs in defiance of international condemnation and economic sanctions, said it bitterly condemned the reckless remarks of Trump.
They were an intolerable insult to the Korean people and a declaration of war, the Norths official news agency said on Monday.
Pyongyang accuses the United States, which has 28,500 troops in South Korea, a legacy of the 1950-53 Korean war, of planning to invade and regularly threatens to destroy it and its Asian allies.
The United States and South Korea are technically still at war with North Korea because the 1950s conflict ended with a truce, not a peace treaty.
U.S. Treasury yields fell to session lows after Ris comments on Monday.
DERANGED

In an unprecedented direct statement on Friday, Kim described Trump as a mentally deranged U.S. dotard whom he would tame with fire.
Kim said North Korea would consider the highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history against the United States and that Trumps comments had confirmed his nuclear program was the correct path.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho walks to speak to the media outside the Millennium hotel New York, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Shannon Stapleton

Trump threatened in his maiden U.N. address last Tuesday to totally destroy the country of 26 million people if North Korea threatened the United States or its allies.
Asked how concerned China was the war of words between Trump and North Korea could get out of control, Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang described the situation as highly complex and sensitive.
It was vitally important everyone strictly, fully and correctly implemented all North Korea related U.N. resolutions, Lu said, resolutions which call for both tighter sanctions and efforts to resume dialogue.
All sides should not further irritate each other and add oil to the flames of the tense situation on the peninsula at present, Lu told a daily news briefing.
Slideshow (2 Images)

We hope all sides do not continue doing things to irritate each other and should instead exercise restraint.
Speaking to British Prime Minister Theresa May by telephone, Chinese President Xi Jinping repeated Beijings position that the North Korean issue should be resolved peacefully via talks, state media said.
China hopes Britain can play a constructive role in easing the situation and pushing for a resumption in talks, Xi said.
May, like some other U.S. allies, has pushed for China to do more on North Korea.
Downing Street said the two leaders agreed there was a particular responsibility for China and Britain, as permanent Security Council members, to help find a diplomatic solution.
North Korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear bomb test on Sept. 3.
Pyongyang said on Friday it might test a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific Ocean.
While China has been angered by North Koreas repeated nuclear and missile tests, it has also called for the United States and its allies to help lessen tension by dialing back their military drills.
U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer bombers escorted by fighters flew in international airspace over waters east of North Korea on Saturday in a show of force the Pentagon said indicated the range of military options available to Trump.
In response to a question about the exercises, Chinese spokesman Lu said: A continued rise in tensions on the peninsula, I believe, is not in the interests of any side.
Wang Jingdong, president of the worlds largest lender Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), told reporters during a briefing the bank will strictly implement U.N. Security Council decisions related to North Korea and carefully fulfill relevant international responsibility.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday said his decision to call a snap election would not distract his government from responding to North Korean threats.
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross meets Chinese Premier Li Keqiang at the Zhongnanhai state guesthouse in Beijing, China, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas Peter

BEIJING (Reuters) - The United States hopes there will be some very good deliverables when President Donald Trump visits China, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Monday, striking an upbeat tone amid trade tensions between the two countries.
Trump will likely visit China in November as part of a trip that will take him to an Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) summit in the Philippines and an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit in Vietnam.
Chinas relationship with the United States has been strained by the Trump administrations criticism of Chinas trade practices and by demands that Beijing do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programs.
Meeting in Beijing, Ross told Chinese Premier Li Keqiang he and his delegation had been greeted very warmly which augurs well for Trumps forthcoming trip to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping.
We are looking forward to a very good session including a lot of American CEOs and we hope there will be some very good deliverables, Ross said, in comments in front of reporters.
Li told Ross that the two countries common interests far outweighed their differences and their economic and trade relationship had enormously benefited both countries and the world.
China is the worlds largest developing country while the United States is the worlds biggest developed country, Li said.
In addition to that, China and the United States are the largest trading partners with each other, so I think it is fair to say that our common interests far outweigh our differences and divergences, he added.
Over the years, economic and trade relations between our two countries have always served as a ballast for our overall bilateral relationship and also these important trade and economic relations have benefited enormously our two peoples as well as the whole world.
State media quoted Li as further saying that China hopes the United States will give fair treatment to Chinese companies investments there, as well as ease restrictions on high-tech exports.
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross meets Chinese Premier Li Keqiang at the Zhongnanhai state guesthouse in Beijing, China, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Thomas Peter

Meeting earlier in the day, Chinese Commerce Minister Zhong Shan told Ross that there was huge potential for cooperation and China was willing to manage and control disputes, the ministry said in a statement.
China was willing to create good conditions for Trumps visit and ensure his trip was fruitful, Zhong added.
Xi and Trump met for the first time in person at Trumps Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida in April.
Trump has since played up his personal relationship with Xi, even when criticizing China over North Korea and trade.
The two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting, including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of American beef sales in China.
Slideshow (2 Images)

There has since been limited progress on trade relations.
Rosss visit comes at a time of heightened trade tensions between the United States and China following Trumps decision earlier this month to block a Chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a U.S.-based chipmaker.
In August, Trump authorized an inquiry into Chinas alleged theft of intellectual property - the first direct trade measure by his administration against Beijing.
During his campaign, Trump vowed repeatedly to declare China a currency manipulator once in office but in April backed off from that threat.
Trumps administration has also repeatedly called on China to do more to rein in North Korea and has threatened new sanctions on Chinese banks and other firms doing business with Pyongyang.
China says it is already doing all it can to pressure North Korea and that those countries directly involved in the stand-off on the peninsula should take responsibility for resolving tensions.
There was no mention of North Korea in the comments Li and Ross made in front of reporters.
ERBIL/SULAIMANIYA, Iraq (Reuters) - Kurds voted in an independence referendum in northern Iraq on Monday, ignoring pressure from Baghdad, threats from Turkey and Iran, and international warnings that the vote may ignite yet more regional conflict.
The vote organized by Kurdish authorities is expected to deliver a comfortable yes for independence, but is not binding.
However, it is designed to give Masoud Barzani, who heads the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG), a mandate to negotiate the secession of the oil-producing region.
For Iraqi Kurds - the largest ethnic group left stateless when the Ottoman empire collapsed a century ago - the referendum offers a historic opportunity despite intense international pressure to call it off.
We have seen worse, we have seen injustice, killings and blockades, said Talat, waiting to vote in the regional capital of Erbil, as a group of smiling women, in colorful Kurdish dress, emerged from the school showing their fingers stained with ink, a sign that they voted.
At Sheikh Amir village, near the Peshmerga front lines west of Erbil, long lines of Kurdish fighters waited to vote outside a former school.
Most emerged smiling, holding up ink-marked fingers.
In Baghdad, lawyer Adil Salman said the referendum resulted from the weakness of the Iraqi government.
The scenario were seeing now is of state disintegration, he said.
The Kurds also say the vote acknowledges their contribution in confronting Islamic State after it overwhelmed the Iraqi army in 2014 and seized control of a third of Iraq.
But with 30 million ethnic Kurds scattered over international borders across the region, Tehran and Ankara fear the spread of separatism to their own Kurdish populations.
President Tayyip Erdogan said Turkey could cut off the pipeline that carries oil from northern Iraq to the outside world, piling more pressure on the Kurds.
After this, lets see through which channels the northern Iraqi regional government will send its oil, or where it will sell it, Erdogan said in Istanbul.
We have the tap.
The moment we close the tap, then its done.
The U.S. State Department warned the Kurds last week that holding the referendum in disputed areas is particularly provocative and destabilizing.
The referendum is taking place not only in the Kurdish autonomous region of Iraq, but also in areas in the north of the country where Kurdish forces have advanced against Islamic State.
These areas also have large non-Kurdish populations.
Turkey said it did not recognize the referendum and would view its outcome as null and void, adding that the Iraqi Kurdish government was threatening the peace and stability of Iraq and the whole region.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said his government was evaluating possible punitive steps regarding its border with northern Iraq and air space in response to the vote.
Ankara would make decisions in more direct talks with the Iraqi central government after the referendum and economic, political, diplomatic and military steps were being discussed, he told Turkish broadcasters.
Ankaras forces are again fighting a Kurdish insurgency in Turkey following the collapse of a peace process.
FLIGHT BAN

Iran announced a ban on direct flights to and from Kurdistan on Sunday, while Baghdad asked foreign countries to stop direct oil trading with the Kurdish region and demanded that the KRG hands over control of its international airports and border posts with Iran, Turkey and Syria.
A woman casts her vote at a polling station during Kurds independence referendum in Kirkuk, Iraq September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Thaier Al-Sudani

Major General Yahya Rahim Safavi, a top military adviser to the Supreme Leader Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei, said Iran regarded the referendum as treason against the Iraqi Kurds.
Iran has blocked air traffic to this region but we are hopeful that the four neighboring countries will block the land borders with Iraq too, he was quoted as saying by state news agency IRNA.
Tehran supports Shiite groups who have been ruling or holding security and government positions in Iraq since the U.S.-led invasion which toppled Saddam Hussein in 2003.
Syria, embroiled in a devastating civil war and whose Kurds are pressing ahead with their own self-determination, rejected the referendum.
Iraqi Kurdish prime Minister Nechirvan Barxani said he hoped to maintain good relations with Turkey and the referendum was not a threat to Ankara.
The referendum does not mean independence will happen tomorrow, nor are we redrawing borders, he told a news conference in Erbil.
If the Yes vote wins, we will resolve our issues with Baghdad peacefully, he said.
Slideshow (24 Images)

OPPOSITION

Opposition to the vote simmered among non-Kurdish populations in areas disputed by the KRG and Baghdad, and mainly the multi-ethnic oil-rich region of Kirkuk.
Iraq is against the Kurds, so are the Turks, the Iranians, the whole Arab region and Europe.
They are going to live in a cage, said Mohammed Mahdi al-Bayati, a Shiite Turkmen and a local leader of the Iranian-backed Badr Organisation paramilitary group in Tuz Khurmato, south of Kirkuk.
In Sulaimaniya, a bastion for political groups opposed to Barzani, queues at polling stations were shorter than those in Erbil.
There were fewer billboards celebrating the referendum, reflecting resentment that a yes vote could be seen as a plebiscite for the Kurdish leader.
I will not vote, the referendum is not good, and it could be dangerous because of the threat from Turkey and Iran, said a shop owner in Sulaimaniya, Ali Ahmed.
After World War One, Britain and France carved up the Ottoman empire, leaving the Kurds scattered mainly over four countries: Iraq, Iran, Turkey and Syria.
All of them suffered persecution and were often denied the right to speak their language.
Those in Iraq were uprooted under Saddam and suffered an attack using chemical weapons.
POLLING STATIONS

Polling stations opened at 8:00 a.m. (0500 GMT) and should close at 6:00 p.m. final results were expected within 72 hours.
Voting is open to all registered residents, Kurds and non-Kurds, in the Kurdish-held areas of northern Iraq aged 18 and over, according to the referendum commission.
There are about 5.2 million eligible voters, including those living abroad and who began voting two days ago.
Voters should tick yes or no on the ballot asking them just one question in Kurdish, Turkish, Arabic and Assyrian: do you want the Kurdistan Region and Kurdistani areas outside the (Kurdistan) Region to become an independent country?
Marine Le Pen, member of parliament and head of France's far-right National Front (FN) political party, attends a news conference on the state of emergency bill ahead of the extraordinary parliamentary session opening in Paris, France, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier

PARIS (Reuters) - Marine Le Pen has acted to reassert her authority over Frances far-right National Front with the forced departure of her deputy, but still faces a struggle to persuade the party base that she has what it takes to win an election.
The exit of Florian Philippot, who quit last week over policy differences with Le Pen since her resounding defeat by Emmanuel Macron in Mays presidential election, shows the 49-year-old daughter of party founder Jean-Marie Le Pen can be tough when required.
But her past flip-flops over policy, and less-than-assured performance in a TV debate against Macron before the presidential run-off, have raised doubts about whether she can take the National Front from being a major factor in French politics to a party that can hold power.
Le Pens image has seriously deteriorated, said Frederic Dabi of polling group Ifop, who carried out a survey on Sept 7-8 that shows only 27 percent of voters think she has the stature of a president, down seven percentage points since March.
Her problem in terms of image is not authority, she is seen as being very firm, but it is competence, stature, he said.
Can she be seen as an alternative to Emmanuel Macron?
Its not looking that way.
Le Pen took a lower-than-expected 33.9 percent of votes in the presidential run-off, while her party won only 8.75 percent in the second round of parliamentary elections that followed.
However, support for the European far-right may not have peaked despite setbacks in the Netherlands and Austria too.
At the weekend, the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany scored 12.6 percent in federal elections, becoming the first far-right party to enter the Bundestag in more than half a century -- an outcome Le Pen praised.
[nL8N1M6092] [nL5N1M50PJ]

IMAGE ADJUSTMENT

A lawyer by training, Le Pen took over the party in 2011 and quickly managed to build a broader following.
She succeeded in detoxifying its image, distancing it from the anti-Semitic labels it attracted under her father, and adopting pro-welfare economic policies that appealed to a wider range of voters.
Out went her father, the one-eyed former paratrooper who reveled in provocative comments, expelled from the party in 2015.
In came the daughters softer image, with talk of lowering the retirement age and protecting workers.
She went on TV to talk about her love of gardening.
A lot of that image adjustment was down to Philippot, a graduate of Frances elite ENA administrative school who joined the party in 2011 and quickly rose to the top, an architect of Le Pens 2012 and 2017 campaigns.
But having broken with her father and now with Philippot, Le Pen must now show that she can get the policy mix right before another possible presidential bid in 2022.
The dispute with Philippot came to a head over the partys anti-euro stance.
For her supporters, Le Pens willingness to sacrifice her closest aide when he refused to do what he was told underscores her leadership credentials.
FILE PHOTO: Member of parliament Marine Le Pen of France's far-right National Front (FN) political party poses near a banner of her party in Toulouse, Southwestern France, September 23, 2017.
Banner reads Forward for a new Front (National).
REUTERS/Regis Duvignau/File Photo

It shows that she gives priority to whats good for the party above personal considerations, Gaetan Dussausaye, the head of the partys youth group, told Reuters.
She knows what she wants, shes got strong beliefs and shell do whatever is necessary to defend them, said Dussausaye, who is a member of the National Fronts top political committee.
But others worry about her flashes of aggression and lack of preparedness in the presidential debate, followed by the elections underperformance.
They believe this means she has work to do to persuade the grassroots -- and beyond them, a big enough number of voters -- that shes a winner.
A survey by Odoxa pollsters, carried out on Sept 6-7, showed that the biggest danger for Le Pen may come from within -- from inside the family as much as the party.
This showed Marion Marechal-Le Pen, Marines niece, who temporarily stepped away from politics, is the only top official seen as an asset by a majority of party members surveyed.
More than half saw Marine Le Pen as a liability.
Slideshow (2 Images)

POLICY MIX

Jerome Riviere, a former conservative lawmaker who joined Le Pens campaign team, praised her openness to adjustments, including softening her anti-euro stance.
A good party chief needs to be representative of what grassroots activists want, he said.
But Le Pens handling of the break with Philippot led others to conclude that she no longer knows where she stands.
There is a rise in influence of people who advise her in a way that is not true to her beliefs or good for the party, Alain Avello, a regional councillor, told Reuters.
Avello, who once described himself a Marine-ite, is one of several National Front members to have quit the party after Philippots departure.
A crucial question will be how much Le Pen now allows the partys policies to evolve.
Philippot had long advocated a tough anti-euro and pro-welfare policy, which Le Pen had backed.
But others want the party to re-focus on its anti-immigrant, economically liberal roots.
It is expected to decide a new strategy and policies at a congress in March.
In a letter to National Front members the day Philippot quit, Le Pen said the debate on overhauling the party would continue until the congress.
She will tour France to meet supporters, who will be asked in a questionnaire how they want the party to change.
It is important to me that you, National Front members, be the ones to decide, Le Pen said.
A Rohingya refugee girl reacts as people scuffle while waiting to receive aid in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughton

DHAKA (Reuters) - Muslim refugees seeking shelter in Bangladesh from unimaginable horrors in Myanmar face enormous hardship and risk a dramatic deterioration in circumstances unless aid is stepped up, the head of the U.N. refugee agency said on Monday.
The warning came as Myanmar government forces found the bodies of 17 more Hindu villagers, taking to 45 the number found since Sunday, who authorities suspect were killed by Muslim insurgents last month, at the beginning of a wave of violence that has sent 436,000 Muslim Rohingya fleeing to Bangladesh.
The violence in western Myanmars Rakhine State and the refugee exodus is the biggest crisis the government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi has faced since it came to power last year in a transition from nearly 50 years of military rule.
It has also threatened to drive a wedge in the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), with Muslim-majority Malaysia disavowing a statement on the Myanmar situation from the blocs chairman, the Philippines, as misrepresenting the reality.
U.N. High Commissioner of Refugees Filippo Grandi told a news conference in Bangladesh that solutions to this crisis lie with Myanmar.
But until then, the world had to help the deeply traumatized refugees facing enormous hardship, whom he had met on a weekend visit to camps in southeast Bangladesh.
They had seen villages burned down, families shot or hacked to death, women and girls brutalized, Grandi said.
He called for aid to be rapidly stepped up and thanked Bangladesh for keeping its border open.
Buddhist-majority Myanmar regards the Rohingya Muslims as illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
Fighting between Muslim insurgents and government forces has flared periodically for decades.
The latest violence began on Aug. 25 when militants from a little-known group, the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), attacked about 30 police posts and an army camp.
The United Nations has described a sweeping military response as ethnic cleansing, with refugees and rights groups accusing Myanmar forces and Buddhist vigilantes of violence and arson aimed at driving Rohingya out.
The United States has said the Myanmar action was disproportionate and has called for an end to the violence.
Myanmar rejects accusations of ethnic cleansing, saying it is fighting terrorists.
It has said more than 400 people have been killed, most of them insurgents.
People wait to receive aid in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Cathal McNaughton

HINDUS KILLED

Members of Myanmars small Hindu minority appear to have been caught in the middle.
Some have fled to Bangladesh, complaining of violence against them by soldiers or Buddhist vigilantes.
Others have complained of being attacked by the insurgents on suspicion of being government spies.
Authorities have found the bodies of 45 Hindus buried outside a village in the north of Rakhine State, a government spokesman said, and they were looking for more.
Slideshow (11 Images)

A search was mounted after a refugee in Bangladesh contacted a Hindu community leader in Myanmar to say about 300 ARSA militants had marched about 100 people out of the village on Aug. 25 and killed them, the government said.
Access to the area by journalists as well as human rights workers and aid workers is largely restricted and Reuters could not independently verify the report.
An ARSA spokesman dismissed the accusation that the group had killed the Hindus, saying Buddhist nationalists were trying to divide Hindus and Muslims.
ARSA has internationally pledged not to target civilians and that remains unchanged, no matter what, the spokesman, who is based in a neighboring country and identified himself only as Abdullah, told Reuters through a messaging service.
The government spokesman, Zaw Htay, said Myanmar had asked Bangladesh to send Hindu refugees home.
Suu Kyi has said any refugee verified as coming from Myanmar can return under a 1993 pact with Bangladesh.
A Reuters reporter in Bangladesh said Rohingya refugees were still arriving there, with about 50 seen on Monday.
In a public display of discord within ASEAN, of which Myanmar is a member, Malaysia disassociated itself from a statement issued by group chair the Philippines as it misrepresented the situation and did not identify the Rohingya as one of the affected communities.
Myanmar objects to the term Rohingya, saying the Muslims of Rakhine State are not a distinct ethnic group.
This month, Malaysia summoned Myanmars ambassador to express displeasure over the violence, as well as grave concern over atrocities.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he would dissolve parliaments lower house on Thursday for a snap election, seeking a mandate to stick to his tough stance toward a volatile North Korea and rebalance the social security system.
Abe, in power for five years, had been expected to call the election for next month to take advantage of improved support and disarray in the opposition camp.
Ill demonstrate strong leadership and stand at the forefront to face a national crisis, Abe told reporters, mentioning Japans fast-ageing population and North Korea.
This is my responsibility as leader and my mission as prime minister.
Natsuo Yamaguchi, the head of Abes junior coalition partner the Komeito party, said he understood the election would be on Oct. 22.
Abe said he would redirect some revenue from a planned sales tax hike in 2019 to child care and education rather than paying back public debt, although he added he would not abandon fiscal reform.
Rebalancing the spending would offset the potential negative effect on consumption from the tax rise, he said.
We will turn Japans social security system into one that responds to all generations by boldly diverting policy resources to resolve the two major concerns - child rearing and (elderly) nursing care  that working generations confront, he said.
Abe rejected criticism that holding an election would create a political vacuum at a time of rising tension over North Koreas missile and nuclear arms program.
Pyongyang has fired ballistic missiles over Japan twice in the last month and conducted its sixth and biggest nuclear test on Sept. 3

We must not give in to North Koreas threats.
By gaining a mandate from the people with this election, I will forge ahead with strong diplomacy, Abe said, adding that now was the time to put more pressure on Pyongyang, not open dialogue.
Abe, whose ratings have risen to around 50 percent from around 30 percent in July, is gambling his ruling bloc can keep its lower house majority even if it loses the two-thirds super majority needed to achieve his long-held goal of revising the post-war pacifist constitution to clarify the militarys role.
He said his goal was for his coalition to retain a majority in the chamber.
BIG GAMBLE?
A weekend survey by the Nikkei business daily showed 44 percent of voters planned to vote for Abes Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) versus 8 percent for the main opposition Democratic Party and another 8 percent for a new party launched by popular Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike.
Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe attends a news conference to announce snap election at his official residence in Tokyo, Japan, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Toru Hanai

The Nikkei poll was more positive for Abes prospects than a Kyodo news agency survey that showed his LDP garnering 27.7 percent support, with 42.2 percent undecided.
[L4N1M506P]

Abes image as a strong leader has bolstered his ratings amid the North Korea crisis and overshadowed opposition criticism of the premier for suspected cronyism scandals that eroded his support earlier this year.
Given the results seen in other major developed countries, however, some political analysts are not ruling out the unexpected.
Abes big gamble could yield a big surprise, veteran independent political analyst Minoru Morita said.
Slideshow (8 Images)

The prime minister had been expected to face a grilling over the cronyism scandals during a session of parliament from Thursday and opposition party officials saw the move as a ploy to avoid difficult questions.
Abe on Monday asked his cabinet to compile a 2 trillion yen ($18 billion) economic package by year-end to focus on child care, education and encouraging corporate investment.
He told public broadcaster NHK that diverting sales tax revenue would make it impossible to meet the governments target of balancing Japans budget - excluding debt servicing costs and bond sales - by the year beginning April 2020.
But we are absolutely not lowering the flag of fiscal consolidation, he said.
He said he believed it was necessary to revise the constitutions pacifist article 9 to clarify the militarys status but said the wording of a proposed change was up to his party.
The main opposition Democratic Party is struggling with single-digit ratings and much depends on whether it can cooperate with liberal opposition groups.
On Monday, just hours before Abes election announcement, Tokyo Governor Koike said she would lead a new conservative, reform-minded Party of Hope to offer voters an alternative to the LDP.
Our ideal is to proceed free of special interests, Koike, a former LDP member, told a news conference.
An LDP internal survey showed seats held by the LDP and its coalition partner Komeito could fall to 280 from the 323 they now hold, the Nikkei reported on Saturday.
Reforms adopted last year will cut the number of lower house seats to 465 from 475.
People take part in a gathering in support of the banned October 1 independence referendum in Barcelona, Spain, September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/Susana Vera

MADRID/BARCELONA (Reuters) - Spanish authorities have done enough to discredit and prevent a planned referendum this Sunday on independence in Catalonia, two senior government officials told Reuters on Monday, though they may now let a secession party happen.
There may be a party on Sunday at which, on squares and in streets, some voting stalls may be installed and a mock vote may take place.
But it will not be a referendum, one of the officials said on condition of anonymity.
The officials said Catalonia lacked a proper election commission, ballots boxes, ballot papers, a transparent census and election material, and other material needed to hold the vote.
They also said the result of the vote or a potential unilateral declaration of independence afterwards would not be granted any international recognition or legitimacy.
Not even Venezuela or North Korea will recognize it.
And if they do, I am not sure it would help the independence campaign a lot, the official said.
A girl hugs a Mexican marine officer as she offers hugs to people near the site of a collapsed building after an earthquake, in Mexico City.
REUTERS/Jose Luis Gonzalez

MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Most schools in Mexico City remained closed on Monday after last weeks deadly earthquake, but children outside the capital were set to return to their classrooms even though aftershocks are still jolting the country.
Search operations in Mexico City were narrowed to five buildings destroyed last Tuesday by a 7.1 magnitude earthquake that killed at least 320 people, Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera told local broadcaster Televisa on Monday.
These are the places where rescue efforts continue, said Mancera, ticking off locations in central and southern portions of the metropolis.
The quake rendered thousands of people homeless, with many of them living in tents in the streets or emergency shelters, but there were signs the 20 million people who live in Mexico City's greater metropolitan area were gradually resuming their routines.
(Graphics on 'Earthquake strikes Mexico' - here)

Our neighborhood is in mourning, said Deborah Levy, 44, from the trendy Condesa district that was among the worst hit by the quake.
Some neighbors and friends got together (Sunday).
We went to eat to cheer ourselves up, looking for a little normality.
Some of the most affected neighborhoods, those built on top of a soft ancient lake bed, still had entire blocks cordoned off.
More than 44,000 schools in six states were due to reopen on Monday, but only 103 in Mexico City, or barely 1 percent of its schools, were set to resume classes after they were certified as structurally safe.
Officials said they did not want to impede relief efforts, so more than 4,000 public schools and nearly as many private schools in the capital will remain closed for now.
The National Autonomous University of Mexico, with 350,000 students at campuses in and around Mexico City, resumed classes on Monday.
Of 6,000 damaged buildings, some 1,500 have yet to be inspected, said Horacio Urbano, president of Centro Urbano, a think tank specializing in urban issues and real estate.
Mexican and international rescue teams remove a painting as they search for survivors in a collapsed building after an earthquake, at Roma neighborhood in Mexico City.
REUTERS/Carlos Jasso

Ten percent of the damaged buildings were constructed after 1990, by which time strict building codes had been enacted in the wake of the 1985 earthquake that killed some 10,000 people.
SEARCH FOR SURVIVORS

Search operations, using advanced audio equipment to detect signs of life beneath tonnes of rubble, continued at a few buildings with help from teams from as far afield as Israel and Japan.
At a school in southern Mexico City where 19 children and six adults had previously been reported killed, officials recovered another body on Sunday, that of an adult women.
Slideshow (12 Images)

The search for survivors continued in a ruined office building in the Roma neighborhood and in a five-story apartment building in historic Tlalpan.
Authorities called off efforts in the upper-middle class Lindavista zone after pulling 10 bodies from the rubble over several days, and work at the Tlalpan building was briefly halted on Saturday by a magnitude 6.2 aftershock.
Another 5.7 aftershock struck on Sunday off Mexicos west coast, jolting the southwestern part of the country, and seismologists predicted more tremors to come.
While aid and volunteer workers have flooded into the accessible districts of Mexico City, people in more remote neighborhoods and surrounding states have received less attention.
Miguel Angel Luna, a 40-year old architect, joined a caravan of civilians that headed out late last week to help isolated communities scattered around the base of the Popocatepetl volcano, located about 50 miles (80 km) southeast of the Mexican capital.
Around 40 percent of the adobe homes he saw in poor villages had been completely destroyed and some 80 percent were heavily damaged, Luna said.
Were talking about very poor communities, Luna said.
They dont have tools, they dont have materials, they dont have money to rebuild.
In a speech in Istanbul, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey threatened possible military intervention and warned that his country could shut down a pipeline through which Iraqi Kurdistan sends crude oil into Turkey.
Referring to a Turkish intervention in Syria last year, he suggested that Turkey could take similar action in Iraq.
We may enter at night without warning, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Erdogan also said a border crossing from Turkey into northern Iraq had been closed in one direction.
He added that Turkey planned to shut it down entirely.
The Kurdish regions president, Massoud Barzani, said on Sunday that the Kurds partnership with Iraq was over.
He said that Iraqs Kurds could no longer tolerate living in a theocratic, sectarian state, a reference to Irans considerable influence on Mr. Abadis government, which is dominated by Shiite Muslims.
From now on, Kurdistan will be a neighbor of Iraq, but not part of it, Mr. Barzani said.
Voting was also underway on Monday in several contested, ethnically mixed areas of northern Iraq claimed by both Iraq and the Kurdish regional government.
Kurdish fighters known as pesh merga seized control of those areas in 2014, after the Iraqi Army collapsed and fled an assault by Islamic State militants.
The referendums extension to contested areas has angered Baghdad, as well as many non-Kurdish residents who want to remain citizens of Iraq.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Especially contentious is Kirkuk, an oil-rich city inhabited by Arabs, Kurds, Turkmens and smaller ethnic groups.
Baghdad ordered the national police there not to provide security for voting sites, which were to be patrolled by Kurdish security police.
In addition, Turkey fears that Turkmens living in disputed areas could be threatened by Kurdish attempts to include them in any future state.
Kurdish officials said referendum results would be announced within 72 hours.
They said 3.9 million people were registered to vote, including residents of the disputed areas, at 1,700 polling locations.
The referendum, which is nonbinding outside the Kurdish region, is expected to pass by a comfortable margin, especially after two Kurdish political parties that had opposed the measure said Sunday night that they would support it.
Turnout will be a significant gauge of the depth of opposition to the vote among many Kurds, who say the region lacks the democratic institutions necessary for nationhood.
Some Kurds who favor independence eventually, but not now, are expected to register their displeasure by staying home.
She has become a more outspoken defender of human rights, of sympathy toward refugees and of the need to reduce carbon emissions.
As she said in May, disappointed with Mr. Trumps ambivalent positions on NATO, Russia, climate change and trade, the times in which we could rely fully on others  they are somewhat over.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Re-elected on Sunday, the pragmatic Ms. Merkel will not recoil from new responsibilities, analysts and experts suggested.
Instead, she wants to use her standing to set the European Union on a more stable, viable course, making it and Germany a larger and perhaps more rational force in an increasingly rancorous world.
But first she will have the difficult task of cobbling together a new governing coalition, with the Social Democrats going into opposition, and that could take weeks.
With support for both main parties dropping, and the far-right Alternative for Germany getting around 13 percent of the vote, she will need to patch together a government with the Free Democrats and the Greens, who rarely see eye to eye.
She is a pillar of stability and certainty in a world navigating uncharted waters, said Ivan Vejvoda, the director of the Europe project at the Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna.
Merkel has reluctantly been thrust into the role of the Wests most outspoken defender of the liberal democratic order, while at the same time engaging in realpolitik, seeking to resolve outstanding global challenges.
Photo

For someone who has always disliked being singled out or put on a pedestal, Mr. Kornelius said, this is a major change.
But in the face of challenges from Mr. Trump, Mr. Putin and Mr. Erdogan, she has understood that Germany is a middle power in the middle of everything, and she has to deal with these guys or neglect her duty to her people, said Volker Perthes, the director of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs in Berlin.
Having grown up in East Germany, she has learned in her biography that standing up for the rule of law and liberal values is worth it, and shes very sincere in that, Mr. Perthes said.
As she once told the right-wing Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orban, in a rebuke of his harsh stance against refugees, I lived behind a fence long enough, adding: It is not something I wish to do again.
But it is the future of Europe and the European Union, with all of its problems of currency, trade imbalances, sovereign debt, terrorism, migration, defense, demography, youth unemployment and slow but gradually improving growth that really preoccupies her.
Photo

Especially after the global financial meltdown in 2008, Ms. Merkel grew into a leadership role as the weight in Europe shifted.
After 2012 you could really feel it, Mr. Kornelius said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Merkel delayed, but finally made the controversial choice, against the advice of her powerful finance minister, Wolfgang Schuble, to keep Greece inside the common euro currency.
She prevented the euro from collapsing and probably the entire European Union from breaking apart, Mr. Kornelius said.
She led the Western response to the Russian annexation of Crimea, has been a bulwark against far-right parties and populism, has pushed for aid to Syria and North Africa, has been forthright in defending the Paris agreement on climate change, has committed rich Germany to spend significantly more on European defense and has urged German and European participation in diplomatic efforts to end the crisis over North Korea.
The new role is simply a reality, said Daniela Schwarzer, the director of the German Council on Foreign Relations in Berlin.
Germany is already in a leadership role.
Its most clear inside the E.U.
since the eurozone crisis.
But now it is implementing a normative approach to foreign policy based on international agreements and the rule of law.
As the United States under Trump pulls away from that role, Germany has a huge interest in maintaining both the European and global order, she added.
Photo

But to do that Ms. Merkel will need to fix the yawning problems of the euro common currency  the lack of fiscal discipline among member states and also the lack of European institutional backstops  and do it in conjunction with the new French president, Emmanuel Macron.
She will also need to help modernize and reform the European Union so it can function with all its diversity and without Britain, which currently contributes 14 percent of the blocs budget.
And she is committed to paying significantly more for collective defense.
There is no missionary zeal, but a deep sense of duty.
If she thinks about legacy, its to finally get the eurozone right, Mr. Kornelius said.
And she wants to move ahead with a more disparate Europe.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

That Europe must find a better arrangement with more authoritarian outliers like Mr. Orban in Hungary and Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the effective leader of Poland, who value their membership in the bloc but do not always share its values, and do not want the Brussels bureaucracy pushing them around.
It all sounds dull, but she likes that  dullness is her middle name, Mr. Kornelius said.
But its ambitious all the same, even if she moves step by step, as ever with her.
But that suits Europe  you cant revolutionize Europe.
She sits and waits and lets everyone speak, and then she finds a compromise.
That is her strength.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In general, European leaders admit, Ms. Merkel, by virtue of Germanys power and of her own longevity, has the deciding voice in Brussels.
Even in the European bureaucracy, Germany has great sway; taking Europe as a fundamental national interest, senior officials are encouraged to take European jobs.
Savior of the West both gives too much credit to Germany and puts too much weight on it, Ms. Schwarzer said.
Germany still thinks of its foreign policy as predominantly European, within the E.U.
or certainly with E.U.
partners.
Germany never wants to lead alone, she added.
But she will stand up, even against allies, if she sees the principles of the international order undermined.
Thats why the French elections were so important, why Brexit is so painful and why Poland and Hungary are so difficult.
The German election campaign was complacent in a prosperous country, with little debate about the international challenges ahead.
But Ms. Merkels global role may only grow in the next few years, as Germany sees itself more and more as a normal country, restrained but not paralyzed by the Nazi past.
In Germany, Ms. Schwarzer said, you see the impact of history, which is caution and the desire not to be alone.
Still, she said, taking more responsibility and not being able to rely on allies and structures like the E.U., as we could in the last decade, is the new reality.
For Mr. Trump, whose efforts on health care, infrastructure improvements and tax reform are gaining little steam, the new order is a third attempt to make good on his campaign promise to respond to terrorist threats by tightening entry at the nations borders.
In December 2015, he called for a complete ban on travel to the United States by Muslims until our countrys representatives can figure out what the hell is going on, though he later denied that he had sought a religious test on travel.
Officials described the new order as a much more targeted effort than the presidents earlier one.
Each of the countries will be under its own set of travel restrictions, though in most cases citizens of the countries will be unable to emigrate to the United States permanently and most will be barred from coming to work, study or vacation in America.
Iran, for example, will still be able to send its citizens on student exchanges, though such visitors will be subject to enhanced screening.
Certain government officials of Venezuela and their families will be barred from visiting the United States.
Somalis will no longer be allowed to emigrate to the United States, but may visit with extra screening.
Administration officials said that the new rules would not apply to legal permanent residents of the United States, and that visitors who currently hold valid visas from the countries listed will not have their visas revoked.
That means that students already in the United States can finish their studies and employees of businesses in the United States who are from the targeted countries may stay for as long as their existing visas remain valid.
People whose visas expire will be subject to the travel ban, officials said.
People seeking access to the United States as refugees are not covered by the proclamation, officials said.
Entry of refugees is currently limited by the presidents original travel ban, and officials said the administration was preparing new rules for refugees that should be announced within days.
Reaction to the presidents announcement was swift, as some critics of the original travel ban expressed similar concerns about the presidents latest effort to bar potential terrorists and criminals.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Six of President Trumps targeted countries are Muslim.
The fact that Trump has added North Korea  with few visitors to the U.S.  and a few government officials from Venezuela doesnt obfuscate the real fact that the administrations order is still a Muslim ban, said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, Mr. Romero said.
But administration officials  who have long rejected the characterization of the presidents travel restrictions as a Muslim ban,  noted that the latest effort also applies to non-Muslim countries and was based on a rigorous evaluation of each countrys security capabilities.
One official who briefed reporters on Sunday evening insisted that the presidents travel restrictions were never, ever, ever based on race, religion or creed.
In a statement released by the White House, Mr. Trump defended the new proclamation, saying that we cannot afford to continue the failed policies of the past, which present an unacceptable danger to our country.
My highest obligation is to ensure the safety and security of the American people, and in issuing this new travel order, I am fulfilling that sacred obligation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The presidents announcement comes after the administration conducted what it described as an in-depth, worldwide, 90-day review of the security measures in place in other countries to prevent terrorists or criminals from entering the United States by applying to emigrate or to visit with a tourist, work or education visa.
Mr. Trump called for the review  and a temporary ban on travel from several majority-Muslim countries  just days after being inaugurated.
But a fierce legal challenge to the travel ban delayed the security assessment until the summer.
Officials said last week that most nations already met new, minimum standards for identifying and screening potential travelers and sharing investigative information with law enforcement agencies in the United States.
Some nations that initially fell short of those standards agreed to implement changes to avoid travel restrictions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But several countries either failed to meet those standards or flatly refused, officials said.
Homeland Security officials recommended to Mr. Trump in a report last week that he impose the new travel restrictions on the residents of those countries.
The presidents 15-page proclamation accepted the recommendations, spelling them out in detail.
The proclamation imposes the most severe restrictions on Syria and North Korea, which Mr. Trump says fail to cooperate with the United States in any respect.
All citizens from those countries will be denied visas to enter the United States once the proclamation goes into effect.
Most citizens of Chad, Libya and Yemen will be blocked from emigrating to or visiting the United States because the countries do not have the technical capability to identify and screen their travelers, and in many cases have terrorist networks in their countries, officials said.
Officials said Somalia did, barely, meet the security standards set by the United States, but will still be subject to a ban on emigration and heightened scrutiny for travel because it is a safe haven for terrorists.
Officials said that Iran was uncooperative and would be subject to a broad travel ban, but Mr. Trump made an exception for student and exchange visas.
In Venezuela, Mr. Trump restricted only the travel of government officials and their families, writing in the proclamation that the ban was focused on that group because they were responsible for the identified inadequacies in sharing information about travelers.
Mr. Trumps original travel ban prevented all travel from citizens of seven countries: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.
Iraq was later removed from a second version of the travel ban in March after American officials said it had improved its ability to screen passengers and share information with the United States.
In the new security review, Sudan was deemed to meet the security standards and was removed from the list of countries with travel restrictions.
Homeland Security officials had described the previous ban as a temporary pause on travel from certain countries to allow for the review of security measures.
By contrast, the new travel restrictions will be in place indefinitely, officials said.
The United States will consider lifting the restrictions on those countries affected only if they meet the new minimum standards, they said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The presidents announcement could have a dramatic impact on the legal challenge to the previous travel ban, which is under consideration by the Supreme Court after the administration appealed lower court rulings that said the ban was unconstitutional and a breach of Mr. Trumps authority.
Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for Oct. 10, but legal experts said that parts of the case could be moot because of the presidents decision to end that travel ban.
Other parts of the case, including restrictions on refugees coming into the United States, were not affected by Sundays announcement.
A spokeswoman for the Justice Department said Sunday that the solicitor general would be submitting an update to the Supreme Court about the latest travel restrictions on Sunday evening.
The spokeswoman said the administration would continue to defend the presidents lawful authority to issue his executive order.
But lawyers who filed challenges to the presidents previous travel ban left open the possibility that they would also challenge the new restrictions.
This is an apparent effort to paper over the original sin of the Muslim ban, especially when just last week Trump said he wanted a larger, tougher, more specific ban, Mr. Romero said.
The original travel ban was met with angry denunciations from civil rights activists and others who said the president was violating the Constitution by specifically targeting Muslims.
They also criticized Mr. Trumps administration for abruptly imposing the ban, causing confusion at airports as visitors were turned away by border agents who had not been briefed on the new policy.
Administration officials said on Friday that the new policy was the result of months of deliberation that included the State Department, the Department of Homeland Security, the White House and other agencies involved in security and the border.
He added: Although it will be a difficult election, in order to overcome these national problems, I have to listen to the peoples voice.
Mr. Abe is taking advantage of his rising public approval ratings, which have recovered from a nadir reached over the summer.
After his Liberal Democratic Party lost to Ms. Koikes party, Tomin First, in Tokyo elections in July, Mr. Abe appeared at risk of losing the chance to become Japans longest-serving prime minister.
But Mr. Abes robust rhetoric after North Korean missiles recently flew over Japan has helped distract voters from a series of scandals that dogged him all summer.
At the same time, the economy is showing stronger-than-expected growth, bolstering Mr. Abes bid to continue leading the country at a time when the main opposition is so weak.
Photo

He thought politically this is the right time to call the election, said Ichiro Fujisaki, a former Japanese ambassador to Washington, because his party had some problems, but the other partys problems are a lot bigger.
Polls show that close to two-thirds of the public disapproves of Mr. Abes accelerated timetable, given that he is not legally required to call an election until December 2018.
But over the weekend, a Kyodo News poll found that voters who planned to cast their ballot for Mr. Abes Liberal Democrats outnumbered those who would vote for the Democratic Party by more than three to one.
Yet with 42 percent of those surveyed still undecided, Ms. Koikes wild card of a party is likely to capture some of these voters.
The governor herself will not be running for a lower house seat, but she will use her popularity to campaign for her partys candidates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In announcing the new party, which will be called Kibou no To  Party of Hope  Ms. Koike said that she wanted to increase female participation in society and work toward an energy policy that eliminated nuclear power and reduced carbon emissions to zero.
She said she wanted to debate the revision of the Constitution, but she questioned the wisdom of focusing exclusively on the pacifist clause that is at the center of Mr. Abes ambitions.
Ms. Koike called into question Mr. Abes timing in calling for an election.
I see a big question mark on calling an election in the midst of the North Korean situation being so critical, she said during a news conference on Monday.
I wonder if its appropriate in terms of crisis management for the country.
Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo, said Mr. Abe was taking advantage of the North Korean crisis.
He is using the North Korean card to his advantage to call an unnecessary snap election just because it suits him, Mr. Nakano said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Analysts say Mr. Abe has been presenting himself as a force for stability at a time when residents have been awoken by text alerts notifying them of missile launches.
He is also able to leverage the fact that he is one of the few world leaders to maintain a close relationship with President Trump and manage the often unpredictable American president.
North Korea helped Abe raise his support rate, giving the impression to people that Abe is the only man who can deal with the threat from North Korea, said Harumi Arima, an independent political analyst.
Editorials in several mainstream newspapers accused Mr. Abe of cynical timing and of trying to avoid answering tough questions about a pair of influence-peddling scandals in which he is accused of giving favors to friends in the education sector.
Photo

But some analysts said such criticism could backfire if opponents did not present credible campaign platforms.
Elections are the place where lawmakers should talk about their ideas about Japans future, Mr. Arima said.
There is no use if they only complain or grumble.
Still, Mr. Abes call for an early election is not without risk.
The Liberal Democrats currently hold two-thirds of the seats in the lower house, so even if they win a majority, they could still lose seats.
Such losses could jeopardize Mr. Abes desire to serve a third term.
If they lose more than a couple of seats, then in some ways the door is going to slam shut on Abe, said Tobias Harris, a Japan analyst at Teneo Intelligence, a political risk consultancy based in New York.
And even if he serves out the rest of his term, the criticism that he called an election to solidify his personal status  and in the process cost the party a few seats  will be a lot more intense, and there will be a major question about whether he deserves another term.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is not clear whether Ms. Koikes party would hurt Mr. Abes political fortunes or whether it could become a coalition partner for the Liberal Democrats.
So far, four members of the Democratic Party and one from the Liberal Democrats have announced their intention to join the new party, along with a handful of independents.
Those who have said they will join the new party are in favor of revising the pacifist Constitution.
If Mr. Abe aligned with the new party, he could claim that there is more and broader support for his proposals, said Takuji Okubo, managing director and chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors.
In a bow to the sensitivity of the constitutional issue, Mr. Abe did not mention it during his election announcement.
Mr. Okubo said that Mr. Abe would benefit from the recent stabilization of Japans economy.
Mr. Abe has also vowed to use a consumption tax increase to pay for child care and free university and college tuition.
At a meeting with economic policy advisers on Monday, Mr. Abe said he would develop a 2 trillion yen, or $17.8 billion, plan to help improve preschool education and other social services.
The official campaign will begin Oct. 10, and voting will take place on Oct. 22.
When Henry Rodrguez felt the tremors from the southern Mexico quake on Saturday, he fled his home without a shirt, socks or the grab bag he typically keeps with him during any emergency  and there have been many.
Photo

Mr. Rodrguez is the head of mission for Doctors Without Borders in Mexico, and is largely focused on providing psychological care for survivors in the wake of disaster.
He tells his staff members every time they are deployed that to counsel survivors of trauma, they must have their own necessities close at hand.
But this time, he broke his own rule, springing onto the street with everyone else, wearing nothing but a pair of pants.
Days earlier, when the big quake struck, Mr. Rodrguez witnessed the actual catastrophe, a first for him in 17 years of emergency service: the city convulsing beneath his feet, buildings toppling, friends left homeless.
In the last few days, he manifests the same symptoms as his patients  coiled anxiety, sleepless nights woven with nightmares, near constant fear.
This time, Mr. Rodrguez is a survivor.
We are part of a group that has to react to these events, whose responsibility it is to help others, but we are also humans, and we feel these traumas too, he said, processing for the first time the toll the earthquake had taken on his own mental well-being.
When you are there for an emergency, involved in the incident, you become a part of it, too.
Countless Mexicans up and down the economic spectrum have found an outlet helping others, seizing a sense of unity amid the destruction, a remarkable feat in a society typically marked by social divide.
An endless supply of men and women, cloaked in orange vests and white helmets, have marched across the city day and night in search of ways to contribute.
As the recovery effort slows, and shock gives way to the difficult step of trying to absorb what just happened, many have expressed a sense of confusion steeped in sadness.
In Parque Espaa, a verdant expanse with winding pathways and exercise stations in the center of the Condesa district, a sheet of brown paper has been erected for passers-by to write down their feelings and thoughts When the Earth Moved.
Testimonies are scrawled on its surface, anonymous snapshots of grief, sadness and loss.
One writer recalled seeing the first building collapse in the neighborhood, another the moment when a friend passed out while racing out of their building.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We are still in a post-traumatic state where emotions run high, and there is a lot of contained energy, and we dont really realize we are in this state of crisis, said a psychologist, Claudia Quintanilla, her own eyes brimming with tears just hours after Saturdays fright.
We have not rationalized what has happened, and todays new earthquake re-traumatizes all of us.
For some families, the fears go deeper than this particular round of earthquakes, reaching all the way back to 1985, when a powerful earthquake claimed the lives of 10,000 people and pulverized the capital.
(At least 318 people were killed in Tuesdays quake, officials said on Sunday.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nictze Ximena Salcedo said her family lost everything in the 1985 earthquake and fled Mexico for her fathers native Venezuela.
It was not until 2008 that they returned and reclaimed their former life.
Ms. Salcedo, 26, a photographer, lives in the south of the capital, not far from where a school building collapsed, killing 19 children and six adults.
She saw it crumple, sending up a giant cloud of dust and emitting a roar as the concrete split.
Her family home, her photo studio and her parents shop are all now gone, too damaged to salvage or in danger of collapse.
On Saturday, she was taking a shower when the earthquake alarm sounded, setting off panic in the house.
She raced naked from the bathroom, grabbing a blanket to cover herself.
Photo

I stumbled down the stairs soaking wet, slipping, shoeless and scared, she said.
I just want it to be over already.
I just want a little normality back in my life.
Ms. Salcedos parents feel like their lives are playing on a cruel, 30-year loop.
They cant believe its happening all over again, she said.
Stationed in Plaza Ro de Janeiro, in the hard-hit neighborhood of Roma, were at least six different booths offering guided meditation and therapy to distressed residents.
Others offer free massage, tables where children can draw and color, and psychological support.
The smell of incense permeated the stone plaza, which stretches two city blocks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, throngs of residents wandered through Roma and Condesa, quietly absorbing the jarring changes to a once-familiar landscape.
Jos Osorio Cruz stood outside a coffee shop, playing with his 9-month-old son, jogging in place while making faces at the boy.
He seemed calm, even relaxed, going for a stroll with his family in a neighborhood warped by disaster.
Its like our emotions are so conflicted, said Mr. Cruz, 38, a sales manager for Microsoft.
You have this confusion, sadness, and overwhelming fear, and at the same time you know you have to keep fighting and searching for hope.
He held out faith that the incredible civic response of his countrymen might be replicated in other areas of society.
Often, he said, citizens turn a blind eye to the corruption and violence that punctuate Mexican life.
Maybe the disaster was an opportunity to turn the energy of the masses toward bettering the country, he suggested, a prospect that comforted him.
I believe we will push forward as a nation, he said, rocking his son back and forth in his stroller along the jagged sidewalk.
This is an opportunity for the citizens to come together in the spirit of unity, to reconstruct Mexico.
PALANAN, Philippines  There is no road to Palanan.
The town, 190 miles northeast of Manila on a stretch of rugged Pacific coastline, is separated from the crowds and chaos of the rest of the Philippines by a three-day trek through tropical jungle, a seven-hour ride on a wooden pump boat or a 25-minute flight on a three-seater Cessna.
Cloistered in the foothills of the Sierra Madre, Palanans farmers cross fields on the backs of loping water buffaloes.
Children in plaid uniforms walk to school along beaches of white sand.
A few motorcycles with sidecars, brought in on boats, rumble through the carless streets of the dusty town center.
Carved canoes slide down broad rivers, and narrow outrigger boats bob along the shore.
But all that may change.
The government is building a road that will cut a path of more than 50 miles through the Sierra Madre, from Ilagan City, the capital of Isabela Province, to Divilacan, a neighboring town, with plans to continue it into Palanan and a scattering of nearby villages.
These developments do not suggest that Mr. Assad has an easy road ahead.
He remains a pariah in much of the world, presiding over a blasted, divided land.
If he emerges victorious, he is likely to be left with a weak state that is beholden to foreign powers and lacks the resources to rebuild.
But his endurance has serious ramifications for the country and for the Middle East, affecting the prospects of Syrias future stability, of refugees to return home and of the Syrian government to tap international funds to rebuild its destroyed cities.
It is also a grim, late act in the Arab Spring uprisings that broke out in 2011.
While protests and armed insurrections removed from power the leaders of Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Yemen, Mr. Assad has remained, despite wielding tremendous violence against his people.
Photo

Mr. Assad himself has acknowledged the toll of the war, but argued that it has purified the state by eliminating threats to the nation and uniting Syrians around a shared project.
We lost the best of our youth and our infrastructure, he told a conference in Damascus, Syrias capital, last month .
It cost us a lot of money and a lot of sweat, for generations.
But in exchange, we won a healthier and more homogeneous society in the true sense.
Syrias conflict began in 2011 with a popular uprising against Mr. Assad, which his security forces sought to suppress with overwhelming force.
The opposition took up arms, and the United States, Saudi Arabia and others endorsed the rebels cause, backing them politically and giving them arms and cash.
Now, Mr. Assad has succeeded in dispelling the rebel threat, largely because of the steadfast financial and military support of his foreign backers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His government controls Syrias largest cities and most of its remaining people, who generally live in better conditions than those elsewhere in the country.
His allies  Russia, Iran and Hezbollah  have stood by him, bolstering his depleted military and helping it advance.
The rebels, a disparate collection of factions with varying ideologies, never managed to form a unified front, or to convince all Syrians that they would create a better future.
Extremists linked to Al Qaeda joined their ranks, and their territory has shrunk as their backers have abandoned them to focus on fighting the Islamic State.
The Syrian regime is now the furthest from being toppled, said Bassam Alahmad, executive director of Syrians for Truth and Justice, a human-rights monitoring group based in Turkey.
Fewer powers are interested in making that happen than was the case near the beginning of the Syrian war.
But Mr. Assad is in many ways a limited head of state.
Much of Syrias territory remains out of his hands, and foreign powers have carved out spheres of influence, undermining his claim to rule all of Syria.
Photo

Turkish forces allied with local rebels hold territory in the north, and the United States is working with Kurdish and Arab fighters against the Islamic State in the east.
Even in areas nominally under Mr. Assads control, Russia, Iran, Hezbollah and local militias empowered by the war often exercise greater control than the Syrian state.
And Russia has taken the lead in Syrias international diplomacy, negotiating safe zones with foreign powers around the country to try to stop the violence.
The wars toll has been tremendous and could be a burden on Mr. Assad and his allies for decades to come.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent report by the World Bank put the countrys lost economic output during the first six years of the war at $226 billion, four times its gross domestic product in 2010, before the conflict began.
And while images of Syrias destroyed cities have become common symbols of the wars toll, the cost of unseen factors like broken social trust and shattered social networks could outstrip that of the physical damage many times over, Harun Onder, the reports lead author, said in an interview.
As the conflict continues, it is not only the physical destruction, but also that the degradation in the social fabric intensifies, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Merely by staying in power, Mr. Assad could hinder reconstruction.
Officials in the United States and Europe still hope that Mr. Assad will leave office in an eventual political agreement, but they have vowed not to reward him for his brutality and rampant human rights violations if he stays by helping rebuild the country.
Other countries that support Mr. Assad could help, but their resources are limited.
Iran and Russia are under international sanctions, their economies hurting from low oil prices.
Last month, the government held an international trade fair in Damascus for the first time since 2011, welcoming companies from Iran, Iraq, Russia, Venezuela and elsewhere.
Among the new deals signed were ones for the importation of 200 buses from Belarus and contracts to export 50,000 tons of produce.
Photo

Mr. Assads hold on power could also affect the return of refugees, a critical issue for neighboring states.
About half of Syrias people have been displaced by the war, with more than five million of them seeking refuge abroad.
Many fled attacks by Mr. Assads forces and have no homes to return to.
Others say the situation is not safe or fear arrest or conscription by Mr. Assads security forces.
After years of living in exile, Bassam al-Malik, a businessman and former member of the main exile opposition group, tried to return to Syria this year to sell off some of his property.
Through an intermediary, the government warned him not to return or he would be detained.
Now he was stuck, he said, between the regime and the opposition.
Some Syrians have dropped their opposition and made their peace with a government that seems to be winning.
In 2012, Firas al-Khatib, a star soccer player, told a crowd of screaming fans that he would not play for the Syrian national team as long as any artillery is shelling any place in Syria.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Last month, he returned to Damascus and received a heros welcome at the airport.
Today, we are on the land of our homeland and in the service of our homeland, he said.
The team, which is closely related to Mr. Assad, is still in the running to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.
Other citizens, like the teacher from Madaya, are happy to support anyone who can provide basic security and services.
We are people who walk where the winds take us, she said.
During the siege, we were with the revolution.
Now we are hanging Bashars photos and we sing for him.
Photo

MANILA  The Philippine government said on Monday that it had promised Vietnam a fair and thorough investigation into the deaths of two Vietnamese fishermen as they were being pursued by the Philippine Navy over the weekend.
The fishermen died from gunshot wounds on Saturday as they fled a navy patrol boat about 40 miles off the city of Bolinao in the northern province of Pangasinan, the Philippine authorities said.
A police report said that the navy had fired warning shots at their vessel, and that the boats had then collided.
The Philippine foreign affairs secretary, Alan Peter Cayetano, discussed the episode hours later with his Vietnamese counterpart, Pham Binh Minh, at an informal meeting of Southeast Asian foreign ministers in New York, where they were attending the United Nations General Assembly.
We would like to offer our sympathies over the unfortunate loss of life and give you our assurance that we will conduct a fair and thorough investigation, Mr. Cayetano told Mr. Minh, according to a statement released Monday by the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Philippines and Vietnam are among several nations that have territorial claims in the South China Sea, many of which overlap.
But the episode Saturday did not occur in waters claimed by both countries.
I apologize to all the filmgoers whod pre-bought tickets, he said.
I apologize most of all to them.
Ive let them down.
Neither Mr. Feng nor Huayi Brothers Media, the films main backer and distributor, have explained why the films release was abruptly canceled.
Huayi Brothers declined to comment when called.
But Zhan Jiang, a retired professor of journalism and communications at Beijing Foreign Studies University, said he thought it was definitely done for political reasons, a view shared by critics and fans who pointed to the party congress starting in Beijing on Oct. 18.
Its difficult to say whats problematic about the film, and there shouldnt be any major problems as it had already passed censorship, Mr. Zhan said.
But October is a special time, first because National Day is highly political, and even more important this year theres the 19th Party Congress.
About 2,300 delegates, most of them officials, will gather next month in the capital.
Historically, the party is wary of promulgating anything that is critical, controversial or even downbeat ahead of the meeting.
Users of Weibo, a popular microblogging site, suggested that Mr. Feng had delayed the release as a publicity stunt, or in fear of a poor showing at the box office.
But Mr. Feng said he had no choice.
There are rumors, but no solid facts, about what happened, Zhang Xianmin, a film critic in Beijing, said about the postponed release.
Its possible that this was all about boosting the market for the film, but there could also be substantial censorship problems.
Commercially, it doesnt seem to make sense to postpone.
Delaying distribution will certainly cost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chinese cultural officials have not commented on the delay of the release.
Security at the congress, like other big events in China, will be tight, a measure meant to ensure that no protests, accidents, controversies or surprises sully the spectacle.
Roads leading into Beijing are under tighter security, extra guards are manning buses in the city and officials and the police across China have been admonished to make sure nothing upsets the weeklong meeting.
The only thing that is certain is that pulling this was not a performance directed by Feng Xiaogang, one film enthusiast said on WeChat, a popular Chinese social media service.
Its problem probably has something to do with the war, the comment said.
Its not in keeping with the gentle warmth of this harmonious society.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many Chinese people, especially in Beijing, become inured to the restrictions and security that surrounds big official meetings.
Yet Mr. Feng and others who worked on Youth appeared surprised by the sudden cancellation after cinemas had already started selling tickets.
At the news conference, Mr. Feng did not disguise his frustration.
I tell you sincerely that right now Im feeling somewhat distraught, he said.
We wanted this film to hit the screens more than anyone.
Liang Pengfei, a Chinese film critic, wrote on a Chinese news site, Observer, that the losses caused by suddenly postponing the films release can be estimated to run to tens of millions in Chinese renminbi, which would be millions in dollars.
Mr. Feng, 59, is a popular director who has learned to work within, and sometimes adroitly nudge against, Chinas heavy boundaries of censorship.
He often sets his stories during dramatic historical events, such as Chinas massive Tangshan earthquake of 1976, and a famine in the 1940s.
Yet Mr. Feng also steers away from overt political messages, preferring to dwell on personal drama.
Youth adds a patina of romance to its depiction of Maos traumatic Cultural Revolution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As.
Mr. Zhan noted, Youth had already passed the scrutiny of Chinese censors, and it was shown at the Toronto Film Festival this month.
But the memories and themes evoked by the film may have prompted senior officials to reverse approval for its release during this sensitive political season.
Based on a novel of the same name, Youth tells the story of He Xiaoping, a young woman in a Peoples Liberation Army dance troupe, who ends up dragged into Chinas brief war with Vietnam in 1979.
Before she joined the troupe, her father was condemned as an enemy of the party and sent to a labor camp.
These hints at Chinas harsh past may have been too much for officials.
Under Mr. Xi, historians and writers have come under increased pressure to steer away from discussing the Cultural Revolution, the convulsive and often bloody political campaign that Mao launched in 1966.
The 50th anniversary of the start of the Cultural Revolution passed last year in near-total official silence, and unofficial commemoration was discouraged.
China went to war with Vietnam in 1979 after Deng Xiaoping, who had recently returned to power, pushed to punish Vietnam for occupying Cambodia and overthrowing the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a Chinese ally.
The Peoples Liberation Armys incursions into Vietnam, however, did not go as planned, and even today some Chinese veterans of the war say their sacrifice and needs have been ignored by the government.
This is not extolling war, Mr. Feng said of Youth last month.
Its to make audiences see the cruelty and terror of war.
On Sunday, he said a new release date would be announced later.
This is not the first time the filmmaker has seen a release date abruptly changed.
Last year, his film I Am Not Madame Bovary was released in November, to disappointing box office results, after its National Day holiday release was also postponed, although commercial reasons may have figured then.
Photo

GENEVA  Russia has committed multiple and grave human rights abuses in Crimea since reclaiming the territory three years ago, the United Nations said on Monday, including arbitrary arrests, torture and the imposition of Russian citizenship on residents of the former Ukrainian region.
United Nations investigators have documented evidence of arbitrary detentions, torture and abductions since Russian troops annexed the Crimean Peninsula, according to a report presented in Geneva on Monday and linking abuses to the Federal Security Service, Russian police officers and a paramilitary group.
The abuses included the extrajudicial killing of at least one pro-Ukrainian activist, the panel found, and while dozens of people abducted from 2014 to 2016 have been released, at least 10 are still missing.
Many of the rights violations took place in 2014, shortly after Crimeas annexation in March that year, the report said, but arbitrary arrests are still reported regularly and appear to seek to instill fear and stifle opposition.
The frequency and severity of these human rights violations, together with the lack of accountability, has created an atmosphere of impunity which encourages the further perpetuation of such violations, said Fiona Frazer, who led the investigating mission, which the United Nations General Assembly ordered in December.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By reclaiming Crimea as a part of Russia, President Vladimir V. Putin sought to reverse what he had described as an injustice inflicted by the Soviet Union 60 years earlier.
The move immediately drew international condemnation and sanctions from the European Union and the United States, which are still in place.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October, when a judge ruled that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitle, rather than treating them as contractors.
But in a stunning operation that began late on July 3, 1976, Israeli commandos swooped in.
They killed the hijackers and dozens of Ugandan soldiers, gathered the hostages and flew them to safety.
The raid was carried out with near perfection, though it cost the lives of four hostages and of the commando leader, Lt. Col. Yonatan Netanyahu, the older brother of the current Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.
A new era in counterterrorism had dawned.
Joshua Shani, a retired Israeli brigadier general, was there, having flown the first C-130 Hercules cargo plane to land at Entebbe.
He told Retro Report: It was like the whole world say, Wow, they have chutzpah, these guys.
They are damn good.
They were so good that the United States tried something similar in April 1980 to end a hostage crisis in Iran that traumatized this country.
Fifty-two United States diplomats and other citizens had been taken captive five months earlier under a new Iranian theocracy hostile to America.
From the get-go, this rescue mission, code-named Eagle Claw, would not be an easy assignment for a Delta Force commando unit still in its infancy.
The only difference between this and the Alamo is Davy Crockett didnt have to fight his way in, said Mr. Ishimoto, who was an intelligence officer on the Delta Force raid.
Almost everything that could have gone wrong did.
Two American helicopters were disabled by severe dust storms over Iran.
Separately, a third one broke down.
Still another crashed into a tanker aircraft; eight servicemen were killed.
It was a disaster that left America humiliated  and left the hostages stuck for nine more months.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But failure can be a powerful teacher.
Eagle Claw was.
What emerged within a few years was a well-trained, disciplined force of special operators groomed for counterterrorism, hostage rescue and other demanding missions.
The force today is perhaps 10 times as big as it was in 1980, when its numbers, Mr. Ishimoto said, were between 6,000 and 8,000.
As for successes, one need look no further than the 2011 SEALs raid on a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where the Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was found and killed.
With Americans weary of war without end since Sept. 11, 2001, President Obama withdrew most conventional soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan.
At the same time, he turned the Joint Special Operations Command into a dray horse.
Its members are just about everywhere: Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Pakistan, you name it.
Their impact can be deadly.
But their footprint is lighter, and less costly, than that of a fully decked-out Army operation.
This commando force plainly appeals to Mr. Trump, who has shown scant faith in soft power, the use of diplomacy and humanitarian example to win friends and influence nations.
His budget proposals have included many billions more for the Defense Department and billions less for the State Department and the Agency for International Development.
In his first half-year in office, military special operators were sent on about five times as many lethal missions in what for the United States are non-battlefield countries  Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia  as there had been during Mr. Obamas final six months.
Relying on them so heavily has a price.
Though they make up roughly 5 percent of the total armed forces, they have accounted for at least half of the nations combat deaths since 2015.
The risks were evident mere days into the Trump presidency when a member of the SEALs was killed on a flawed night mission in Yemen that also left more than a dozen civilians dead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its easy to romanticize commandos.
Just ask any Hollywood director.
But they are not supermen.
Even Israeli forces have lost their post-Entebbe glow, with blemished missions in Lebanon and Gaza that led to their own men and innocent civilians being killed.
Some military experts worry that even though the American teams also have chutzpah and are damn good, they are being asked to do too much too often.
These guys truly are amazing warriors, Russell D. Howard, a retired brigadier general who was a special forces commander, told The Cipher Brief, a website focused on security issues.
But theyre more than that.
Theyre smart, flexible, adaptable and unafraid.
The problem, General Howard said, is that the guys are still deployed all the time.
These guys are a national treasure, he said.
In my day, it cost an average of $1 million to train a special forces soldier.
Now it probably costs closer to $1.5 million, and you dont waste that asset.
You use them judiciously when you really need them.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
(Above, the New England Patriots before their N.F.L.
game against the Houston Texans on Sunday.)
Separately, the White House announced a new travel ban targeting seven countries, including Iran and North Korea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And in Puerto Rico, our reporters witnessed some of the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria.
Some areas remain cut off.
It could take four to six months to resume electrical service.
_____

Photo

 Bye-bye, Iraq!
That was a chant among Iraqi Kurds at a secessionist rally in Erbil, the regional capital, ahead of an independence referendum today.
Iraqs prime minister vowed to take necessary measures to preserve the countrys unity.
Nearly every major power in the region has opposed the vote, except Israel.
One reason: A breakaway Kurdistan could prove valuable to Israel against Iran.
_____

Photo

 In rallies across Catalonia, thousands of campaigners handed out ballots for an independence referendum planned for Sunday, which Madrid has deemed unconstitutional.
The Spanish government said that it would centralize the command of all police operations in Catalonia to stop the vote.
Critics of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy say that he had overreached in dealing with Catalan separatists.
(There was even a raid over the .cat internet domain.)
In a much-read Op-Ed, a writer reflects on the United States frequent opposition to secessionist movements elsewhere.
_____

Photo

 In Britain, some observers now see Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, as a prime minister in waiting  an astonishing transformation for a politician who spent decades on the fringes of left-wing politics.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This weeks Labour Party conference could reveal more of his strategy.
He has been vague on how he would handle Brexit negotiations with the E.U., effectively allowing him to blame the governing Conservatives if the outcome is a mess.
Meanwhile, Prime Minister Theresa May offered substantial payments to the E.U.
during a two-year transition period immediately after Britains exit.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 There is a high cost to a bad reputation.
That was the reaction of Ubers new chief executive in an internal email about Londons decision to not renew the companys ride-hailing license.
(Uber now makes more money delivering food than transporting people in some cities.)
A backlash is building in Silicon Valley against the push for gender equality in tech.
Pursued by the authorities, the family behind Unaoil speaks up in Monaco against accusations that it bribed the world.
An analysis of 90 years of stock trading suggests that, with a few exceptions, most stocks arent good investments.
Heres a look at the week in business, and a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Video

 Our videographer went inside the chilling reality of a refugee camp for Rohingya Muslims who fled what rights officials have called textbook ethnic cleansing in Myanmar.
[The New York Times]

 A lawyer for Jared Kushner, Mr. Trumps son-in-law and senior adviser, acknowledged that Mr. Kushner had used his personal email account to conduct government business.
[The New York Times]

 In France, the party of President Emmanuel Macron performed poorly in partial Senate elections.
[Politico]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Relatives of a Syrian activist and her daughter, a journalist, who were found murdered in their apartment in Istanbul last week, blame the Syrian government.
[The New York Times]

 A Swede kidnapped at gunpoint in Mali tells of his six-year captivity and his conversion to Islam.
[The New York Times]

 A Belgian court ordered a Holocaust denier to visit one Nazi concentration camp a year for the next five years and write about his experiences.
[The New York Times]

 Saudi Arabia is investigating how an image of a former king seated next to Yoda from Star Wars ended up in a new textbook.
[The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Video

 Recipe of the day: Avoid the deep fryer.
Bake your chicken tenders.
Use your smartphone to explore a new city like a local.
Action  not fretting  is an excellent career and business strategy.
Noteworthy

Photo

 At the inaugural Laver Cup, Team Europe defeated Team World.
Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer won their first doubles match.
The quality of the spectacle and the depth of the emotions were real in Prague, our columnist writes.
Jellyfish can sleep.
Three graduate students midnight excursion turned into a study that suggests that you dont need a brain to sleep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Our latest 36 Hours guide, on Madrid, makes the case that there has never been a better time to visit the Spanish capital.
Milan Fashion Week: Heres our critics review.
And tag along with the creative director of Tods as he takes us on a Vespa tour of the city.
Back Story

Photo

If youre looking for one of the more giddily narcissistic trends of our time, look to the worlds smallest continent.
When the Oxford Dictionaries crowned selfie its word of the year (edging out twerk) a few years ago, its editors noted that the first known use of the term could be traced to a post on an Australian Broadcasting Corporation forum 15 years ago this month.
There, a tipsy young man posted a photo of his mouth, asking for medical advice for his lip, which hed split open at a party.
I had a hole about 1 cm long right through my bottom lip, wrote Hopey.
And sorry about the focus, it was a selfie.
It was a very Australian turn of phrase.
In Australia, a barbecue is a barbie.
Your work colleague, Mr. Fitzgerald, is more often than not Fitzy at the pub.
Anna Wierzbicka, a linguistics professor at the Australian National University, has described the countrys love affair with such shortenings as reflective of cherished ideals, like mateship, humor, informality and a dislike for long words.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although, given that Hopey turned out to be a man named Nathan Hope, maybe a casual tone is more important than brevity.
Adam Baidawi contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
This briefing was prepared for the European morning.
Browse past briefings here.
We also have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Home mortgages represent a majority of Chinas new household loans by value, adding to a surge in real estate prices.
Car loans have been growing even faster in percentage terms.
And credit card debt is now rising in a country that is otherwise dependent on cash or online transactions.
There are signs that China is moving on the fringes to contain mortgage lending, in part to tame housing costs.
In the past week, banks in Beijing began raising mortgage interest rates.
In a lengthening list of Chinas largest cities, banks are under instructions to discourage the use of personal loans for real estate speculation.
Six large cities established new home sales restrictions in recent days to cool off prices.
Surging property prices have helped keep consumer spending high even as Chinas growth has slowed, giving its economy a lift.
But more debt may not spur more growth  and could pinch the household finances of some.
China will get less of a kick out of consumer debt in the coming 18 months than it did in the past 18 months, said Louis Kuijs, an economist with Oxford Economics, a British research firm.
Some economists also worry that consumer loans may be a backdoor way for bloated companies to maintain or even expand their capacity.
Chinas domestic automakers  many of which are state-owned and suffer from too many underused factories  have unleashed a blizzard of zero-interest car loans in the past two years, often through their own financing subsidiaries.
In that time, the majority of Chinese consumers began to pay for cars with credit instead of cash, according to J. D. Power and Associates, a global consulting firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be clear, most economists consider Chinas consumer credit splurge to be a good thing.
Chinese families are nowhere near the borrowing levels of spendthrift Americans, whose household debt is equal to more than three-quarters of the annual economic output of the United States.
In China, that measure is still less than half.
More Loans Than Growth Household debt is still lower in China compared to the size of the economy than in many countries, but home mortgages, car loans and credit card debt are also growing a lot faster than the Chinese economy now.
Household debt as a share of G.D.P.
100 % Britain U.S. 75 Japan Germany 50 China 25 0 11 12 13 14 15 16

Chinese leaders envision a time when their country, like the United States, derives a major chunk of its economic growth from people buying homes, cars and appliances.
To do that, Chinese households need better access to mortgages, credit cards and other ways to enhance their purchasing power.
Traditionally, Chinas state-controlled banking system focused on lending money to big state-owned companies.
Economists view household lending as an appealing alternative to having banks shovel more money into unprofitable, debt-ridden state firms that cannot be closed because they provide jobs to millions of workers.
So far, consumer lending has helped Chinese consumers weather the gradual slowdown in the countrys economic growth in recent years.
That is particularly true in places like Qiqihar, a city of five million in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang.
The local economy took a hit last year when a large steel mill closed a big blast furnace and overstaffed communal- and state-owned enterprises pushed out more than 40,000 workers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But even here, 500 miles north of Chinas border with North Korea, the local economy seems to be rebounding from a slump two years ago, when the national economy was looking shaky.
Walk out the front door of the recently completed high-speed rail station in Qiqihar and no fewer than 45 cranes are visible, erecting apartment towers and office buildings.
The citys economy grew at an annual rate of 6.4 percent in the first half of this year, up from 5.6 percent in the same period last year and nearly matching the national growth rate of 6.9 percent thus far this year.
Borrowing has been a big help, residents say.
Where apartments once sold for cash only, many people now offer down payments of between 20 percent and 30 percent and take out mortgages for the rest.
Certainly more people tend to borrow when purchasing apartments, said Fu Shiqiang, a real estate agent.
They may want to get a bigger apartment or do business.
Zhao Ying, another property agent, said he used a credit card at supermarkets and shopping malls and bought a $21,000 Toyota Vios sedan last year with a zero-interest loan.
He said he had bought his current apartment with cash but would do things differently next time.
I will definitely get a mortgage, Mr. Zhao said.
It is very convenient, and I could use the leftover money to do some business or investment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Li, the car saleswoman, and her husband built their wealth the traditional way.
They bought an inexpensive, two-bedroom apartment in 2003 when they married.
Her husband was given a small apartment by his employer.
They bought a third apartment as an investment.
Real estate prices have surged since then, and Ms. Li and her husband have cashed in.
They sold all three units and bought a spacious, three-bedroom apartment for themselves and spent $30,000 to remodel it.
They also bought a Volkswagen Tiguan and a Honda Accord.
Their mortgage helps support that lifestyle.
Ms. Li, who said nearly a third of her customers buy with credit, knows that they are not alone.
When I got my first car in 2006, almost no one in my local community had one, Ms. Li said.
Now the roads are packed, and its really hard to find a place to park.
Photo

Nigel Farage, the right-wing British politician and outspoken supporter of President Trump, plans to campaign in Alabama on Monday against the presidents preferred candidate in a crucial Republican Senate runoff.
Mr. Farages endorsement of Roy Moore, a former State Supreme Court justice who leads in the polls before the election on Tuesday, lines up another anti-establishment voice in opposition to Mr. Trump.
He plans to speak at a rally for Mr. Moore that will also include Stephen K. Bannon, the former chief strategist to Mr. Trump.
Im honored to have the endorsement of Brexit leader @Nigel_Farage, wholl join us in Fairhope on Monday, Mr. Moore said on Twitter.
Photo

Mr. Farage, the former U.K.
Independence Party leader who helped lead the Brexit movement, campaigned for Mr. Trump in the presidential election and was the first foreign politician to meet with him after he won.
As president-elect, Mr. Trump suggested that Britain appoint Mr. Farage as its ambassador to the United States, an idea that was quickly dismissed by the British government.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Alabama race to fill the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions pits Mr. Moore, an evangelical favorite, against Luther Strange, who has the support of Mr. Trump and Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader.
Strange was appointed to the Senate this year after Mr.
Sessions left.
During the first harrowing months in the desert, he and the others were blindfolded, bound and moved countless times.
The threat of execution hung over them.
In one of the many ransom videos they were forced to make, they had to wear orange Guantnamo suits, like those worn by the detainees at the United States military prison in Cuba, and to plead for their lives.
I tried to explain that I am Swedish, he recalled.
That we also think Guantnamo is unlawful and counterproductive.
Photo

When he tried to get a sense of his kidnappers motives, they made only vague reference to the invasion of Iraq, the war in Afghanistan and satirical cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad that set off protests when they were published by a Danish newspaper in 2005.
Four months into captivity, the hostages made a strategic decision to convert to Islam.
It was to save my life, he said.
After the conversion they were no longer isolated, shackled or forced to plead for their lives in the many ransom videos that were made.
I see that as the most clear evidence that it actually helped change my situation, he said.
Mr. Gustafsson told his captors that his government would never pay.
When he was released, Swedens foreign minister said it was the result of years of diplomatic efforts, not ransom.
But Magnus Ranstorp, a counterterrorism and security expert with the Swedish Defense University, said it was unlikely that some form of exchange did not take place.
The only thing we know for sure is that not a single hostage has been released without payment, he said.
Its not a charitable organization.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A retired European intelligence official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that 3.5 million euros, or about $4.2 million, had been paid and negotiated through the South African charity Gift of the Givers Foundation for the release of Mr. McGown.
While the United States and Britain adhere to strict no-ransom policies, countries like France and Germany have taken bags full of cash disguised as humanitarian aid to the desert.
From his view inside their camps, Mr. Gustafsson said it was evident his captors had resources.
Theyre well financed nowadays, he said.
They say they didnt used to be, but now they are, and its not difficult to figure out that that is actually the money that has been paid by European governments.
Photo

A 2014 New York Times tally of ransoms collected by Al Qaedas affiliates found that the group had taken in at least $125 million since 2008.
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb rose to prominence more than a decade ago largely because of extraordinary ransom payments, which started in 2003 with the abduction of 32 European tourists who were freed after governments paid an estimated 5 million, or about $6 million.
After their conversion to Islam, the hostages prayed, ate and sat with their kidnappers.
There was no need for prison walls when the Sahara stretched for hundreds of miles in every direction.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
For the next five years, they moved hundreds of times, living outdoors and being guarded by about a dozen rotating men and boys.
Mr. Gustafsson said life in the desert was a cross between a prison sentence and Robinson Crusoe.
We are a group of young guys hanging out in a sandbox, living through the same things  sand storms, problems with the car.
If we dont have water, its the same for all of us.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Between prayers, he occupied himself with exercising and learning the languages of his captors  local languages, Arabic, French.
Mali, a former French colony, has seen decades of tension between the south, where the economic and political power is concentrated, and the minority populations in the north.
In the beginning of 2012, a Tuareg separatist movement calling for a new state, Azawad, swept down from the north.
Photo

In the same year, the military in Mali, displeased with the governments handling of the rebellion, ousted the president.
The north came under rebel control while Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb capitalized on the subsequent power vacuum and took over Timbuktu for a time.
In January 2013, French forces moved into the north.
There were fighter planes in the air, and the kidnappers were constantly on the run, decamping at the first hint of a surveillance plane or anything suspicious, said Mr. Gustafsson.
The hostages stopped counting the moves after they got to 100.
Mr. Gustafsson saw the flights above as an opportunity to escape, and he tried it once, walking into the desert, thinking that they might not dare follow him.
But after he wandered in the desert for two nights, his captors tracked him down.
I think actually I would have walked to my death, he said.
His kidnappers were a motley crew with varying levels of piety.
The leaders belonged to a tough, power-hungry religious sect based in Algeria.
They had quietly infiltrated Mali over the past 15 years, trying to impose Shariah law and recruiting radicalized migrants from nearby countries who were in it for the cause  and the adventure.
The local recruits from Mali, mostly Arabs and Tuaregs from the desert and desert cities, were motivated by financial opportunity, according to Mr. Gustafsson, as well as a hatred toward the power wielded in the south.
They were illiterate, but knew everything about surviving in the desert.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although Mr. Gustafsson was freed in June, it was only recently that he stopped saying In the name of God before every meal.
Other habits acquired in the desert will take longer to change.
He still sleeps with his head under the covers to keep out the sand, and he doesnt bury his hands under the pillow where scorpions might burrow.
Of course it changes you, he said.
In the end, its difficult to put your finger on.
But Im getting out of it.
Im learning to switch.
Will he ever go back to the Sahara?
He said he would, if it were safe.
Im not going to miss those guys, but Im going to miss the desert, the vastness, the night skies, he said.
When you live there, you learn the landscape.
You know where the wind comes from at different times of the year.
You know how the storms move.
All of this is just so majestic.
Detailed plots involving prostitution, rape and masturbation are also forbidden.
So are displays of unhealthy marital values, which the guidelines catalog as affairs, one-night stands, partner swapping and, simply but vaguely, sexual liberation.
Despite the efforts of censors, the internet has long been the most freewheeling of Chinas mass media, a platform where authors and artists  as well as entertainment studios  could reach audiences largely free of the Propaganda Departments traditional controls on broadcasting, publishing, cinema and stage.
But the new restrictions  which expanded and updated a set of prohibitions issued five years ago  reflect an ambitious effort by President Xi Jinpings government to impose discipline and rein in the web.
They were issued by the China Netcasting Services Association, which includes as members more than 600 companies, including the official Xinhua News Agency, the social media giants Sina and Tencent, the dominant search engine Baidu and the news aggregator Jinri Toutiao.
Video

David Bandurski, an analyst and editor for the University of Hong Kongs China Media Project, said the associations rules created the illusion of industry consensus as the companys acquiesced to what party officials call self-discipline.
Many of these companies are private, so its important for the leadership to have a means of bringing them together and creating a means of applying pressure on the collective, he wrote in an email.
It is a tactic of co-option.
Writers, filmmakers, podcasters and others attributed the guidelines and other measures to a new prim and paternalistic ideology taking shape under Mr. Xi, who has called on party members to be paragons of morality in pursuit of what he calls the China Dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many also attributed the tightening of controls to official nervousness ahead of a major Communist Party congress scheduled for October.
The congress is expected to reshuffle the countrys leadership and consolidate President Xis already formidable power.
I feel like people say all the time that after the big congress, things will be O.K., said Fan Popo, a documentary filmmaker whose work has run afoul of online censorship because it explores the countrys conflicted views about homosexuality.
But then he noted how online censorship has also spiked ahead of important state holidays and following unexpected events like the death of the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo.
Its still going on, he said, and its getting worse.
In June, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announced a new rating system for online bookstores and publishers based on criteria that included upholding moral values.
The powerful Cyberspace Administration  the ultimate authority over what is online in China  also shut down dozens of blogs and social media accounts for covering celebrity news and gossip that month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Regulators also ordered two popular video streaming sites, AcFun and Bilibili, to stop showing hundreds of foreign television programs, while other state agencies issued a new rule this month prohibiting video sites from streaming even domestically produced shows without a license.
That essentially subjects online programs  often considered edgier  to the same restrictions governing what is broadcast on television, which critics say is dominated by trifles and propaganda.
The directive also ordered online producers to submit plans for creating new dramas between now and 2021 that praise the party, the nation and heroes so as to set a good example.
Photo

The new industry regulations provoked outrage  online, of course.
The countrys leading scholar of sexuality, Li Yinhe, wrote in a scathing commentary on Sina Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter, that the new regulations violated two basic freedoms.
The first is a citizens constitutionally protected right to freedom of creativity; the second is the constitutionally protected right to sexual freedom of sexual minorities.
When Ms. Li called on people to work toward abolishing screening and censorship rules, her posts were deleted, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the online discussion has focused on the new prohibitions of sexual content and the inclusion of homosexuality among a list of abnormal sexual relations that also included incest and sexual assault.
Critics said the regulation appeared to contradict the governments own position on homosexuality, which it decriminalized in 1997 and removed from an official list of mental disorders in 2001.
Chinas censorship agencies exercise overlapping jurisdiction over the internet and often employ policies that create confusion.
The result has been a layered system of control that begins with self-censorship by those who create online content, followed by policing by web platforms, which are often private enterprises, and finally, when necessary, intervention by government regulators or the police.
Some regulations are explicit  no depiction of killing endangered species or underage drinking, for example.
Others are imprecise.
One, for example, prohibits blurring the lines between truth and falsity, good and evil, beauty and ugliness.
Critics say the rules are meant to be so vague that the authorities can justify blocking anything, as circumstances dictate.
The tightening of content censorship is the general trend, but for content creators, they never know where exactly the lines lie, said Gao Ming, who until recently produced a satirical podcast on current affairs called Radio HiLight.
Like others, Mr. Gao acknowledged softening his commentaries to avoid trouble, trying to work around, or one step ahead of, the censors.
For profit or in pursuit of art, many performers and producers have learn to live with the partys limitations.
Ms. Song, the writer, works mostly in a literary genre known as danmei that has become hugely popular among young women.
Taking its inspiration from Japanese stories and manga, it typically involves homoerotic romances.
Songs work is often serialized, with readers paying for new chapters as they are posted on one of the biggest publishing sites, Jinjiang Literature City.
If I want to publish it, she said of her work, then I need to follow the rules.
Ms. Song, who lives in Wuhan, an enormous city in central China, said some of her chapters have been blocked because sensitive keywords appeared in high frequency.
Usually, she then edits enough of those words out to get her writing past the censors and to her readers.
Ms. Song said she was not particularly worried about the new regulations.
Authors cannot use their works to encourage or incite criminal acts, especially among younger readers, she said.
Literature, after all, has a guiding effect.
The results suggest that populism  and anxieties over security and national identity  are far from dead in Europe.
The shape and policies of a new governing coalition will involve weeks of painstaking negotiations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Ms. Merkel, and the country she leads, now have a major role around the world.
_____

Photo

 President Trump engaged in a war of words with the countrys largest sports leagues, making the N.F.L.s game day one of the countrys most political events of the year.
Teams and owners presented a united front against Mr. Trumps criticism over the role athletes play in the countrys race and social justice issues.
Check here for the latest as Sunday games play out.
Above, players knelt for the national anthem, the exact protest action Mr. Trump demanded players be fired for.
Among his barbs, Mr. Trump revoked a White House invitation to Stephen Curry and his Golden State Warriors to the White House.
Its kind of beneath the leader of a country to go that route, the star player responded.
_____

Video

 Our videographer goes inside the chilling reality of a refugee camp for Rohingya Muslims who fled what rights officials have called textbook ethnic cleansing in Myanmar.
His video captures a sprawling makeshift city in southern Bangladesh that now houses more than 400,000 Rohingya.
For the families who made it this far, the first challenge is food and water.
_____

Photo

 The telling problems of an oil middleman: We took a close look at Unaoil, a go-to agent for multinationals operating in the biggest oil patches on earth.
Above, its chief operating officer, Saman Ahsani.
Its under investigation by Australia, Britain and the U.S. for possibly paying bribes in resource-rich countries, like Iraq and Libya, on behalf of a long list of companies.
_____

Photo

 The Pentagon introduced a $700 million program to destroy the Islamic States increasingly lethal fleet of drones.
Above, one of the drones recovered in Iraq in January.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It also used drones against an Islamic State training camp in Libya, killing 17 militants in the first U.S. airstrikes there since January.
And, in what appears to be a first, a Singaporean ISIS fighter appeared in a recruitment video.
He challenged Britains Prince Harry to fight.
_____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 Uber has successfully barreled into the cutthroat business of food delivery.
UberEats sometimes eclipses Ubers main ride-hailing business in markets like Tokyo, Taipei and Seoul.
Above, the services San Francisco headquarters.
Facebooks response to Russian meddling in the U.S. election follows a pattern, our columnist writes: Mark Zuckerberg often fixes things after theyve broken, rather than preventing problems.
A backlash is building in Silicon Valley against the push for gender equality in tech.
Australias four biggest banks are dropping cash withdrawal charges at A.T.M.s to lift their reputations after a series of scandals.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

 Iraqi Kurds appear to be holding to their plan to vote on independence today, despite enormous pressure from Iraq, regional neighbors, and the U.S. over fears of violence that could tear the country apart.
[The New York Times]



 A tremendous increase in seismic activity has forced more than 35,000 people to flee Mount Agung, a Bali volcano that last erupted in 1963, killing 1,100 people.
[Associated Press]

 Three U.N. soldiers were killed and five others seriously injured by an explosion in Mali.
As of Aug. 31, the four-year peacekeeping mission had recorded 133 fatalities.
[The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Two Vietnamese fishermen were killed and five arrested in what was described as an exchange of gunfire with the Philippine Navy in the South China Sea.
[The Rappler]

 Brexit talks resume today, but divisions within Britains Conservative and Labour parties could endanger Prime Minister Theresa Mays starting position.
[Bloomberg]

 Saudi Arabias 87th anniversary celebrations included an event that allowed women to enter the King Fahd International Stadium in Riyadh for the first time.
[Reuters]

 Thousands of Tibetan mastiffs are roaming wild on the Tibetan plateau after a craze for owning them faded out.
[Quartz]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Photo

 Recipe of the day: Avoid the deep fryer.
Bake your chicken tenders.
Use your smartphone to explore a new city like a local.
Action  not fretting  is an excellent career and business strategy.
Noteworthy

Photo

 Are you a prepper?
Doomsday isnt just for camouflage-clad American cave dwellers hoarding canned goods.
Our style team offers a checklist for the neo-survivalist.
I wasnt really sure what to expect.
A Swedish photojournalist explored the Afghan capital and found Kabuls stylish side in beauty parlors, teens and weekend cricket players.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Finally, birds beware.
Praying mantises prey on small birds more often than realized  especially large species like the Chinese mantis.
Back Story

Photo

If youre looking to point fingers for one of the more giddily narcissistic trends of our time, look to the worlds smallest continent.
When the Oxford Dictionaries crowned selfie its Word of the Year (edging out twerk) a few years ago, its editors noted that the first known use of the term could be traced back to a post on an Australian Broadcasting Corporation forum that came 15 years ago this month.
There, a tipsy university-aged man posted a photo of his mouth, asking for medical advice for his lip, which hed split open at a party.
I had a hole about 1 cm long right through my bottom lip, wrote Hopey.
And sorry about the focus, it was a selfie.
It was a very Australian turn of phrase.
A barbecue is a barbie.
Your work colleague, Mr. Fitzgerald, is more often than not Fitzy at the pub.
Anna Wierzbicka, a linguistics professor at the Australian National University, has described the countrys love affair with such foreshortenings as reflective of cherished ideals, like mateship, humor, informality, and a dislike for long words.
Although, given that Hopey turned out to be a man named Nathan Hope, maybe a casual tone is more important than brevity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Adam Baidawi contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
Browse past briefings here.
We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Photo

Three United Nations troops were killed and five others were seriously injured on Sunday by an explosion in Mali, underscoring the dangers facing the four-year-old peacekeeping mission in the country.
The forces were escorting a convoy around 7 a.m. along a road connecting the village of Anfis to the city of Gao in northern Mali when it either hit a mine or triggered an explosive device, according to a statement by the peacekeeping mission, the Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali, known by its French acronym, Minusma.
My thoughts are with those who died and were wounded this morning and their families, said Koen Davidse, a Dutch diplomat who is the United Nations secretary generals deputy special representative for Mali.
He said the mission had sent a rapid response force to the scene to secure the area and to allow the wounded to be cared for.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The names and nationalities of the troops who were killed and injured were not immediately released.
Mali had been one of West Africas most stable nations before 2012, when secular Tuareg separatists began an uprising, as they had done in the past.
Islamist militants linked to Al Qaeda took advantage of the deteriorating security situation.
The peacekeeping mission was established in 2013 after French forces halted an advance by the militants, who had seized control of the north and threatened to march into the south and into the capital, Bamako.
The government and the Tuareg rebels have signed several peace deals, but implementing them has been difficult, and attacks from the Islamist militants have continued.
MALA OMER, Iraq  The Kurdish soldier, wounded in battle last year, rose in pain from his wheelchair.
As his reedy legs wobbled, his 13-year-old brother thrust a cane into his hand.
The soldier, Dana Salah Hama, was undergoing physical therapy at his home last week to become strong enough to hobble to a polling station on Monday, when Iraqi Kurds plan to vote on independence from Iraq.
For Mr. Hama, and for several million fellow Kurds in the autonomous enclave of Kurdistan, the vote is a down payment on a dream deferred.
Denied a homeland after World War I, Iraqs Kurds are determined to escape their tortured past and fulfill a national destiny: a country to call their own.
Kurds know no one will protect us but ourselves, said Mr. Hama, 35, whose back was injured by an roadside bomb as he battled Islamic State militants last year.
That is why I fought  for the day we Kurds will be both free and safe.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Almost every Kurd in northern Iraq can trace a family history stained by treachery and dispossession: Kurdish women and children killed in chemical attacks, villages razed, Kurdish men detained and murdered, families deported or banished to internment camps.
She said that she would listen to those who voted for the Alternative for Germany, or AfD, and work to win them back by solving problems, by taking up their worries, partly also their fears, but above all by good politics.
But her comments seemed to augur a shift to the right and more of an emphasis on controls over borders, migration and security.
Photo

Despite her victory, Ms. Merkel and her conservatives cannot lead alone, making it probable that the chancellors political life in her fourth term will be substantially more complicated.
The shape and policies of a new governing coalition will involve weeks of painstaking negotiations.
Smiling, Ms. Merkel said Sunday night that she hoped to have a new government by Christmas.
The center-left Social Democrats, Ms. Merkels coalition partners for the last four years, ran a poor second to her center-right grouping, and the Social Democrats announced Sunday evening that the party would go into opposition, hoping to rebuild their political profile.
But the step would also make sure that the AfD stays on the political sidelines and does not become the countrys official opposition.
The Alternative for Germany nonetheless vowed to shake the consensus politics of Germany, and in breaking a postwar taboo by entering Parliament, it already had.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Alexander Gauland, one of AfDs leaders, told party supporters after the results that in Parliament: We will go after them.
We will claim back our country.
To cheers, he said: We did it.
We are in the German Parliament and we will change Germany.
Burkhard Schrder, an AfD member since 2014 from Dsseldorf, was ecstatic.
We are absolutely euphoric here, he said.
This is a strong victory for us that has weakened Angela Merkel.
Photo

Up to 700 protesters gathered outside the AfDs election night party, chanting slogans like All of Berlin, hate the AfD.
Its important to show that its not normal that a neofascist party got into the German Parliament, said Dirk Schuck, 41, a political scientist at the University of Leipzig.
While both Ms. Merkel and the Social Democrats lost significant voter support from 2013, her victory vaults her into the ranks of Konrad Adenauer and Helmut Kohl, the only postwar chancellors to win four national elections.
The election is a remarkable capstone for Ms. Merkel, 63, the first East German and the first woman to become chancellor.
It also represents a vindication of her pragmatic leadership and confidence in her stewardship of Europes largest economy and of the European Union itself in the face of populism, challenges from Russia and China and uncertainty created by the unpredictable policies of President Trump.
Even so, the advance of the far right was a cold slap for her and the Christian Democratic Union, or CDU.
The AfD made particular inroads in the former East Germany but also in Bavaria, where Ms. Merkels sister party, the Christian Social Union, or CSU, has long led but lost some 10 percent of its vote over 2013.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Horst Seehofer, the CSU leader, said, We made the mistake of having the right flank open.
A critic of Ms. Merkels immigration policies, he added, We have a vacuum on the right, we will close it with politics that ensure Germany remains Germany.
Photo

The late leader of that party, Franz-Josef Strauss, said in 1986 that the party should allow no one to run to its right.
To the right of us there is only the wall, he said.
Mr. Seehofer echoed that insight Sunday night.
But others cautioned calm.
We will remember today in history, said Thomas Heilmann, a member of Parliament from the CDU, in an email interview.
As in the U.S., hate became part of politics.
The CDU cannot and must not match this attitude.
Governing Germany will become more difficult, Mr. Heilmann added.
It is definitely not a good day for Germany and most likely not good for Europe either.
Clemens Fuest, the director of IFO, the Institute for Economic Research in Munich, said that the results showed wide concern about security, immigration and possible challenges to the German economic model, like globalization.
These mattered more than the Social Democrats concentration on injustice and inequality, he said.
The other parties should make less of the AfD showing and instead ask themselves what questions they have not answered  questions of borders, migration and the pressures on Germany to do more to prop up other countries of the European Union.
Ms. Merkels conservative bloc won some 32.9 percent of the vote, sharply down from 41.5 percent in 2013, the early results showed.
The Social Democrats slumped to 20.8 percent, a new postwar low, down from 25.7 percent four years ago.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If the Social Democrats hold to their intention to go into opposition, Ms. Merkel will be faced with an unusually difficult task to form a working coalition.
Given the numbers, it would seem that she will have to cobble together her own Christian Democrat-Christian Social Union bloc together with two other parties.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The potential new partners inhabit virtually opposite poles on the political spectrum  the pro-business Free Democrats, who won some 10.4 percent of the vote, and the left-leaning pro-environment Greens, who won about 9 percent.
At the Christian Democrat headquarters, Frank Wexler, a Berliner, called the results a bit depressing.
Grand coalitions had allowed the small parties to gain ground, he said.
The main parties are getting smaller, Mr. Wexler said.
To counteract the AfD, he said, We need to address the issue of strengthening the borders.
But Mr. Wexler said he was most disturbed by the AfDs hostility to the European Union.
This is what Germany needs to do  be a strong leader in Europe.
But Hans Kundnani, an expert on Germany with the German Marshall Fund, said that Ms. Merkel might fail to create the three-party coalition, putting the Social Democrats under great pressure to join another coalition rather than forcing new elections.
To Mr. Kundnani, the big shock is not the AfD, but the loss of support for Ms. Merkels conservatives and the increasing fragmentation of German political life.
Photo

Germany has a complicated system of proportional representation, in which each voter casts one ballot for a local representative and one ballot for a political party.
Those elected locally get their seats.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the parties overall share of seats in parliament is determined by the percentage of votes they win.
Turnout was 75.9 percent, up from 71.5 percent in 2013, but a long way from the 90 percent turnout figures of the 1980s.
Though initially reluctant to run for a fourth term, Ms. Merkel threw herself into the campaign, especially as the government has brought some order to the chaos engendered in 2015 when she threw the countrys borders open to refugees and migrants.
But the backlash over the migrant crisis, coupled with her long period in office and the wishy-washy nature of grand coalition politics, has led to more support for the more extreme, anti-European parties like the AfD and The Left, the heir of the East German Communist Party, which came in third in 2013 and won about 9 percent of the vote on Sunday.
In Dresden, Gert Frlling, 75, a retiree, declined to divulge his party preference, but made it clear that he was sympathetic to some of the Alternative for Germanys proposals.
It all happened too fast, he said, referring to the time after Germanys reunification.
Dresden is a city of bureaucrats and soldiers, and they dumped all this multiculturalism on us at once.
I know we had to change, but it should have happened more gradually.
He said it would be wrong for other parties to refuse to work with the AfD in Parliament.
If they present good ideas, he said, I think its not fair to boycott them.
In Neustadt, a gentrifying area of Dresden, Rebecca Klingenburg, 20, was clearly excited to be one of an estimated three million first-time voters.
One gets to decide on what country one wants to live, she said.
A mechanical-engineering student, Ms. Klingenburg said she was voting to maintain Germanys orientation toward Europe, at a time of rising nationalism.
I learned four languages in school, she said.
I want to make sure that we stay internationally oriented.
Our correspondent reports from a sprawling makeshift city that houses hundreds of thousands of Rohingya people, driven from their homes by Myanmar's military.
So, not surprisingly, Mr. Corbyn has a smile on his famously bearded face these days.
Hed been moldering away in musty old rooms for 20 or 30 years, talking to very small audiences, said Steven Fielding, a professor of political history at Nottingham University.
And now this is someone who could be the next prime minister, and whose supporters think he would introduce the most transformative program since 1945.
Yes, hes going to be enjoying that, he added.
While Mr. Corbyns journey from zero to hero has been remarkable, Professor Fielding says, the party conference in Brighton, England, will bring a new question into focus: whether Labour can shift from a defensive strategy primarily intended to keep control of his party to an offensive one that could take Labour to power.
To do so, Mr. Corbyn may need to evolve from the leader of an insurgent left-wing social movement to the head of a party that can garner broad support.
Since his election triumph, there has been an upturn in his image as a down-to-earth politician who rides a bike, makes his own jam and is a multiple winner of Parliaments beard of the year competition.
When he spoke at the Glastonbury rock festival this summer, the young people in the crowd chanted his name.
While many of Britains predominantly right-wing newspapers remain hostile to Mr. Corbyns agenda, their tone has changed.
Where the news media once pointed to his failure to sing the national anthem as evidence of his unsuitability for high office, recent articles have debated things like whether Mr. Corbyn is turning from vegetarianism to veganism (apparently he is not, though he is eating more vegan food).
The news media were so amazed that the election did not turn out in the way they expected, and that Corbyn did better than predicted, Professor Fielding said, that they have been slightly falling over themselves and into a perspective which has gone slightly beyond reality.
After all, Mr. Corbyn did not win the election, even when up against an opponent, Mrs. May, who proved to be one of the worst top-level campaigners in years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To win a general election, he will have to reach out to new voters, and whether he is in a position to go and win a majority in Parliament is an open question, said Mark Wickham-Jones, professor of political science at the University of Bristol.
We know that the party can mobilize at election time, but whether that sense of Labour as a social movement can become a sense of Labour as a structured political party, we dont know.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
At the conference in Brighton, which runs through Wednesday, so-called Corbynistas may vent their anger at centrist and right-wing lawmakers.
But there is little sign of a concerted effort to deprive right-wing Labour lawmakers of their seats.
That could mean that now that Mr. Corbyns leadership is secure, his priorities are shifting toward seeking control of the country, rather than the party.
That may be hard.
By the time of the next election, the Conservatives are likely to have replaced Mrs. May with a more popular figure, and Mr. Corbyn and his agenda will probably face tougher news media scrutiny.
In policy terms, one crucial test is Britains withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit, the dominant issue in British politics and one that divides Labour, albeit less than it does the Conservatives.
Mr. Corbyn is a lifelong critic of the European Union who nevertheless campaigned last year for Britain to remain in the bloc.
But he did so without enthusiasm, prompting some pro-Europeans to blame him for the vote to leave.
Labours paradox is that, while most of its voters and its young backers wanted to remain in the Union, many working-class supporters in the partys heartlands deserted it, attracted to the Leave campaigns anti-immigration rhetoric.
Mr. Corbyn managed to appeal to both sides in the general election by keeping his Brexit policy fuzzy.
With negotiations on withdrawal underway, Labour argues that it has accepted the outcome of the referendum but wants to retain close economic ties to the European Union in order to protect jobs.
How this might be achieved, while restricting the free movement of European workers, as Labour has hinted it would do, has not been explained.
Mr. Corbyn seems to be listening to his ally Len McCluskey, general secretary of the powerful union Unite, who advocates Britain remaining in the blocs single market and customs union.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So Labour is sticking with constructive ambiguity, opposing Mrs. Mays negotiating strategy, staying vague about what it would do instead, and planning to blame the Conservatives if the outcome is a mess.
So far, that strategy seems to be going to plan, as members of Mrs. Mays cabinet continue to fight a vicious internal battle over Brexit and to position themselves to succeed her.
In fact, it is working so well that William Hague, a former leader of the Conservative Party who accused Mr. Corbyn last year of taking arguments back to the 1980s, recently issued a unity plea to warring colleagues.
If they continue as now, Mr. Hague said, there will be little point in Conservatives discussing who is going to lead them, because Jeremy Corbyn will be prime minister, sitting in Number 10.
LONDON  The British police are investigating a series of attacks on Saturday by a group of men in East London who apparently sprayed acid on a group of people, injuring six.
It was the latest in a series of similar episodes that the police have linked to gang activities in the area.
The police were called to the scene of the attacks at around 8 p.m. Saturday, and they arrested one man on suspicion of causing grievous bodily harm, Scotland Yard said.
The police are not treating Saturdays episode as a terrorism-related attack.
Witnesses told the BBC that a fight had broken out between two groups at a shopping mall, and that afterward victims ran to nearby bathrooms to wash a caustic substance off their eyes and face.
East London has been the scene of other such attacks.
In August, a man suffered serious injuries and scarring when two men threw acid in his face, reportedly because he refused to buy drugs from them.
In July, two teenagers were arrested after carrying out five acid attacks in a little over an hour, in some cases blinding victims astride mopeds and stealing the vehicle.
In April, an attack at a nightclub left a dozen people with severe burns to their faces and arms.
The Metropolitan Police reported 455 incidents in 2016 in which a corrosive substance was used, a sharp increase from 265 in 2015 and 174 in 2014.
Officials have called for tougher sentences, and restrictions on the sale of sulfuric acid.
Video recorded near the scene on Saturday showed police officers and paramedics gathered around a prone victim, with screens erected to shield them from bystanders.
Mr. Mugabe then went on to address Mr. Trump directly, telling him to blow your trumpet in a musical way towards the values of unity, peace, cooperation, togetherness and dialogue which we have always stood for.
Canada

Photo

During his speech, Mr. Trump notably omitted any talk of climate change, seen as one of the most pressing issues for many world leaders.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada received the longest applause during his General Assembly speech on Thursday after an implicit dig at Mr. Trump.
There is no country on the planet that can walk away from the challenge and reality of climate change, Mr. Trudeau said, referring to Mr. Trumps plans to pull out of the Paris climate accord.
Russia

Photo

Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, was quick to embrace Mr. Trumps paean to sovereignty.
It is gratifying to note, as the U.S. President Donald Trump unequivocally stated from this podium last Tuesday, that it is important to comply with the principles of sovereignty in international affairs, Mr. Lavrov said during his General Assembly speech on Thursday.
I believe that anyone can sign on to these words, he added.
But Mr. Lavrov was also critical of Mr. Trumps policies on Iran, saying the world is watching with alarm as the U.S. imposes yet a new set of restrictions against Iran.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Germany

Photo

Sigmar Gabriel, the German foreign minister, delivered one of the toughest rebukes from a longtime American ally.
Taking aim at Mr. Trumps focus on sovereignty, he denounced the national egoism of his speech.
The motto Our Country First not only leads to more national confrontations and less prosperity, in the end, there will only be losers, Mr. Gabriel said Thursday.
This worldview describes the world as an arena, a kind of battleground, in which everyone is fighting against everyone else and in which everyone has to assert their own interests, either alone or in alliances of convenience, Mr. Gabriel said.
In this worldview, the law of the strongest prevails, not the strength of the law.
Israel

Photo

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel praised Mr. Trumps speech in a series of Twitter messages sent shortly after the address.
President Trump spoke the truth about the great dangers facing our world and issued a powerful call to confront them in order to ensure the future of humanity, Mr. Netanyahu wrote Tuesday.
He also applauded Mr. Trumps criticism of the Iran nuclear deal, an agreement that Israel has opposed from the beginning.
Later in the day, Mr. Netanyahu echoed the sentiments in his own speech to the assembly.
Ive listened to countless speeches in this hall, but I can say this: None were bolder, none more courageous and forthright than the one delivered by President Trump today, Mr. Netanyahu said.
President Trump rightly called the nuclear deal with Iran, he called it an embarrassment.
Iran

Photo

President Hassan Rouhani of Iran did not hold back when it was his turn on the podium.
While Mr. Rouhani did not mentioned the American president by name, he took clear aim at Mr. Trump on Wednesday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It will be a great pity if this agreement were to be destroyed by rogue newcomers to the world of politics, Mr. Rouhani said, referring to the nuclear accord between his country and six world powers.
Mr. Trump had assailed the deal as one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into.
Mr. Rouhani praised the agreement as a model and pledged that Iran would not be the first to violate it.
About an hour later, he held an hourlong news conference, in which he demanded an apology from Mr. Trump for what he called completely baseless allegations about Iran.
Its too late to talk about delaying the referendum, Mr. Barzani said in a statement released by his office in Erbil on Saturday.
Its not my decision anymore, he added.
Its a decision for the people.
In a defiant speech on Friday evening to 40,000 Kurds in Erbil chanting Bye-bye Iraq, Mr. Barzani said of Turkey and Iran: You have punished us for one hundred years.
Are you not tired yet?
Both Turkey and Iran fear that an independence move by Iraqi Kurds could set off unrest among their own Kurdish minorities.
Baghdad considers the vote illegal and unconstitutional, and Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq has said his government is prepared to use military force if the referendum provokes violence.
A delegation of Kurdish leaders traveled to Baghdad on Saturday to discuss the referendum with Iraqi officials.
Ali al-Alaq, a member of Iraqs Parliament who has led talks with the Kurds, said in an interview that the discussions would continue over the weekend.
But he said negotiations would end if the vote were conducted on Monday.
Kurdish officials said voting had already begun Saturday among Iraqi Kurdish expatriates in Germany, Denmark, Britain and Switzerland.
Some waved the Kurdistan flag.
The United States and most of the international community have opposed the referendum, saying it could unleash ethnic conflict, break up Iraq and undermine the American-led campaign against Islamic State militants.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Iran, the Kurdish regions eastern neighbor, has threatened border closures, prompting some Kurds to stockpile food and supplies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kurdish officials in Erbil, Iraqi Kurdistans capital, said they were continuing to talk on Saturday with American officials.
The Kurdistan Regional Government has said it would scrap the referendum only if the United States provided an ironclad guarantee of a path to independence within a specified time.
The United States has urged Kurds to cancel the vote and begin negotiations with Baghdad, facilitated by Washington.
Kurdish leaders say they want a public mandate from the Kurdish people before negotiating independence.
After the Americans established a no-fly zone in 1991 that protected Kurdish areas from attacks by Saddam Husseins troops, the Kurds have carved out an autonomous region with its own government, parliament and military.
Kurdish fighters known as the pesh merga have played a central role, alongside Iraqi troops, in operations against the Islamic State.
The referendum would not lead directly to independence, but a strong yes vote would strengthen the Kurdish position in any negotiations with Baghdad.
Rozh Nouri Shaways, leader of the Kurdish delegation in Baghdad, told reporters that Kurdistan was willing to negotiate with Iraq before and after the referendum.
Baghdad and Iraqi Kurdistan are locked in a longstanding dispute over contested areas, including oil-rich Kirkuk, seized by Kurdish fighters in 2014.
Baghdad fears that the independence vote, which includes citizens of the contested areas, would strengthen Kurdish claims to those territories.
The ballot asks voters whether they want Kurdistan and the contested areas to become an independent state.
Kirkuks provincial governor, Najmaldin Karim, a Kurd, urged residents on Saturday to prepare to vote on Monday.
All the preparations have been made, Mr. Karim told the Kurdish news agency Rudaw.
He called the vote historical.
On Saturday morning, the police controlled by the Baghdad government withdrew from their posts in the city of Kirkuk and surrounding areas, according to local officials.
They said that the police and government-paid school administrators had been directed by Baghdad not to assist with the referendum.
Much of the voting is scheduled to take place at schools.
Kurdish officials said security officers from the Kurdistan Regional Government took over responsibility Saturday for security in the area.
Officials in Oruzgan said that a rising Taliban threat in recent weeks had left the government no choice but to shut the clinics  all of them, according to some accounts, or 46 of the 49 operating in the province, other reports said  and then on Saturday the only remaining hospital.
(Later in the day, the hospitals emergency services branch was reopened.)
The Taliban have closed all district health clinics and sent us threats to shut down the hospital, too, so the doctors decided to close it down for their own safety, said Khan Agha Miakhel, director of the provincial health department in Oruzgan.
Mr. Miakhel said the Taliban were demanding that the government select only health officials recommended by their insurgent movement, and that they select the locations of any new clinics.
Other officials said the Taliban also wanted the government to send surgeons and medical supplies to district clinics to care for wounded insurgents.
In the face of the Taliban pressure, the provincial government seemed helpless.
We are working closely with elders and influential people around the province to convince the Taliban not to bring health affairs into politics, said Dost Mohammad Nayab, a spokesman for the governor of Oruzgan.
Zabihullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman, denied that the insurgents had made any threats and said that the clinics had collapsed because of government incompetence and corruption.
All the clinics and the hospital in Oruzgan, they have no facilities  no medicine, no doctors, no personnel, Mr. Mujahid said.
They just keep some guards and cleaners for salary.
There is nothing medical.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
As the Afghan war continues to rage, with varying degrees of fighting in 20 of the countrys 34 provinces, health workers have found that the places where they can function are shrinking.
They have repeatedly come under attack, forcing many clinics and aid groups to reduce their operations or limit their movements.
This month, a physiotherapist working for the International Committee of the Red Cross was shot by a gunman in a wheelchair who had been treated for polio at the same orthopedic center in northern Afghanistan for 19 years.
In places like Oruzgan, where the governments control has been reduced to the capital and areas just beyond it in recent years, residents are stuck between an administration that cannot protect its population and deliver services, and a violent insurgency that cannot meet even their most basic survival needs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although official statistics in Afghanistan are often unreliable, figures from the Central Statistics Organization in 2012-13 put Oruzgans population at about 333,500.
Mr. Nayab, the governors spokesman, said the number could be more than double that.
Mr. Aslam, the father of the child who was turned back from the hospital, said that although the fighting in Oruzgan had forced his family to move 15 times in less than an year, he had put up with it.
But watching his son suffer in his arms was too much.
Now a minor illness can lead to death, he said.
If the government is not able to secure the hospital, which is next to the governors house, how would they be able to secure us in the villages?
A report by Watchlist on Children and Armed Conflict, a New York-based advocacy group that works to protect children, said there had been more than 240 attacks on health workers or health facilities in 2015 and 2016.
Christine Monaghan, a research officer at Watchlist, said that without a hospital in Oruzgan, children who are already malnourished cant get basic services.
She added that pregnant women cant get any type of services that they need.
The war not only threatens children who need immediate care, but also endangers those at risk of disease.
Afghanistan remains one of the few countries still reporting cases of polio, and a crucial national campaign planned for this week to vaccinate children against the disease will have to be delayed in Oruzgan.
The polio drive is postponed until the issue has been resolved with the Taliban, said Amir Muhammad Barakzai, the leader of the provincial council.
In the meantime, the Pentagon has rushed dozens of technical specialists to Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan to help protect American troops and to train and, in some cases, equip local allies against the drone threat, which has killed more than a dozen Iraqi soldiers and wounded more than 50.
The aircraft, some as small as model airplanes, conduct reconnaissance missions to help Islamic State fighters attack American-backed ground forces.
Other drones drop bombs or are rigged with explosives to detonate on the ground.
These things are really small and hard to detect, and if they swarm in groups, they can overload our ability to knock them all down, said J. D. Johnson, a retired three-star Army general who previously commanded the threat-defeat agency, and now heads Army programs for Raytheon.
The threat is very resilient and well-resourced, and we have to be looking one or two moves ahead to defeat it.
American troops are using an array of jammers, cannons and other devices to disrupt, disable or destroy the enemy drones, often quadcopters rigged with explosives.
And the military has increased airstrikes against Islamic State drones on the ground, their launch sites and their operators.
Video

This isnt just an Iraq and Syria problem; its a regional and global problem, Lt. Gen. Michael Shields, director of the threat-defeat organization and one of the two generals overseeing the effort, said in a telephone interview.
These are airborne I.E.D.s, meaning improvised explosive devices.
Indeed, the drone threat is going global.
Iranian drones have buzzed United States Navy ships more than a dozen times in the Persian Gulf this year.
In Europe, American and allied soldiers accustomed to operating from large, secure bases in Iraq and Afghanistan now practice using camouflage netting to disguise their positions and dispersing into smaller groups to avoid sophisticated Russian surveillance drones that could potentially direct rocket or missile attacks against personnel or command posts.
In the United States, the authorities voice increasing concerns about possible Islamic State-inspired drone attacks against dams, nuclear power plants and other critical infrastructure.
Over the summer, the Pentagon issued classified guidance to base commanders around the country to warn local communities to keep commercial drone hobbyists away from installations.
Earlier this month, an Arabic publication offered guidance from the Islamic State, also called ISIS or Daesh, to its followers on how to evade American drones.
This past week, the Islamic State released through its Amaq news agency a video of an operation in which its fighters tracked what it identified as a Syrian news media vehicle and then dropped a munition on it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres a D.I.Y.
aspect to this, said Don Rassler, a researcher at the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, which has studied Islamic State drones.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The peak of the threat came this spring during the fight to wrest Mosul from Islamic State control in northern Iraq, military officials said.
Since then, the military has repeatedly attacked Islamic State drones in the air and on the ground.
Earlier this month, the Pentagon said it had killed Junaid ur Rehman, a senior Islamic State drone pilot trainer and engineer, in an airstrike near Mayadin, Syria, south of Raqqa.
We are destroying their launch points, were killing their engineers, were dismantling their manufacturing facilities and their users, said Col. Ryan Dillon, a spokesman for the American military in Iraq.
Here in Washington, however, Pentagon officials worry about the rapid spread of armed drones to other conflict zones, where the United States and its local partners may be less prepared to confront the threat.
In February, the Defense Department created a special task force headed by Lt. Gen. Anthony R. Ierardi, a top officer on the militarys Joint Staff, to coordinate a Pentagon-wide counter-drone campaign along with General Shields.
Photo

DUBAI  Iran said Saturday that it had successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers, or about 1,200 miles, and would keep developing its arsenal despite pressure by the United States.
The United States has imposed unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying its tests violate a United Nations resolution that calls on the country not to undertake activities related to missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons.
Iran says it has no such plans.
Iran said in its announcement on Saturday that the missile could carry several warheads.
The state broadcaster IRIB showed footage of the missile test without giving its time and location.
It included video from an onboard camera, which the broadcaster said showed the detachment of the cone that carries multiple warheads.
You are seeing images of the successful test of the Khorramshahr ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers, the latest missile of our country, IRIB said, adding that this was Irans third missile with such range.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Khorramshahr missile was first displayed at a military parade on Friday, during which President Hassan Rouhani said Iran would strengthen its missile capabilities.
But what spared this metropolitan area of 21 million was, at least in part, luck.
The 1985 earthquake was 30 times more powerful than the one on Tuesday.
It toppled apartment and office towers, killing more than 10,000 people.
Tuesdays earthquake, while centered closer to the capital, struck hardest at smaller, less populated buildings, taking fewer lives.
They were different seismic activities, in magnitude but especially given the distance, said Dr. Eduardo Reinoso, a researcher specializing in seismic engineering at the National Autonomous University of Mexico.
Because this one was much closer, the shock waves were different.
This quake affected shorter houses and buildings, while in 1985 the collapses were mostly high-rises because of the different waves.
In a 2016 study of a random sample of 150 buildings constructed after 2004, when the new codes were adopted, Mr. Reinoso found that many failed to meet city standards.
In many cases, the buildings reviewed did not even have enough necessary paperwork to conduct a full assessment.
As it often goes in Mexico, it is not the law that is problematic, but rather the implementation.
Whether because of a lack of political will, the corruption that seethes through the system or the dysfunction of the bureaucracy, one of the deadliest threats that the nation faces has been left unfixed.
Once the dust settles, officials will be confronted once more with a choice: whether to truly enforce a public safety imperative or continue with reforms that seem to exist mostly on paper.
Some developers have their preferred inspectors and they usually hire the same person for their buildings, so that inspector is active, familiar, and always has a ton of work, said Jorge Ortiz, an engineer and architect who is one of several hundred contract inspectors for the city.
And sometimes if you have several projects, they arent there as much or are not present at all phases of construction and thats when theres carelessness.
According to last years study, of the buildings that could be fully inspected, 71 percent failed to meet a high threshold of compliance with the city standards, while 36 percent failed to meet even a lower threshold of compliance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It would appear that the regulator is not performing its duty, the study concluded.
But the inspection of older buildings can also be lax, which might have been the case in the tragedy at the Enrique Rebsamen School , where 19 children and 6 adults died this past week following the collapse of one of its buildings.
City code requires that certain buildings, including schools, be inspected for safety after an earthquake.
After a massive earthquake hit Mexico on Sept. 7, an inspector was dispatched to the school.
The contracted inspector signed off on the structure, deeming it safe, said Claudia Sheinbaum, the local delegate in charge of the district where the school is located.
They came to the school to verify the building and said it was O.K., she said.
There are still tens of thousands of pending requests across the city for engineers to review structural damages, so the estimate of damaged buildings is likely to grow.
As in many of the recovery efforts, legions of volunteers have raised their hands to help in the building assessments.
A patchwork group of engineering groups and nongovernmental organizations have taken to the streets to assess the status of structures whose sagging frames pose dangers to neighboring buildings as well as passers-by.
Still, it could have been worse, a message that some in the civil engineering community are hoping to send to Mexico City officials to prompt changes to the conflict-ridden system of building inspections.
We are concerned if we have a huge earthquake like the one in 1985 we may have problems in buildings, said Sergio Alcocer the vice president of the Mexican Society of Civil Engineers and the former head of structural engineering for the governments Center for the Prevention of Natural Disasters.
Its a wake-up call.
Photo

Mr. Alcocer said that while the system was imperfect, he was pleased with how some larger structures held up under Tuesdays seismic shudders.
But he feared that builders, who often hire the cheapest inspectors to review their buildings and may not follow code, might take the wrong lesson from the earthquake if their buildings did not fall.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In another type of earthquake, we could have problems in buildings that fared well this time, he said.
(Yet another earthquake, this one of 6.1 magnitude and centered in the state of Oaxaca, shook Mexico City just before 8 a.m. Saturday, and anxious residents, some in pajamas, raced into the streets.
In the Oaxaca city of Juchitn, several houses damaged in the 8.1 earthquake three weeks ago, collapsed, and so did a bridge.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No two earthquakes are the same, even two that strike in the same seismic region.
The 1985 quake and the one on Tuesday occurred in the same subduction zone, an area where one of the earths large crustal plates is sliding under another.
The 1985 quake, at magnitude 8.1, released about 30 times more energy than Tuesdays magnitude 7.1 quake.
But it also struck twice as far from the capital  220 miles compared with about 100.
There were other differences as well: the 1985 quake was shallower, and even the orientation of the faults  the direction the rocks moved in  was different.
All of those factors affected the toll in destroyed buildings  about 350 in 1985 and one-tenth that number on Tuesday  and in deaths.
Four days after Tuesdays quake, the death toll was still climbing, but the final tally will be nowhere near the estimated 10,000 who died in 1985.
Generally, a more powerful quake would cause more shaking and greater destruction.
Being farther away would tend to reduce the impact.
But in the case of the 1985 earthquake, the larger distance from the epicenter played a critical role in which buildings were damaged and destroyed, and in the death toll as well.
After that quake, engineers noticed a pattern to the destruction.
Of the hundreds of buildings that collapsed or were heavily damaged, most were six to 16 stories tall.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The reason soon became apparent.
High-frequency waves of energy generated by the quake dissipated over the miles to Mexico City, leaving mostly low-frequency waves to reach the capital.
Its similar to how, when listening to far-off music, treble sounds tend to be absorbed and only bass sounds reach the ear.
During the earthquake, those lower-frequency waves rolled through the city about one second apart.
That closely matches the natural resonance, or rate of vibration, of buildings about 60 to 160 feet tall.
Successive waves caused those buildings to sway more and more.
The soft sediments that the city is built on, which tend to amplify movements, made the swaying even worse until the structures failed.
In the quake on Tuesday, however, there wasnt as much distance for that higher frequency energy to be absorbed, said Gavin Hayes, a geophysicist with the United States Geological Survey.
As more of these shorter, faster waves reached the city, smaller buildings vibrated until failure.
Taller buildings were generally spared this time.
Since smaller buildings hold fewer people, that helped keep the death toll down.
But not all larger buildings were spared.
In an area called Portales Sur, which sits on the fringe of the rapidly gentrifying neighborhood of Narvarte, buildings have sprung up in recent years for young professionals looking to own their first home in the city.
The builder of a six-story condominium completed this year promised the latest in technology and design  apartments constructed of concrete and steel-draped elegance.
Rainwater cisterns fed eco-friendly plumbing, while solar panels stationed by the rooftop garden powered units that sold for about $150,000.
The building collapsed on Tuesday, taking with it the lives of two people.
Now, its remains sit in a pile of twisted metal and fractured concrete, testament to the often-shoddy construction and lax inspections that helped clear the way for a voracious real estate boom in the capital, according to experts and officials.
Residents are searching for legal recourse, given the failure of inspectors to detect or report the structural flaws.
They have to.
Many did not have property insurance, as few people do in Mexico, and the developer has claimed the quake was unforeseeable, raising fears among the unit owners that the company may try to abdicate responsibility.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I cant believe something like this can happen in a new building, said Luis Resndiz, 35, a photographer who said he saved for five years to buy an apartment there.
This is the fruit of many years of labor, and here it is, all lost.
Ms. Ardern took control of the Labour Party in July after its leader, Andrew Little, quit amid dismal poll numbers.
She enjoyed a wave of attention for her charisma, her youth (she is 37), and for condemning a television commentators question about whether employers have a right to know whether a woman plans to become a parent.
During the campaign, she emphasized issues including child poverty, environmental management and housing affordability.
Photo

In the end, however, her efforts appeared to have fallen short.
Neither of the main parties won a majority of the 120-seat Parliament, which means that National, with 58 seats, and Labour, with 45, will now try to court minor parties to form a coalition  a process that could take days or even weeks.
Given its advantage, National is more likely to succeed, but to do so, it will need support from Winston Peters, a populist whose right-leaning New Zealand First party won nine seats.
Mr. Peters, 72, who is poised to act as kingmaker, did not tip his hand on Saturday, boarding a ferry to go home as reporters peppered him with questions.
He said he would reach a decision by Oct. 12.
(Although Mr. Peters leans to the right, he is unpredictable, and he could conceivably ally with Labour and the Green Party, which won 7 seats.
Together, the three parties would have 61 votes, a knife-edge majority.
That scenario is considered unlikely but not out of the realm of possibility.)
Amid blue balloons and triumphant applause, Mr. English, 55, told supporters at Sky City Casino in Auckland, We gave it everything, and we got better and better.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Ardern, despite the setback, remains a fresh face in New Zealands male-dominated politics, and she is expected to remain an electoral force.
She helped revitalize Labours popularity and strongly improved the prospects for a party that in the 2014 election won just 25 percent of the vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Ardern reminded supporters that she had once called the Labour leaders position the worst job in politics, adding that she had now changed her mind.
She said that the party and its supporters had given it their all and that, while she had called Mr. English to acknowledge that National had won the most votes, she was not ready to admit defeat.
The campaign was raucous, at least by the standards of New Zealand, a prosperous member of the Commonwealth that has largely been spared the divisive debate over migration that has roiled its larger neighbor, Australia.
Photo

The resignations of Mr. Key and of Mr. Little put new leaders in charge of the two biggest parties.
Then in August, a leader of the Green Party, Metiria Turei, resigned her post because of fallout from revelations that she had lied about her living situation in the 1990s, when she was a single mother, to receive welfare benefits.
The same month, Peter Dunne, the leader of United Future, a centrist party, said he would step down after the election, when it became clear that he could not retain the seat that had kept him in Parliament for 33 years.
Adding more uncertainty to the result is a likely high number of special votes  ballots cast by New Zealanders living overseas and by people registering to vote on the same day they cast their ballot.
The count from those votes is expected by Oct. 7.
In the 2014 election, 12.5 percent of the ballots cast were special votes, and they tend to trend leftward.
National lost one seat, and the Greens picked up one, as a result of the special-vote tally that year.
A major upset in Saturdays results was the vanquishing of the Maori Party, a group which grew out of protest action about indigenous rights to New Zealands foreshore and seabed.
Formed in 2004, the party won two seats at the 2014 election; in the next Parliament, it will have none.
The right-leaning, libertarian ACT party, a traditional coalition partner for National, won a single seat, with its leader, David Seymour, returned to Parliament.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Gareth Morgan, a millionaire making his first attempt at Parliament as the leader of the Opportunities Party, received 2.2 percent of votes, too few to win a seat.
Although B-1B bombers have flown near the Demilitarized Zone over land several times, this flight seemed intended to underscore American military strength to Mr. Kim, who has been engaged in a war of words with Mr. Trump.
At the General Assembly on Saturday, Mr. Ri said that North Korea intended to have a nuclear hammer of justice against its rivals and boasted that it was a few steps away from the final gate of completion of the state nuclear force.
Referring to Mr. Trumps threat  in his General Assembly address on Tuesday  to totally destroy North Korea, Mr. Ri said the American president had committed an irreversible mistake.
None other than Trump himself is on a suicide mission, he added.
But Mr. Ri also said the Norths nuclear program was a deterrent intended to avert an invasion, with the ultimate goal being balance of power with the U.S.

Photo

We do not have any intention at all to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against the countries that do not join in the U.S. military actions against North Korea, Mr. Ri said.
Over the years, as Pyongyang raced to build a nuclear arsenal, the world has often turned to its neighbors for help: China, because of its economic leverage over the North, and South Korea, because it would suffer the most in any military confrontation.
Now, China and South Korea have been left squirming on the sidelines, with Mr. Kim having been essentially granted his wish: dealing directly with the United States, which the North believes has the most to give.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To the North Koreans, the United States can offer a peace treaty, diplomatic recognition, the easing of sanctions and the withdrawal of American troops from South Korea, which the North considers its existential threat.
Since Mr. Kim came to power nearly six years ago, North Korea has accelerated its nuclear and missile tests to grab Washingtons attention and to force negotiations on terms favorable to the North, according to South Korean intelligence officials and analysts who study Mr. Kims motives.
When Mr. Trump made his threat on Tuesday it gave Mr. Kim a perfect chance to square off directly against the United States, they said.
In an unprecedented personal statement on Friday, Mr. Kim called Mr. Trump a mentally deranged U.S. dotard and Mr. Ri raised the prospect of exploding a hydrogen bomb over the Pacific.
To back up such talk, Mr. Kim will probably carry out more weapons tests, analysts said.
A tremor detected Saturday near North Koreas underground nuclear-testing site raised fears of another detonation, but South Korean experts said it appeared to have been a natural earthquake.
We now cant avoid the military tensions on the Korean Peninsula further escalating, said Cheong Seong-chang, a North Korea expert at the Sejong Institute, a think tank near Seoul, the Souths capital.
The standoff is intensifying partly because South Korea lacks capabilities to confront North Korea while the North ignores the South and insists on dealing only with the United States, Mr. Cheong added.
As the crisis spiraled over the last few days, China found itself a bystander  an uncomfortable role for President Xi Jinping, who was most likely seething about Mr. Kim and about the North Korean governments criticism of Chinas most vaunted institution, the Communist Party, as its leadership prepares to meet, analysts said.
The Norths Korean Central News Agency referred to a coming party congress in Beijing in unflattering terms on Friday.
Photo

The quiet in Beijing illustrated Chinas almost complete lack of influence in controlling the North and its unsuccessful efforts to persuade Mr. Trump to tamp down his language, they said.
Fearful of failing and of losing face in a peacemaking role, Mr. Xi would be reluctant to make any diplomatic or strategic moves before the party congress opens on Oct. 18, analysts said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Xi was left merely humoring Mr. Trump by agreeing to tougher sanctions at the United Nations this past week.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I think Chinas diplomatic leverage over North Korea is zero, said Feng Zhang, a fellow at the Australian National Universitys department of international relations.
North Korea doesnt want to see Chinese envoys and is not interested in Chinese views.
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has also found room for diplomacy shrinking, as North Korea and the United States locked themselves in what he called an escalating vicious cycle of provocations and sanctions.
North Korea has not responded to Mr. Moons calls for dialogue as it accelerates its missile and nuclear tests.
When he came to power in May, Mr.
Moon found little leverage left over North Korea: Under his conservative predecessors, South Korea had cut off all trade ties and pulled out all investments in North Korea.
We need a breathing room, an easing of tensions, Mr.
Moon said Friday.
Mr. Trump, however, has said talking is not the answer and ridiculed South Korea for talk of appeasement.
Despite the tightening sanctions, North Korea is unlikely to stop weapons tests until it believes it has enough leverage to enter talks as an equal with Washington, some South Korean officials and analysts say.
It will reach that point when it has secured a capability to deliver a nuclear payload to the mainland United States, they added.
Although Asias regional powers say they want North Korea to stop developing nuclear arms, they are also playing a complex game of geopolitical chess among themselves, which is partly why the nuclear crisis has been so intractable for more than 20 years.
Photo

While Mr. Trump is hinting at military action to rid the North of its nuclear arms, South Korea opposes the use of force, fearing war on the peninsula and an attack on Seoul.
China also does not want war on its border, hoping that North Korea will remain a Communist buffer against South Korea and its ally, the United States.
Mr. Kims refusal to listen to China shows how far apart China and the North have become, said Chen Jian, emeritus professor of history at Cornell University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Kim and North Korea are making more trouble and headaches for Xi and Beijing than anyone else in todays world, Mr. Chen said.
Why should China fight a war against the U.S. for Kim and North Koreas sake?
On Saturday, China said it would ban exports of some petroleum products to North Korea, as well as imports of textiles from its neighbor, to comply with new sanctions by the United Nations Security Council.
Chinas support of the sanctions was largely a nod to Mr. Trump and would be insufficient to cripple the North Korean economy and force it to the negotiating table, Chinese experts said.
Mr. Xi has displayed contempt for Mr. Kim, who is half his age and whom he has never met.
His new envoy for North Korean negotiations, Kong Xuanyou, cannot go to Pyongyang because the North Koreans will not let him.
If Mr. Xi thinks Mr. Kim is a lost cause, he would be more likely to turn to Mr. Trump for solutions, but only after the party congress.
In a reflection of the Norths festering anger at China, the Korean Central News Agency carried a column by a writer called Jong Phil at the same time it issued Mr. Kims denunciation of Mr. Trump on Friday.
The column said that North Korea owed little to the Chinese and that Beijing should consider North Korea more than a buffer zone that protects it from gangsters invasion.
It also questioned whether Chinas news media should be entitled to enter the coming party conference hall because recent reports had been betraying the peoples of the two countries.
Some China experts considered the commentary an attack on a fellow Communist government in almost unheard-of terms.
This is a very big and serious matter, and certainly unprecedented, Mr. Chen of Cornell said.
Even during the Cultural Revolution, when Chinese-North Korean relations reached the lowest point, and the Red Guards were making all kinds of nasty attacks on Kim Il-sung  Kim Jong-uns grandfather  the eldest Kim avoided personally attacking his comrades in Beijing.
In the nearly three weeks since, as leaders of North Korea and the United States have exchanged insults, the world has braced itself for another show of force by the North.
So when the China Earthquake Administration reported a 3.4-magnitude tremor on Saturday afternoon and attributed it to a suspected explosion, the news immediately set off alarm bells.
For now, the tremor appears to have been a false alarm.
We have determined that this was caused by a natural earthquake, not a big one at that, and had nothing to do with any explosion, said Kim Seon-mi, an official at the Korea Meteorological Administration in Seoul, the South Korean capital.
As of Saturday afternoon, however, the Chinese had not modified their assessment, and the United States Geological Survey said in a statement, We cannot conclusively confirm at this time the nature (natural or human-made) of the event.
A watchdog group, the Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, said that it was examining unusual seismic activity but that the tremor was unlikely man-made.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The tremor originated at 5:29 p.m. about 12 miles southeast of the Punggye-ri nuclear test site, in Kilju County, in northeast North Korea.
North Korea conducted its six nuclear tests in underground tunnels at Punggye-ri.
The latest, on Sept. 3, when North Korea claimed it had detonated a hydrogen bomb, generated a tremor measuring at magnitudes of 5.7 to 6.3.
North Koreas foreign minister, Ri Yong-ho, in New York for a United Nations meeting, said on Thursday that the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, was considering a hydrogen bomb test of unprecedented scale over the Pacific Ocean.
Such an atmospheric test would be the first since China detonated a device in 1980, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Advertisement

the look A Mix of Tradition and Trend in Kabul In Afghanistan, the photographer Loulou dAki made appointments to photograph stylish residents of the capital city.
And when the air cooled down, she captured more natural moments in public spaces.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

I wasnt really sure what to expect, Loulou dAki said.
The Swedish photographer, who is based in Athens, has worked extensively in the Middle East.
Before this summer, however, she had never been to Afghanistan.
She was inspired to visit after working on stories about Afghan people in Iran and witnessing the flow of refugees from Afghanistan into Europe.
Her first impressions upon her arrival in Kabul?
Its very, very complicated, she said.
And very dusty.
She went on: And very intriguing and, at the same time, very frustrating.
As a foreign photographer in Kabul, Ms. dAki had to travel with a driver.
You cant really go anywhere you want and do anything you like, she said.
I havent been anywhere where Ive walked so little in three weeks.
She did come across some of her subjects by chance, like the group above, whom she photographed during the Eid al-Fitr holiday.
But for the most part, she made appointments to see people.
Advertisement

I wanted to see this sort of young, well-educated group of people, because they would tend to be less traditional in the way of dressing, Ms. dAki said.
I also wanted to see the traditional hairdressers and beauty parlors, just to see what people ask for when they get there.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Ms. dAki photographed Ali, 14, in jeans, and Setar, 16, in traditional mens clothing, before they went out to meet friends.
When the girls were born, their mother had yet to give birth to a son.
Their parents decided to dress them as boys, Ms. dAki said, in a practice known as  bacha posh .
For families to have a son is very important, Ms. dAki said.
But as teenagers, she said, the girls are confused: They are kind of convinced that they are boys, or they feel like boys.
And today, their parents, who now have a son, want them to behave like girls.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Niki Tak Azizi buys his clothing in flea markets on the streets of Kabul.
His style is more feminine than that of most men in Kabul, Ms. dAki said.
He told Ms. dAki that, like Ali and Setar, he is often harassed as a result of his appearance.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Ms. dAki didnt speak to these men, who were taking photos of each other just before sunset one day during Ramadan.
But they seemed to share her delight in this setting.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Sajid, a student, was home for the summer when Ms. dAki was visiting Kabul.
She photographed him while he was taking a break at a cafe.
In Kyrgyzstan, where hes studying, he buys his clothing in stores.
But back in Afghanistan he would have them made, she said.
He had this white suit made at Laman, a fashion house in Kabul.
His inspiration: classic films.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Fatima Sanzadeh founded what may be the first womens lifestyle magazine in Afghanistan, which she runs with the help of a small team of female staff members.
Ms. dAki, who spent a few hours with Ms. Sanzadeh, said she wears a mix of traditional and Western clothing.
Before I met her, I was expecting something a bit different, Ms. dAki said.
But I think theres also a limit to what you can do as a woman there.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Ms. DAki wanted to find some cricket players.
So late one afternoon, when the air had cooled down, she went to a field, where she came upon this eclectic group.
Shekib Haqiqi, the man standing in the middle, is the team captain.
Advertisement

I interrupted them, Ms. dAki said.
I wanted to take a good picture of them because the light was getting nice.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Nazo, 22, and Saida, 20, are Ali and Setars sisters.
They are extremely feminine, Ms. dAki said.
When she photographed them, they had just come home from work on a TV show, for which they were required to wear these outfits.
For me it was strange how modern this looked  kind of daring, Ms. dAki said.
They both have dyed hair and a lot of makeup.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Samim Halats father owns this kite shop, which has been around for decades.
Its going really well, but this was not kite season, Ms. dAki said.
Samim, who wants to become an engineer, helps his father in the shop every Friday, when he isnt in school.
He wears the traditional clothing every day, but in school he wears jeans and a T-shirt, he told Ms. dAki.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

These girls, dressed up for Eid al-Fitr, ran by Ms. dAki at the Kabul Zoo.
The colors are beautiful, and they kind of wore pretty princess dresses, she said.
This is what you can do until youre a certain age, and then you cant do it anymore.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Salim Shaheen, a prolific Afghan director and actor, is the subject of a documentary film,  Nothingwood , by the French journalist Sonia Kronlund .
Ms. dAki met Mr. Shaheen, who wears tailor-made suits like this one, not long after he traveled to Cannes.
She couldnt help but notice the posters in this room and elsewhere in his house.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Hababs style was influenced by his upbringing in Iran.
His family returned to Afghanistan about a year before Ms. dAki met him.
In their new home, he told her, he doesnt want to change the way he dresses.
It has been quite some time since I studied, and I havent found any work, either, he told her.
To be honest, I cant see much of a future here, so I just put my faith on Allah.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Advertisement

For a few years, Shakira lived in Iran, working in beauty parlors.
When she returned home to Kabul, she opened this salon.
In Iran, she told Ms. dAki, many women go to the salon to have their hair and nails done every week.
In Afghanistan they come for a special reason, Ms. dAki said.
For Shakira, whose clients dont tend to be wealthy, business used to be better.
Shakira said that, in most cases, women come in with pictures downloaded from the internet.
Other stylists in Kabul told Ms. dAki that people there tend to ask for modern haircuts, as opposed to more classic looks popular in the countryside.
In mens salons, Ms. dAki said, she saw more than one photo of Justin Bieber.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Harun Najafizada was a journalist with BBC Persian.
When Ms. dAki met him, the organization had relocated to a temporary office after a major terror attack .
When Ms. dAki began photographing him, Mr. Najafizada decided to put this blazer on over his clothing.
You see men doing that, she said.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

Ms. dAki photographed Mustafa in front of a closed mechanics shop one afternoon.
When she stopped to ask him about his clothes, he told her that he loves wearing traditional Afghan clothing.
Its the Islamic way and the way of his country, so thats how he likes to be dressed, she said.
I think he wore his scarf very nicely.
Ms. dAki took most of her outdoor photos in the late afternoon, when the swirling wind has cooled the air.
The sun goes up so early, she said.
And even if you go out at dawn, youre amazed by how many people are outside.
Image Credit Loulou d'Aki for The New York Times

These men in pakol hats were watching boats near the Qarghar Dam during Eid al-Fitr.
Many men wear them, Ms. dAki said.
I even bought one  its so comfortable.
Im looking forward to the winter.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook ( Styles and Modern Love ), Twitter ( Styles , Fashion and Weddings ) and Instagram .
These suddenly chic survival satchels, also known as go bags, are typically lightweight military-grade backpacks stocked with provisions for at least 72 hours.
Ready-made bug-out bags containing staples like water purification tablets, a 20-hour body warmer and a multifunction shovel are available on Amazon for under than $200.
Hard-core preppers, however, would never leave their survival up to a mouse click, which is why some sites suggest endless creative tweaks to the standard equipment.
Graywolf Survival recommends a chain-saw blade stashed in an Altoids tin to harvest firewood.
Survival Life touts feminine hygiene products, even for men, to soak up blood from wounds.
As long as the gear gets the job done, thats what matters, said Andrew Pontius, a marketing consultant and disaster preparedness instructor in Kansas City, Mo., who helps run a site called Bug Out Bag Academy.
Go for the Silver

Two years ago, Greece was forced to shutter banks and limit A.T.M.
withdrawals to 60 euros a day during a debt crisis that threatened to shatter Europes currency union.
In the United States, prominent authors like James Rickards, a hedge fund veteran, and David Stockman, once the budget director for the Reagan administration, insist that an even bigger crisis will soon tank Wall Street and torpedo the dollar.
No wonder so many preppers, some of them wearing pinstriped suits, consider gold and silver to be a crucial hedge against a crisis.
While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies make news, many preppers are quietly packing their bug-out bags with rolls of pre-1965 American dimes, quarters or half-dollars, which are 90 percent silver and available from coin dealers and precious-metals websites (silver is currently about $17 an ounce).
My preferred form of precious metal post-financial collapse, that is, besides high-speed lead, wrote one prepper on SurvivalistBoards.com.
Unlike gold, which is hovering around $1,300 an ounce, these old silver coins come in small enough denominations to barter for a loaf of bread or a socket wrench in an economic Mad Max scenario.
Even so, some survivalists remain silver skeptics.
For $100, lets say you get five silver coins, said an urban preparedness expert who goes by the nom de guerre Selco.
Why not buy 100 cans of soup?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

3.
Alt-Currencies for the Apocalypse

Imagine a true economic apocalypse, one that makes the German hyperinflation of the 1920s, with its wheelbarrows of near-worthless paper currency, look like a hiccup.
To prepare for the worst worst-case scenario, some doomers prefer daily staples like tampons, vegetable seeds and cigarettes (that timeless prison medium of exchange) to silver or gold as an alt-currency.
Liquor, too  particularly in easy-to-swap airline bottles  would likely prove a hot commodity, since it not only deadens the pain of surviving in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, but, as a blogger named Survival Mom points out, also provides useful off-label functions as a disinfectant or an ingredient in herbal remedy tinctures.
Visions of a barter economy are not necessarily the stuff of doomer fever dreams, said Xavier Thomas, who runs the British site MoreThanJustSurviving.com with his wife, Elise.
If we look at examples of systematic social breakdowns, like Argentina in 2001, or the war in the Balkans, goods that people understood on an intrinsic level clearly carried the most value when trading  cans of food, gas, batteries, cheap Bic lighters, he said.
A good rule of thumb: If youd find it useful in an emergency, youll be able to find someone who will trade for it in an emergency.
Beyond Duck and Cover

When President Trump issued his threat to North Korea at the United Nations, many preppers had an almost Pavlovian response: to check their nuclear survival kit.
Ever since the backyard bomb shelter went the way of tail fins, survival in the face of mushroom clouds has seemed highly relative.
Some preppers place their faith in unproven home remedies, like bedsheets dusted with baby powder, which they hope will block X-rays, or generous helpings of turmeric mixed with black pepper, to inhibit tumor formation.
Others turn to basics, like Geiger counters, wallet-size RAD badges, potassium iodide tablets or a Seychelle radiological family water pitcher, which the manufacturer claims will filter out 99.99 percent of the major contaminants that can be found after a nuclear event.
Or people may just want to stock up on Snuggies, chocolate Easter bunnies, Hummel figurines or vintage Backstreet Boys paraphernalia, which will do about as much good in the event of a direct strike.
The Other Bug-Out Bag

In the event of apocalypse, bring condoms.
This may sound like a slogan from a fraternity party T-shirt, but survivalists absolutely adore condoms.
Featherweight, ultracompact and durable, condoms (nonlubricated, please) can be used as a makeshift canteen to store water, a fire starter or as elastic bands for an improvised slingshot to hunt small game, according to Creek Stewart, a survival instructor and television host.
When inflated, they can also be used as fishing bobbers or signaling devices for semaphore, according to SensiblePrepper.
Oh, and theyre also great for the obvious use, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

6.
Armed to the Teeth, but With What?
Photo

Should law and order on the streets break down after, say, a massive hurricane or nuclear-reactor meltdown, that condom slingshot might come in handy in New York, where possession of the most fundamental survivalist self-defense staple  the gun  is highly restricted by law.
(The same goes for brass knuckles, nunchucks, ninja stars, switchblade knives, wrist-brace slingshots and, that D.I.Y.
prepper favorite, a paint ball pistol loaded with ghost-chili-powder balls.)
So what is a defenseless, law-abiding survivalist to do?
Prepper bibles like 100 Deadly Skills, by Clint Emerson, a former Navy SEAL, are filled with improvised alternative weapons, like a collapsible umbrella lined with wrenches, which is not illegal to possess, a New York City Police Department spokesman said, but would be considered a weapon if you used it on someone.
Sure, you could master jiu-jitsu.
But if its really on, hand-to-hand self-defense will only take you so far, said Jason Charles, a firefighter and organizer of the New York City Preppers Network.
To balance legality with lethality in a bug-out bag, he said, you have to go simpler  hammers, hatchets, certain heavy tools.
That roll of old silver quarters might come in handy, too.
Paddling to Safety

Photo

Manhattanites face challenges unknown to their Western counterparts hunkering in remote desert bunkers.
Their home turf, after all, is not only a prime target, but an island.
In the event of a cataclysmic emergency, bridges and tunnels may be closed, or choked off by marauding mobs, forcing survivors to consider waterborne escape.
A lightweight, folding kayak like the Oru Beach LT is a savvy, albeit expensive option ($1,299), since it weighs 30 pounds (easy enough to tote to the Hudson River if Lyft is offline) and collapses to the size of a suitcase  perfect for those tiny Upper West Side closets.
Sure, kayak pros counsel against newbies attempting a Hudson crossing.
There are strong tidal currents, few places to safely launch or land, and an abundance of commercial and ferry transit traffic, said Randall Henriksen of the New York Kayak Company.
But if the choice is armed mobs or choppy waters, many New Yorkers may reach for a paddle.
Deliverance From Above

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, many cubicle dwellers have been haunted by fears of being stuck in a skyscraper when disaster strikes.
In fact, tragic images from the World Trade Center inspired a micro-industry of high-rise-escape options.
There are now escape chutes (basically, giant collapsible fabric tubes for shinnying down) and small parachutes.
Photo

The SOS Parachute (about $2,400) is compact enough to store in a cubicle, opens in about two seconds and is designed to work for the 11th floor and higher.
Granted, the parachute is exactly not 82nd Airborne-grade, and a 200-pound man might find the landing a little rough.
You may twist an ankle, said Nicolas Havett, a company executive.
But in a situation serious enough to warrant a parachute, thats a deal that many would take.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

9. Who Are You Calling Rocket Man?
Photo

They were a science-fiction fantasy in the Bond movie Thunderball, a space-age gag in Gilligans Island.
But a half-century later, jet packs actually exist.
A California company called JetPack Aviation unveiled a functioning turbojet version two years ago, capable of staying aloft for 10 minutes, traveling at speeds up to 100 miles per hour.
Current models are available only to the military, but David Mayman, the companys founder, said he plans to introduce a commercial version within 18 months.
Hard-core doomers need not drain their airplane-liquor-bottle stash to envision the potential: Imagine New York after, say, an electromagnetic pulse attack that wipes out the power grid (like the kind North Korea recently threatened).
The bridges and streets resemble a scene from the old John Carpenter movie Escape From New York, but the privileged few can soar across the Hudson to safety (or at least New Jersey).
From the time you push the button, you could be in the air in less than 30 seconds, Mr. Mayman said.
Sure, there is the cost  about $250,000, which the company is hoping to bring down to the price of a luxury car.
For now, just think of it as the survivalists Maybach.
No Place Like Dome

Photo

Sandy was not the first hurricane to devastate entire sections of New York.
In 1893, a hurricane blew through the city with such force that it wiped an entire island  Hog Island, a glittering resort near the Rockaways  off the map.
In the event of a megadisaster that leaves parts of the city uninhabitable, survivors might require cheap, stormproof shelter to start a new life.
In the best of times, prefabricated dome shelters receive high marks from environmentalists and penny pinchers alike because of their low cost and minimal environmental impact.
A company called Intershelter sells igloo-shape pleasure domes that call to mind Luke Skywalkers old pad on Tatooine, but cost only $12,000 for one big enough to include a kitchen; it can be thrown together in a few hours, to make an instant hunting or fishing lodge.
But in the worst of times, this dome, built to sustain hurricane strength winds or earthquakes, makes great relief housing for disaster victims and, in theory, would make great bug-out bunkers for urbanites looking to build a survivalist compound on the fly.
The dome houses are so rugged, according the companys founder, Don Kubley, you could buy one today and your grandkids will be playing in it.
One can only hope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Should disaster not strike?
They make a great man cave or backyard cabana.
Pets or Meat

In the event of a breakdown of the food supply that leaves the shelves of Fairway bare and Le Coucou a ghost town on a Saturday night, you will still have to eat.
Often.
That is why many survivalists are placing their hopes of sustenance in rabbit, a high-protein, low-fat meat that is also being embraced as the new chicken by sustainable food types including Michael Pollan.
Raising meat rabbits is one of the most space-efficient means of growing livestock for meat, according to the site Survivalist 101.
By livestock standards, rabbits are relatively clean and quiet, too.
They can survive on table-scrap vegetables or even grass, and as a bonus, yield valuable fur for improvised winter clothing.
And boy do they breed.
A doe can produce up to 50 kits a year, yielding 250 pounds of meat, according to researchers at the Penn State Extension.
Beyond Medieval Times

To master archery and broadsword combat; to learn to manufacture fabric, bread, ceramic cookware and wood furniture by hand; to perfect the preindustrial arts of iron craft and tanning: Yes, there are worse things to carry into a post-apocalyptic world than a membership card to the Society for Creative Anachronism.
In normal times, this international historical-re-enactment organization seems like little more than a harmless bunch of Renaissance Faire types playing dress up on weekends and celebrating the arts, skills and costumes of pre-17th-century Europe.
But should Armageddon arrive  say, in the form of a limited nuclear exchange, global pandemic or cyber mega-attack  these hobbies could mean your survival.
In other words, chivalry may not be dead after all.
The Final Frontier

There is bugging out, and then there is really bugging out.
In a scorched-earth scenario where even a jet pack is not enough to escape harms way, preppers with deep pockets and a taste for Arthur C. Clarke might consider the ultimate escape: launching their DNA into space.
Celestis, a company specializing in memorial spaceflights (sending cremated remains into space), recently introduced genetic spaceflight.
For $12,500, for example, the cosmologically minded can send their DNA (a mouth swab or hair sample) into space on a true mission of exploration, aboard a spacecraft on a permanent celestial journey well beyond the moon.
Who knows  some ultra-intelligent alien being may discover it in the future, and use your genetic code to reanimate a race of humans on a distant planet.
Lets just hope those humans dont choose to blow themselves up.
The shock was about to deepen.
The Ahsanis privately held company, Unaoil, a go-to agent for multinationals operating in the biggest oil patches on earth, would soon become the target of investigations on three continents.
The authorities in Britain, the United States and Australia are examining whether the family paid bribes in resource-rich countries, like Iraq and Libya, on behalf of a long list of companies.
Multinationals that vie for contracts in challenging markets have been quietly hiring middlemen for decades, seeking help to navigate countries where they dont know the folkways or politics.
It is one of the oil industrys most enduring but invisible roles.
Many of these middlemen stay on the right side of the law, offering advice and connections.
But others cross the line.
They grease the palms of officials and local managers, and they put a buffer between the payoff and the client, offering plausible deniability if the authorities catch on.
For Western corporations, such payments and other improprieties can run afoul of corruption laws and can lead to huge fines and, in some cases, prison terms.
In 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice collected more than $2 billion in fines from 26 companies that settled charges that they had violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Ahsanis have denied all charges, with vehemence and an armada of lawyers.
They say that they had an advisory division, but that work relied on cultivated relationships and hard-won knowledge, not graft.
They also oversaw a variety of joint ventures, they say, and at one point employed 1,400 laborers in countries like Iraq and Kazakhstan, working on a variety of engineering and construction projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the Ahsanis seek to clear their name, they face some thorny evidence  their own words.
The day after the raid in March 2016, a newspaper in Australia, The Age, published a multipart expos based largely on the contents of a Unaoil hard drive stuffed with emails, records and receipts.
The paper called Unaoil the company that bribed the world.
In these documents, the Ahsanis come across as cautious players in a treacherous game.
The family and employees communicate with code words and nicknames.
When an underling, strategizing about an Iraqi oil official, takes a blunt approach  The best medicine for a calm life is a dose of George Washington  he is rebuked.
The way you write your emails may give rise to questions, Saman Ahsani replied.
Photo

The hard drive itself, which was sent to The Age by an unidentified source, is shrouded in intrigue.
Lawyers for the Ahsanis say it was used in an extortion attempt in the months before the raid.
Send me $5 million, wrote a blackmailer who asked to be called Komrade, or all these documents will wind up on the internet.
But the provenance of the hard drive has not slowed the authorities.
Since its contents were published, the British authorities have begun a number of investigations into former Unaoil clients.
One of them is Petrofac, a British oil field services company, which suspended its chief operating officer in May after he and the chief executive were arrested, questioned and then released by the Serious Fraud Office.
Petrofac later released a statement that said it had taken a number of actions that signal the boards determination to cooperate fully with the S.F.O.
Experts say that in the short term, prosecutors hope that companies will sign settlements and that some executives will go to prison.
Longer term, said Andrew Spalding, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law and senior editor of a blog about foreign corrupt practices, their hope is that this case changes the cost-benefit analysis of any company that thinks it needs to engage in bribery to compete.
A Toxic Brand

A soft-spoken 43-year-old with courtly manners and an Oxford education, Saman Ahsani is the family diplomat.
When he, his brother and his father decided that they were tired of being portrayed in the media as high-end grifters, Mr. Ahsani was the emissary to The New York Times, in the first sit-down interview given by any of the principals since the raid.
His lawyers, quite sensibly, asked him to avoid legal issues.
But he was eager to describe the familys business history and the personal toll the case has taken.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our reputation has been shredded, he said, sitting on a Louis XVI-style sofa in his Monaco apartment with a striking view of the ocean.
Within 24 hours, we became pariahs.
A toxic brand, overnight.
The publication of Cyrus Ahsanis sometimes fratboyish musings, and the investigation, sent him into a deep depression that lasted for months, his brother said.
Their fathers trouble with heart palpitations has worsened, along with some memory loss.
Its been incredibly frustrating for him, Mr. Ahsani said.
Itd be tough for anyone, especially when you think this is all completely unjustified.
For much of a 90-minute interview, he described Unaoils work for an array of companies, including BP and Shell, handling jobs like on-site inspections and equipment maintenance.
To buttress his account, he handed over a color brochure with photographs and descriptions of projects, all of them in Iraq.
One project was installing new interface facilities in the West Qurna oil field on behalf of the Basrah Gas Company.
Photo

Were portrayed as this brass-plate money-laundering operation, Mr. Ahsani said.
With just a few phone calls, you can see this is a company that, year in, year out, is delivering projects for large companies.
A number of former clients declined to discuss Unaoil.
Neither BP nor Shell would comment, and emails to the Basrah Gas Company were not returned.
The batch of leaked documents, by contrast, is like an informant who wont shut up.
An excerpt of about 100 pages was provided to The Times by The Age.
Many transactions are detailed, including $400,000 given to an Iranian expatriate with connections to Azerbaijans oil minister, and 2.75 million euros given to a businessman tight with the Syrian regime.
Without context and a basic grasp of in-house terminology, some sentences read like nonsense.
When a Unaoil manager wants to boast to a potential American client about how much sway the company has with key players in Kazakhstan, he writes about the need to demonstrate that we own the Spaghetti House and have a lease on the Shashlik takeaway.
But the exchange is in the midst of discussion that is not about food.
Its about an Italian oil company (Spaghetti House) with strong links to Kazakh oil officials (Shashlik, a popular dish in Kazakhstan).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a recent email, Mr. Ahsani said he was unable to comment on the specifics of the internal documents because anything he says may hinder an eventual defense.
He added, There is a great deal we would like to say.
The Ahsanis have never said the cache of documents is not authentic.
What the documents show is that the Ahsanis operate in a realm that is both competitive and exasperating.
The politicians they deal with are high maintenance  cranky, greedy and unreliable.
The Ahsanis and colleagues describe doling out cash for flights, five-star hotels, clothing, even CDs and perfume.
An Iraqi heavy hitter gets two shopping sprees and English lessons for his son.
There are indignities, too.
When an oil executive with ties to Kazakhstans president was invited to the wedding of the Ahsanis other brother, Sassan, an assistant wrote to say a pop-star friend would attend instead.
His name is Yensepov, the assistant emailed in a document dated May 2006.
Can you book a single room for him in the same hotel, please?
Saman Ahsani forwarded the email to his brother and father, adding: Is he joking?
Changing Circumstances

The Ahsanis have resided for years in Monaco, a principality of 500 impeccably maintained acres of luxury shopping and manicured streets  like a Worlds Fair in which the theme is Money, or what youd expect if Rodeo Drive were a country.
Tourists cluster around the elegant Casino de Monte-Carlo and gawk at Lamborghinis and Bentleys in steady orbit on an adjacent street.
Roughly 40,000 people call this place home, lured by some combination of fine weather, price-on-request real estate and favorable tax treatment.
Photo

The social scene is tightly knit, and the Ahsanis were once prominent members of it.
Cyrus Ahsani was treasurer of the Monaco Ambassadors Club, an elite group of executives, diplomats and celebrities that claims Prince Albert II as honorary president.
The Ahsanis party-going days are behind them.
Bankers and accountants, once so eager to help, now shun the family.
Even small decisions must first be run by professionals.
Your life suddenly becomes: Are the lawyers going to approve this, are they going to approve that?
Saman Ahsani said.
Every day there are not one or two fires.
There are 15 fires.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The familys current circumstances  both its riches and its unwanted notoriety  are a world away from its origins.
Ata Ahsani grew up in a modest home in an ancient town in the south of Iran, the son of a carpet designer.
Scholarships sent him to universities in both England and the United States, but he returned to work for years at Western oil companies in Iran.
After the revolution in 1978, he moved to London and started all over in the chemical trade.
More than a decade later, he founded Unaoil in 1991.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Saman Ahsani said that over the years the company had spent millions building repair and service centers in Algeria, Azerbaijan and various countries in the Middle East, to fix or upgrade equipment like pumps and compressors.
The British authorities seem to believe that these enterprises were largely a cover.
The Serious Fraud Office stated in a court filing last year that it was unpersuaded that Unaoil conducts any lawful business.
That offends the Ahsanis.
To rebut the charge, they set up an interview with a former oil field manager, who agreed to talk on the phone if he was not named.
It was hard enough, this former senior vice president said, to find a new job.
His division had 230 people in Iraq, doing pump maintenance and site inspections, he said over the course of a half-hour discussion.
The story was detailed, and it ended with a grim description of laying off his entire crew soon after the raid of the Ahsanis homes.
But he acknowledged that he knew nothing about the advisory division of the company, where, the British authorities indicate, the bribery is alleged to have taken place.
Lindsey Mitchell, on the other hand, knew that division well.
He worked there in 2009.
A 30-year veteran of the oil industry, Mr. Mitchell was hired by Unaoil because, he said in a recent phone interview, the Ahsanis were impressed by his connections to the regime of Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya.
The Ahsanis are likable guys, said Mr. Mitchell, who moved with his wife to Monaco for the job.
Very welcoming.
Nine months after he started, Mr. Mitchell flew to Tripoli to secure a $45 million environmental cleanup contract.
When he later reported to the Ahsanis, via Skype, that a manager at Waha Oil Company, a subsidiary of Libyas state-owned oil business, had demanded a payoff, the family did not demur, Mr. Mitchell recalled.
Soon, he said, an Ahsani relative, who ran Unaoils office in Tripoli, handed him an envelope that contained at least $10,000.
Mr. Mitchell said he had delivered the envelope, then started to feel awful.
He had never bribed anyone in his life.
I took a hard look at what Id done, he said.
Ive got kids, and I thought if they knew what just happened, they would lose all respect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The day after the envelope drop, Mr. Mitchell said, he emailed a resignation letter to the Ahsanis.
When he read the article in The Age, he contacted the lead reporter and had a request: Tell the authorities in the United States and Britain how to get in touch.
Photo

I knew my name was all over those documents, Mr. Mitchell said.
So I figured I wouldnt wait for them to come find me.
He has since debriefed the British authorities at a meeting in Vienna and the Federal Bureau of Investigation at a hotel near the airport in Calgary, Alberta.
Without asking for immunity, he described everything he knew.
Whether he is currently in legal jeopardy is unclear.
Asked about Mr. Mitchell, a lawyer for the Ahsanis, Roger Burlingame, said, We cannot comment at this stage, but we look forward to addressing Mr. Mitchells claims at the appropriate time.
Soul of a Spy Novelist

The identity of the person who leaked documents about Unaoil to The Age has not been made public.
But this much is obvious: Whoever it was has the soul of a spy novelist.
Before sending anything, the source asked the paper to demonstrate its commitment by placing an ad in a French magazine, Le Figaro, that included the words Monte Christo.
A reporter, Nick McKenzie, followed those instructions, posting a for-sale notice for a nonexistent home in Sydney, Australia.
The source, soon nicknamed Le Figaro, ultimately provided hundreds of thousands of documents.
In the hopes of maximizing publicity about the case, The Age shared the tranche with its media partner The Huffington Post, which published its own articles the same day as The Age.
Le Figaro also wanted the documents shared with law enforcement in Australia.
Mr. McKenzie said a heads-up had been given to officials about the date when The Age and The Huffington Post would publish, which helps explains the one-two timing of the raid and the exposs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Ahsanis knew that a public-relations nightmare could be imminent.
In December 2015, the family says, the company had been contacted by someone identified as Komrade, whom we will assume is male, for the sake of a pronoun.
Documents provided to The Times by a publicist for the Ahsanis show that Komrade claimed to have spent $50,000 for a Unaoil hard drive sold by a hacker.
For $5 million in Bitcoin, Komrade offered to destroy the lot.
If he wasnt paid in three days, everything would be sent to newspapers and WikiLeaks.
Some people very stupid, emotion get in the way, Komrade wrote, using what was either Russian-accented prose or an English speakers attempt to sound Russian.
Ignore my request and your family business comes to an end.
A cybersecurity firm, Guidepost Solutions, advised the Ahsanis to pay a fraction of the demanded ransom to keep talks going and perhaps reel Komrade in.
A tense, four-month negotiation ensued.
Saman Ahsani again served as diplomat, according to the documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist.
We are in the process of sending the initial payment, he wrote to Komrade in late December, on the verge of sending $50,000.
This is done as a sign of good faith and keeps to our word.
Komrade was ultimately sent an additional $100,000, which was far short of expectations.
The documents provided by the Ahsanis publicist show him growing more irritated and profane.
His final words arrived on March 25: Is time now for you feel some pain.
Four days later, the police in Monaco came knocking.
Are Le Figaro and Komrade the same person, an extortionist masquerading as a whistle-blower, or perhaps a whistle-blower who dabbles in extortion?
Lawyers for the Ahsanis think the answer is yes, and they have tried to turn the extortion plot into a media ethics matter, suggesting that The Age was relying on information used to commit blackmail.
Editors at The Age, which is owned by Fairfax Media, counter that the Ahsanis never mentioned blackmail when contacted with prepublication questions.
They add that Le Figaro did not ask for money, nor did anyone else reached by reporters after they started digging into the story.
These additional sources include former employees of Unaoil, according to Mr. McKenzie.
We have no evidence that our sources were involved in extortion attempts, and any alleged extortion bid has nothing to do with Fairfax Media, Alex Lavelle, editor of The Age, said in an email.
We maintain our stories on Unaoil are true, in the public interest and unimpeachable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the Serious Fraud Office, the stakes in the Unaoil case are high.
It has struggled for respect in the realm of corporate prosecutions and has badly lagged behind the Department of Justice in foreign corruption actions.
A spokesman for the office noted an in email that the Bribery Act, the countrys answer to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, didnt go into effect until 2011.
We have secured successful outcomes in all cases brought under the law, said the spokesman, Adam Lilley.
For the Ahsanis, the stakes are far higher.
Monaco is a signatory to the European Convention on Extradition, which means the family is shadowed by the possibility that the local police may one day return, and this time hand the Ahsanis over to the British authorities, who could seek prison sentences.
The Ahsanis now have little choice but to wind down what is left of the company, confer with attorneys and wait.
Lawyers in the white-collar field say that if charges are ultimately filed against the family, a case will not be easy for the government to win.
Following the money in these investigations is time consuming and difficult, and internal emails alone are hardly proof of a crime.
Also, it would be hugely difficult to obtain witnesses in countries like Iraq.
But Saman Ahsani said some of his neighbors had already come up with a verdict of their own.
There are certain individuals, you can see written on their face, while you are talking, at best a presumption of guilt, he said.
At worst, a little bit of a smirk, like they are getting enjoyment out of the misery of others.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
But bookmakers, backed by other researchers, counter that there is no clear evidence that the machine is any more addictive than other kinds of gambling  like the online casino, a product that is restricted in the United States but legal in Britain.
They warn that banning the machines, which are found only in British betting shops and provide more than half their profits, would lead to the loss of thousands of jobs.
For campaigners, a set of statistics published in August by the Gambling Commission, which regulates the British gambling industry, highlighted the urgency of the matter: It suggested that the number of British problem gamblers, or people whose lives are damaged by their gambling, had risen by almost 50 percent between 2012 and 2015, from 280,000 to 430,000.
The bookmakers, though, pointed to a line in the report that said the rate of problem gambling had remained statistically stable, because both figures are small compared with the British population as a whole.
Photo

The history of fixed odds betting terminals is under less dispute.
They were introduced into British betting shops in 2001, at a time when the government of Tony Blair, then the prime minister, was accelerating the gambling industrys transformation, as the academic David Runciman has argued, from one that was permitted only to meet demand into one that was allowed to stimulate it.
Today, there are roughly 33,000 such machines spread across Britains 9,000 betting shops.
They collectively provided a profit of more than 1.8 billion last year, far more than those outlets made from bets on horse races, dog races and soccer matches combined.
Roughly half of the terminals are supplied by a subsidiary of a company headed by the American businessman Ronald Perelman, who is friends with President Trump.
The configuration of the machines themselves is unique to Britain, partly because their settings are illegal in some other countries.
The machines allow users to place bets of up to 100, once every 20 seconds, on computerized casino games such as roulette.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While researchers are divided on the subject, many gambling addicts say that the machines singular features make them uniquely addictive and uniquely harmful, both accelerating the rate of loss and decreasing the waiting time between bets.
Its a gamblers dream, said Jason Haddigan, a former addict who wrote about his decades-long addiction in a new book, How and Why I Conned the Bookies.
You get the buzz straightaway and you get hooked straightaway.
Bookmakers dispute these claims.
There is no link between gaming machines in betting shops and problem gambling, said Gary Follis, a spokesman for the Association for British Bookmakers, citing the Gambling Commissions recent report, which suggested that problem gamblers tend to use several different gambling products.
Bookmakers also argue that the campaign against fixed odds betting terminals is backed by people who make money from other kinds of gambling, and say that banning the machines would force many shops to close, leading to job losses.
That argument strikes campaigners as myopic, given the social damage they say the machines are already causing to some of Britains poorest communities.
Figures from the Campaign for Fairer Gambling suggest that there are twice as many such terminals in the countrys 55 most deprived areas as there are in the 115 richest districts (which contain the same population), and more than double the losses.
Socially, its decimating communities, said Carolyn Harris, a Labour Party lawmaker who heads a parliamentary group that discusses the machines.
The less money you put in these machines, the more disposable income people will have to put into other businesses, she said, adding that banning them would boost the economy and create employment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Research commissioned by the Campaign for Fairer Gambling in 2015 suggested that for every 5,000 jobs that might be created by the machines, a further 25,000 jobs would be lost.
Campaigners want to ban the terminals  or at the very least to lower the maximum bet to 2.
But the betting industry has so far fought such a successful countercampaign that Parliament has yet to add any new restrictions.
(It emerged this month that members of Parliament had accepted a greater amount of gifts and hospitality from Ladbrokes Coral, Britains biggest betting company, than from any other source in the past year.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Part of the problem facing Parliament is that different investigations into the machines addictiveness have drawn different conclusions, making it easy for bookmakers to argue that there is not enough evidence to support changing the law.
A 2007 survey by the National Center for Social Research showing that the machines were the most common cause of gambling addiction in Britain was contradicted by other surveys the organization conducted in 2010 and 2012.
Most controversially, the waters were also muddied by a 2014 report commissioned by GambleAware, Britains largest gambling addiction charity, that said more research was needed to discern a causal link between gambling machines and gambling addiction.
Critics of the gambling industry say these discrepancies have been subtly encouraged by the industry itself.
Photo

After interviewing 67 stakeholders in the British gambling industry, Rebecca Cassidy, a professor at Goldsmiths, University of London, concluded that academic research into gambling was a second-rate field because of the proliferation of industry-financed research projects.
To comply with British law, the countrys bookmakers must voluntarily donate money each year for research into and treatment of problem gambling.
But most do this solely through GambleAware, which funded the controversial 2014 research into fixed odds betting terminals.
As a result, GambleAware is now the largest single source of financing for British gambling research, while simultaneously attracting claims that it is too close to the companies it is supposed to be examining impartially.
The Charity Commission, which regulates British charities, has ruled that there is no conflict of interest to the way that GambleAware commissions research.
The charity itself also says that it operates independently of the industry, and works to research guidelines set by another regulatory body.
Theres no question of money coming in with strings attached, Iain Corby, GambleAwares deputy chief executive, said in an interview, adding later, We are the good guys.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the charity has attracted criticism because until recently, roughly half of its trustees were representatives of the gambling industry.
The government is due to release a long-awaited review of fixed odds betting terminals in October, and campaigners hope it will recommend increased restrictions on their use.
Yet others, including Mr. Franklin, say the government needs to reform not just machine gambling, but also the industry as a whole.
The controversial machines are just one part of a massive problem, he said.
One part of the cradle-to-grave electronic gambling extraction business that is causing untold unhappiness in this country.
When does rhetorical bombast turn into a real bomb?
Senator Benjamin Cardin of Maryland, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in an essay for Foreign Policy magazine.
The presidents inflammatory and irresponsible threat does not keep America or our Asian allies safe.
Other presidents have responded viscerally to North Korean leaders but not so publicly.
Mr. Bush once told senators that Mr. Kims father and predecessor, Kim Jong Il, was a pygmy who acted like a spoiled child at the dinner table.
But he did that in private.
President Barack Obama made a point of ignoring Mr. Kim and his son.
Advisers in recent weeks have presented Mr. Trump with several pre-emption options that included cyberattacks against military or dual-use facilities, according to senior officials.
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis noted that the United States had not attempted to destroy the unarmed missiles that have been tested so far, because they were not on track to hit American territory, or allies like Japan.
So far, the president has declined to explicitly lay out a red line that, if crossed, would provoke some sort of action.
One senior official said that acting to prevent an atmospheric test, which would risk radiation spreading in the winds toward populated areas, could well result in a very different decision.
Such an operation would be highly risky even if it would be far more surgical than Mr. Trumps threat this week to totally destroy North Korea if forced to defend the United States or its allies.
Should the United States find that North Korea was loading a nuclear warhead onto an intercontinental ballistic missile, the choices would be limited, according to officials who have participated over the years in the Pentagons secret war games designed to anticipate various forms of a crisis on the Korean Peninsula.
For the moment, despite his bellicose language, Mr. Trump has chosen the path of economic pressure, signing a new order on Thursday intended to cut North Korea off from the international banking system with measures that, in some ways, went significantly beyond previous efforts to punish outlier nations like Iran.
The White House hopes that further isolating North Korea will eventually force Mr. Kim to come to the negotiating table.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Conservatives who bristled at what they considered Mr. Obamas weak approach offered few complaints about the presidents taunting escalation, arguing that Mr. Kim was a bully and the best way to stand up to a bully was to match him, rhetorical blow for rhetorical blow.
Some urged Mr. Trump to even go beyond that, given that North Korea now has a significant nuclear arsenal with missiles that could even strike the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The question is, do you wait for one of those?
Or, two?
Representative Duncan Hunter, a California Republican, said in a radio interview Thursday.
Do you preemptively strike them?
And thats what the president has to wrestle with.
I would preemptively strike them.
You could call it declaring war, call it whatever you want.
John Hannah, who served as national security adviser to former Vice President Dick Cheney, said it was hard to imagine any previous president getting into the rhetorical muck with the likes of Mr. Kim.
But he noted that all of those predecessors failed miserably to resolve the North Korean nuclear threat, their measured tones doing nothing to stop a dictator from developing a devastating arsenal.
Is it a high risk strategy?
Mr. Hannah, now senior counselor at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, said of Mr. Trumps approach.
For sure.
Is it worth trying, in light of the historical record of dismal U.S. failure to stop the North Korean program?
Perhaps.
That question was part of the discussion at the United Nations General Assembly on Friday as world leaders debated the wisdom of Mr. Trump vs. Mr. Kim.
Australia, a close American ally, said the fault lies with North Korea.
The security of millions of people is at risk as a result of North Koreas refusal to abide by international laws and norms, Julie Bishop, the countrys foreign minister, told the world body.
But Cuba, the longtime American antagonist, blamed Mr. Trump for raising the temperature.
We reject the threat to totally destroy the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, home to 25 million human beings, said its foreign minister, Eduardo Rodrguez Parrilla.
War is not an option in the Korean Peninsula.
Hitting an unarmed missile on the launching pad  or on a mobile missile launcher  would risk starting a conflict that the North could quickly escalate, potentially with a conventional attack on Seoul, the capital of South Korea.
But hitting a nuclear-armed missile could trigger exactly the nuclear detonation that the United States would be trying to prevent, depending on any safety mechanisms that the North has built into its weapons to keep them from accidentally detonating if they suffered a sharp shock.
Intercepting a warhead using missile defenses runs other dangers, White House officials have been told.
If the American antimissile systems missed  against a single warhead, which should be the simplest target  it would undercut confidence in an infrastructure the United States has spent $300 billion to build over the past four decades.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If a hit succeeded, it could still spread nuclear material below  less of an issue over the water, but a serious problem if the interception occurred over land.
In recent days, administration officials have sought to emphasize that they do believe there are viable military options despite deep doubts by many national security veterans  if for no other reason that it carries no deterrent value if North Korea concludes that the United States would never try.
There are a lot of military options that can be done, Nikki R. Haley, the American ambassador to the United Nations, told reporters on Thursday.
And so the president is not going to spell out specifically what hes going to do, when hes going to do it, or where hes going to do it.
But there are many options that hes discussed with his national security team that, should North Korea do anything irresponsible or reckless, that he has to choose from.
Text posted with the video on YouTube said, Russia is waging war on the U.S.  Morgan Freeman explains why we need to pay attention before its too late.
Mr. Freeman looks at the camera and intones: We have been attacked.
We are at war.
In the video, Mr. Freeman accuses Mr. Putin, the Russian president, of secretly using cyberwarfare around the world like the true K.G.B.
spy he is.
The Russians have used propaganda and false information to undermine world democracies and to sow distrust of their news media, their political processes and even their neighbors, Mr. Freeman continues, often pausing for dramatic effect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth, he says.
Then, taking a seat behind a desk, Mr. Freeman outlines remarks that he says President Trump ought to make.
Mr. Freeman is no stranger to presidential politics  at least of the fictional kind.
In the 2013 movie Olympus Has Fallen, he played a speaker of the House who becomes the acting president after the president and vice president are taken hostage during an attack on the White House.
But Mr. Freemans dabbling in real-world politics provoked sharply worded criticisms from Russian officials and news outlets.
The BBC reported that the Rossiya 24 news channel had assembled psychiatrists who attributed his comments to a Messianic complex resulting from playing God in several films.
Vadim Zavodchenkov, a weatherman for the channel, said Mr. Freeman was ill because of overwork and marijuana use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Putins press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the accusations in the video were groundless and of an exclusively emotional character, the BBC reported.
Representatives for Mr. Freeman did not respond to emails on Friday evening.
Rob Reiner, the actor and producer, announced the creation of the Committee to Investigate Russia this week on Twitter.
He described it as trying to help Americans recognize and understand the gravity of Russias continuing attacks on our democracy.
Congressional committees are investigating, among other things, the Russian governments involvement in the election through an extensive social media campaign, targeted online ads and other methods.
Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, is also investigating connections between Russia and Mr. Trump and his associates, including whether they conspired to influence the election.
On Twitter on Friday, Mr. Trump called the investigations a hoax and said the Fake News Media wielded the greatest influence by supporting the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Photo

Mohammed Mahdi Akef, a former leader of Egypts outlawed Muslim Brotherhood who had been detained since 2013, died on Friday in Cairo.
He was 89.
Talaat Fahmy, a Brotherhood spokesman, said the cause was complications of cancer and other health issues.
He said that Mr. Akefs family had requested that he be released from custody because of his health, but that the request was declined by an Egyptian court.
Mr. Akef, who headed the Muslim Brotherhood from 2004 to 2010, was among hundreds of members arrested after the Egyptian militarys 2013 ouster of President Mohammed Morsi, a member of the Brotherhood.
Mr. Akef was initially convicted on charges of inciting violence and disturbing general security and was sentenced to life imprisonment.
The verdict was overturned on appeal, and he was facing a retrial.
It is not clear North Korea has that capability yet, said Siegfried S. Hecker, the former director of Los Alamos National Laboratory and the nuclear weapons expert the North Koreans let in to see their uranium enrichment plants years ago, when they wanted to make clear to the Obama administration that their atomic weapons program was moving ahead, unimpeded by sanctions.
Besides, said Dr. Hecker, now a professor at Stanford University, a live missile test  one loaded with an H-bomb  poses enormous risk.
He recalled that when the United States performed such tests in the early days of the Cold War, one blew up on the launchpad and one had to be destroyed right after launch, creating significant radioactive contamination.
The North Koreans have studied this history, too, according to current and former American intelligence officials.
But the appeal of an atmospheric test is obvious: It would create a sense of fear that an explosion deep inside a tunnel in North Korea does not.
The underground tests are detected on a Richter scale; an atmospheric test, like the kind the United States conducted at Bikini Atoll starting in 1948, creates a terrifying mushroom cloud.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The largest of those, a 1954 test code-named Castle Bravo, turned out to be roughly three times larger than American bomb designers anticipated.
They had made a mathematical miscalculation about the power of one of the nuclear fuels contained in the weapon, and the explosion spread radioactive material across the globe.
Ultimately, Castle Bravo helped fuel the call for a ban on atmospheric tests.
No one knows what kind of test the North Koreans have in mind; the countrys foreign minister, Ri Yong Ho, did not specify when he raised the possibility when talking to reporters at the United Nations on Thursday.
This could probably mean the strongest hydrogen bomb test over the Pacific Ocean, he said.
Regarding which measures to take, I dont really know since it is what Kim Jong-un does.
But the presumption is that if Mr. Kim decided to go ahead, the North would attempt to conduct the test by firing it on a missile, presumably to an empty spot in the Pacific.
The goal would be to demonstrate that it had solved all the technological issues involved in delivering a nuclear weapon to an American city.
But that form of testing  putting a live weapon on a missile  is particularly risky.
Other countries have blanched at the potential for disaster, Dr. Hecker noted, including the Chinese, who conducted one missile launch with a live nuclear weapon in the warhead.
It worked as planned, he said, but the Chinese considered the risks unacceptable and never tried it again.
In the hands of the North Koreans, some say, it would be even riskier.
This would be a regional nightmare for East Asia, said Heather Conley, a former senior State Department official, now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
It is possible the threat will never come to fruition.
Detonating a weapon inside a missile warhead, or even from a ship or barge, would be far more difficult for the North than setting one off inside a mountain, where engineers have months to wire up the weapon, and no time pressure.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It would require what experts call a weaponized device that could survive shocks, stresses and, if launched from a missile, the heat of re-entry into the atmosphere, something North Korea has never demonstrated it can handle.
The DPRK would be taking a big risk  missile tests fail, said Philip E. Coyle III, a nuclear scientist and former head of the Pentagons weapons testing.
The live nuclear warhead could come down on a neighboring country, or if the missile blew up on the launchpad  as has been known to happen  set off the nuclear warhead in North Korea.
The transportation risks would be enormous, including the chance of an accidental detonation before the nuclear device reached the target zone.
And while the worlds best missiles fail roughly once in every 100 flights, the failure rate for the Norths missiles is much higher.
Last year, one type of missile failed seven out of eight times, perhaps in part because it had been targeted by a series of cyber attacks ordered by President Barack Obama.
Since then, the North has ceased testing that type of missile and been more successful with others.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And even if one of the Norths missiles succeeded in lofting a nuclear weapon, the bigger challenge would be bringing it back down during the fiery re-entry.
The heat, pressures and forces of deceleration are enormous.
To date, evidence from the Norths test launches suggests it is still in the beginning stages of learning how to build a survivable warhead.
It would be far easier for the North to entrust a nuclear weapon to a plane or a boat.
But it has few with the long-range capability for the job, and the chances that the United States or its allies would detect it in transit are considerable.
It would also break a taboo.
It has been 37 years since any nation tested a nuclear weapon in the planets atmosphere.
And given what is now known about the effects that radioactive fallout from such tests has on human health and the environment, one now would only intensify the international opprobrium Mr. Kim already faces.
According to one estimate by a physicians group opposed to nuclear weapons, 2.4 million people could die from cancer caused by the radioactivity from the more than 2,000 known tests that have already taken place.
The last atmospheric test took place on Oct. 16, 1980, when China fired what experts believed to be a nuclear-tipped ballistic missiles into a desert salt flat along what was once the Silk Road, more than 1,300 miles west of Beijing.
The United States attempted a missile-launched nuclear test so only once  on May 6, 1962  during a frenzy of Cold War tests.
A submerged submarine, the Ethan Allen, fired a Polaris A-2 missile in the direction of Christmas Island in the Indian Ocean.
After traveling more than 1,200 miles, its warhead exploded at an altitude exceeding 10,000 feet.
That test helped spur negotiations that ultimately led to a treaty banning tests in the atmosphere, outer space or underwater.
It was in signed in 1963 by the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain.
In 1996, a far broader agreement to ban all nuclear testing, the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, was adopted at the United Nations and has been ratified by 166 states.
The United States, China and North Korea are among the holdouts, along with Egypt, India, Israel, Iran and Pakistan.
An effort by the Clinton administration to ratify the treaty failed; Mr. Obama promised to resubmit it for ratification but never did, fearing a second defeat.
The United States and China have adhered to its restrictions, even if neither has ratified it.
The changes could take effect on Sunday, after the conclusion of a policy review that was part of the original ban.
It looked at whether other countries were complying with security measures that could prevent terrorists from entering the U.S.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its not clear which countries would be targeted under the new restrictions or exactly how many would be affected.
The changes could have a big impact on the pending Supreme Court review of the ban.
Above, a scene from Dulles International Airport in Virginia in June.
_____

Photo

3.
Mentally deranged U.S. dotard.
That was Kim Jong-un in an unprecedented personal statement, criticizing President Trump over his threat to annihilate North Korea.
Heres the full text.
The North Korean media carried photographs of Mr. Kim sitting in his office and reading from notes, but his voice was not broadcast.
Instead, a female announcer read the statement.
We delved into the etymology of dotard.
Mr. Trump, in turn, called Mr. Kim a madman.
_____

Photo

4.
Germany goes the polls on Sunday, and the vote is effectively a referendum on Chancellor Angela Merkel.
Shes widely expected to win, after the campaign of her main rival, Martin Schulz, fizzled out.
The story to watch is whether a far-right party makes big gains; one is poised to enter Parliament for the first time in 60 years.
Heres our comprehensive guide to the election, with links to our best recent coverage of Germany.
_____

Photo

5.
London revoked Ubers license, citing a lack of corporate responsibility and concerns about safety and security.
The company will be allowed to continue operating as it appeals the decision.
The city was one of Ubers biggest success stories outside the U.S.
But the company has also fought a heated battle with Londons black-cab drivers, who must pass a famously difficult test called The Knowledge.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

_____

Photo

6.
In other news from London, an 18-year-old was charged with attempted murder in last weeks train bombing.
Two other men remain in custody without charges.
The terror attack  the fifth in Britain this year  prompted a stampede and left more than 30 people wounded.
The authorities said the bomb, made with the banned explosive T.A.T.P., failed to explode properly and could have done much more damage if it had.
_____

Photo

7.
The earthquake has left many in Mexico Citys hippest neighborhoods questioning whether to stay.
Roma and Condesa were devastated in the 1985 earthquake, but eventually rebuilt and became the megacitys reigning axis of cool.
They were hit hard again this week (see above).
Mexico Citys central districts are uniquely vulnerable to earthquakes because they are built on an ancient lakebed.
_____

Photo

8.
A dam in northwestern Puerto Rico suffered structural damage on Friday, prompting evacuations of areas nearby in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria.
Nearly 70,000 people could be affected in case of a collapse at the Guajataca Dam, the Puerto Rican governor, Ricardo Rossell, said.
The hurricane continued on its destruction path, bringing heavy rain and storm surges to Turks and Caicos and moving toward the Bahamas.
It is forecast to weaken slightly over the weekend as it makes a northward turn over the Atlantic.
The death toll around the Caribbean was at least 27, and bankrupt Puerto Rico, above, faces a daunting effort to rebuild.
Heres how to help.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On todays episode of The Daily, we discuss the arguments made by Caribbean leaders at the U.N. this week.
They say that the recent storms have created a humanitarian crisis  and that humans are to blame.
_____

Photo

9.
This weeks Modern Love column is about doing the dishes.
And a lot more, of course.
Its about negotiating gender roles as a young couple, and how to reconcile one partners success with anothers struggles.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

_____

Photo

10.
Finally, two movies portraying powerful women hit theaters this weekend.
Our columnist Maureen Dowd talked to Judi Dench, the celebrated British actress, about Victoria & Abdul.
(Their champagne-fueled chat also covered sex, rap and tattoos.)
Ms. Dench, 82, portrays Queen Victoria as she grows close to a much younger servant.
Our critic called it wobbly and took issue with its portrayal of the queen as a progressive figure.
Above, Ms. Dench and her co-star, Ali Fazal.
The review was more positive for Battle of the Sexes about a 1973 tennis match between Billie Jean King, then a 29-year-old feminist symbol, and Bobby Riggs, an older champion and avowed sexist.
Emma Stone and Steve Carell star.
It was personal and it was political, our critic wrote.
It was also entertainment, which is where the movie really excels.
Have a great weekend.
_____

The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And dont miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to catch up on past briefings?
You can browse them here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What did you like?
What do you want to see here?
Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
They assassinated them in a foreign land, Shaza Barakat wrote on Facebook.
For 40 years her headlines occupied front pages.
She sought out criminals and exposed them.
And today, her name and Hallas name are on the front page.
The two women were vocal activists in the Syrian revolution, speaking truth to power, and raising awareness about the atrocities committed by the Assad regime, another relative, Suzanne Barakat, wrote on Facebook.
In a statement, the Syrian National Coalition said, The hand of terrorism and tyranny is the prime suspect in this heinous crime of assassination.
Social media posts on pro-government sites contained hateful comments about the Barakats.
But the Turkish newspaper Cumhuriyet published details that indicated a similarity to killings committed by the Islamic State.
The womens throats had been cut, and they had received a threat on social media 10 days earlier from someone speaking in a Tunisian dialect, the newspaper reported.
The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for four previous killings of Syrian journalists in Turkey.
A fifth has survived two attacks.
The elder Ms. Barakat had received threats in the days before her killing but had disregarded them, her brother, Maen Barakat, 56, said in a telephone interview.
Since threats by the regime have become a common thing, she didnt pay much attention to them, Mr. Barakat said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
No items were stolen from the apartment, which suggests that the crime was committed only to kill Orouba and Halla, he added.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His sister was a born activist, he said.
She dedicated her life to give voice to the voiceless, until the Syrian regime exiled her in the 80s, he said.
But still she continued to defend her rights and the rights of others.
She set up a media and advertising business in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, and after the Syrian uprising moved to Istanbul.
She came to Turkey to be closer to her country, hoping that once the war ends she would be able to return to her homeland, Mr. Barakat said.
Halla joined her mom in her fight against the Syrian regime, and became a loud voice in defending the rights of Syrians and documenting the crimes against them.
Halla Barakat was beautiful and lovely, smart and ambitious, and so kindhearted, said Jamal Mano, a Syrian journalist who worked for 10 months with her in Istanbul.
A Syrian refugee in Germany, Nour Sheikh Ibrahim, wept as he remembered the kindness the elder Ms. Barkat had shown him when he defected from the Syrian Army and escaped to Turkey.
She was everything in my life, she was like my aunt, Mr. Ibrahim said when reached by telephone.
She helped me a lot.
Jobless and penniless, he had appealed to Ms. Barakat for help and when she opened a sewing factory she offered him a job.
She used to help refugees, and the camps, he said.
She was very active.
She helped lot of Syrians with money, even those who didnt deserve it.
Later in Istanbul she gave him a place to stay.
They remained in touch, talking every few days, and he said Ms. Barakat had become depressed recently.
In the past few weeks Orouba was feeling so down, he said.
I asked her to leave Turkey but she said she couldnt.
She lacked a valid passport, he added.
I remember she used to receive a lot of threats on her phone, Mr. Ibrahim said.
Suzanne Barakat also recalled how, in a tragic twist of fate, three members of the extended family  her brother, Deah Barakat, and his wife and her sister, who were studying in the United States  were shot dead in Chapel Hill, N.C., in 2015 in a case that authorities investigated as a possible hate crime.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Numbness, she said on Facebook, describing her feelings about the familys latest deaths.
Confusion.
Shock.
Disbelief.
I cant think straight.
He said he had never bargained with his Western counterparts about the lifting of sanctions.
He also dismissed allegations of Russian meddling in the 2016 American presidential election to tilt the outcome in favor of Donald J. Trump instead of Hillary Clinton.
Even after a year of inquiries, Mr. Lavrov said, we did not see a single fact.
Mr. Lavrov said he had asked his American counterpart, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, for evidence of Russian meddling in the election and was told it was confidential.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Lavrov dismissed that contention as well.
You know I cannot believe that, he said.
Information is leaking all the time.
Especially in an investigation that involves so many people, he went on, it cannot be so that not a single fact is leaked.
It would have been leaked.
There are still large gaps between the Russian and American positions on a number of matters, from the question of what to do about Iran to how to handle the North Korean nuclear crisis.
On Iran, Mr. Lavrov said he agreed with European diplomats who this week rejected American demands to reopen the 2015 nuclear agreement.
The deal has been endorsed by the United Nations Security Council, Mr. Lavrov said, and if there are other concerns about Iran, such as its ballistic missiles program or its role in Syria, they should be addressed separately.
Bringing together apples and oranges would be wrong, especially in such a complicated issue as the Iran nuke deal, Mr. Lavrov said.
On North Korea, he said it was time to calm down the hotheads and consider offers of mediation, including one by Secretary General Antnio Guterres of the United Nations.
Mr. Lavrov advocated what he called a reasonable approach to resolving the standoff, instead of kindergarten fights between children.
Doctors say an Egyptian once known as the world's heaviest woman has died in a hospital in the United Arab Emirates.
She was 37.
Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi said that Eman Abdul Atti died at 4:35 a.m. on Monday.
Doctors described her death as due to complications from her weight, including heart disease and kidney dysfunction.
The hospital said: "Our prayers and heartfelt condolences go out to her family."
At one point, Abdul Atti reportedly weighed around 500 kilograms (1,100 pounds).
Doctors blamed her weight on a thyroid condition.
Abdul Atti arrived in the UAE in May, receiving care from a team of 20 doctors at Burjeel Hospital.
She earlier received medical treatment in India and underwent surgery that saw her lose some 300 kilograms (660 pounds).
Large amounts of federal aid began moving into Puerto Rico on Saturday, welcomed by local officials who praised the Trump administration's response but called for the emergency loosening of rules long blamed for condemning the U.S. territory to second-class status.
In northwest Puerto Rico, people began returning to their homes after a spillway eased pressure on a dam that cracked after more than a foot of rain fell in the wake of the hurricane.
The opening of the island's main port in the capital allowed 11 ships to bring in 1.6 million gallons of water, 23,000 cots, dozens of generators and food.
Dozens more shipments are expected in upcoming days.
The federal aid effort is racing to stem a growing humanitarian crisis in towns left without fresh water, fuel, electricity or phone service.
Officials with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is in charge of the relief effort, said they would take satellite phones to all of Puerto Rico's towns and cities, more than half of which were cut off following Maria's devastating crossing of Puerto Rico on Wednesday.
The island's infrastructure was in sorry shape long before Maria struck.
A $73 billion debt crisis has left agencies like the state power company broke.
As a result the power company abandoned most basic maintenance in recent years, leaving the island subject to regular blackouts.
A federal control board overseeing Puerto Rico's finances authorized up to $1 billion in local funds to be used for hurricane response, but Gov.
Ricardo Rossello said he would ask for more.
"We're going to request waivers and other mechanisms so Puerto Rico can respond to this crisis," he said.
"Puerto Rico will practically collect no taxes in the next month."
U.S. Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York said she will request a one-year waiver from the Jones Act, a federal law blamed for driving up prices on Puerto Rico by requiring cargo shipments there to move only on U.S. vessels as a means of supporting the U.S. maritime industry.
"We will use all our resources," Velazquez said.
"We need to make Puerto Rico whole again.
These are American citizens."
A group of anxious mayors arrived in the capital to meet with Rossello to present a long list of items they urgently need.
The north coastal town of Manati had run out of fuel and fresh water, Mayor Jose Sanchez Gonzalez said.
"Hysteria is starting to spread.
The hospital is about to collapse.
It's at capacity," he said, crying.
"We need someone to help us immediately."
The death toll from Maria in Puerto Rico was at least 10, including two police officers who drowned in floodwaters in the western town of Aguada.
That number was expected to climb as officials from remote towns continued to check in with officials in San Juan.
Authorities in the town of Vega Alta on the north coast said they had been unable to reach an entire neighborhood called Fatima, and were particularly worried about residents of a nursing home.
"I need to get there today," Mayor Oscar Santiago told The Associated Press.
"Not tomorrow, today."
Rossello said Maria would clearly cost more than the last major storm to wallop the island, Hurricane George in September 1998.
"This is without a doubt the biggest catastrophe in modern history for Puerto Rico," he said.
Rossello and other officials praised the federal government for planning its response in detail before the storm hit, a contrast with what Puerto Rico has long seen as the neglect of 3.4 million Americans living in a territory without a vote in Congress or the electoral college.
"This is the first time we get this type of federal coordination," said Resident Commission Jenniffer Gonzalez, Puerto Rico's non-voting representative in Washington.
A dam upstream of the towns of Quebradillas and Isabela in northwest Puerto Rico was cracked but had not burst by Saturday night as water continued to pour out of rain-swollen Lake Guajataca.
Federal officials said Friday that 70,000 people, the number who live in the surrounding area, would have to be evacuated.
But Javier Jimenez, mayor of the nearby town of San Sebastian, said he believed the number was far smaller.
Secretary of Public Affairs Ramon Rosario said about 300 families were in harm's way.
The governor said there is "significant damage" to the dam and authorities believe it could give way at any moment.
"We don't know how long it's going to hold.
The integrity of the structure has been compromised in a significant way," Rossello said.
Some residents nonetheless returned to their homes Saturday as the water levels in the reservoir began to sink.
"There were a lot of people worried and crying, but that's natural, because the reservoir was about to break through," said Maria Nieves, 43.
"They couldn't open the spillway until later in the night."
The 345-yard (316-meter) dam, which was built around 1928, holds back a man-made lake covering about 2 square miles (5 square kilometers).
More than 15 inches (nearly 40 centimeters) of rain from Maria fell on the surrounding mountains.
Officials said 1,360 of the island's 1,600 cellphone towers were downed, and 85 percent of above-ground and underground phone and internet cables were knocked out.
With roads blocked and phones dead, officials said, the situation may worsen.
At least 31 lives in all have been lost around the Caribbean due to Maria, including at least 15 on hard-hit Dominica.
Haiti reported three deaths; Guadeloupe, two; and the Dominican Republic, one.
Across Puerto Rico, more than 15,000 people are in shelters, including some 2,000 rescued from the north coastal town of Toa Baja.
Many Puerto Ricans planned to head to the mainland to temporarily escape the devastation.
Coto reported from San Juan.
Five days after the deadly magnitude 7.1 earthquake, the hulking wreckage of what used to be a seven-story office building is one of the last hopes: one of the few sites where searchers believe they may still find someone trapped alive in Mexico City.
Among the families of the missing, there are periodic moments when spirits lift.
A flurry of activity, or relatives are summoned to the search site, raising hopes that someone has been found.
But despair deepens when the work slows or even stops, when rain or an aftershock threatens the stability of the tottering pile, and as day after day passes without their loved ones emerging.
For the family of Adrian Moreno, a missing 26-year-old human resources worker at an accounting firm, the emotional roller coaster is getting to be too much.
Moreno's mother has a look of anguish and has largely stopped being able to speak.
His boyfriend, Dario Hernandez, also looks lost, his gaze tear-stained and unfocused.
"Just hearing the earthquake alarm was horrible," Hernandez said of a siren that rang during a 6.1 quake Saturday that was an aftershock of an even earlier and bigger temblor on Sept. 7.
"Something moves and ..." he said, his voice trailing away at the unspeakable thought the whole pile could suddenly collapse.
"There is a lot of nervousness, a lot of desperation.
This is the worst thing I have ever seen in my life, the worst."
A total of 38 buildings in the Mexican capital  mostly apartment blocks or office buildings  collapsed in the Sept. 19 earthquake, and the first days saw a dramatic scramble with picks, shovels and bare hands to reach survivors.
Mexican marines, the lead force in many of the rescue efforts, said they had recovered 102 bodies and rescued 115 people alive from buildings toppled by the quake, which has killed 320 people including 182 in the capital alone, according to the latest death toll announced Sunday.
Thousands more have been left homeless because their houses or apartment buildings, while still standing, have been rendered too dangerous to remain.
Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera reported that 7,649 properties have been examined and 87 percent of those are safe and require only minor repairs.
But that means about 1,000 left standing have been deemed uninhabitable  and the number seemed likely to rise as more are inspected.
Mancera also said Saturday night on Twitter that nearly 17,000 people have been "attended to" at 48 shelters, though it's not clear how many of those are being housed there.
Many are bunking with family or friends.
Inspections of the city's nearly 9,000 public and private schools have only barely begun.
Federal Education Secretary Aurelio Nuno said Sunday that only 103 schools had been approved to resume classes Monday.
One by one the searches have closed down in recent days, after sniffer dogs were sent in and didn't find life and thermal imaging devices turned up no body heat signatures.
Then heavy machinery moved in to begin removing the mountains of debris.
Empty lots began to appear where just days ago a building stood.
Now hopes were focused solely on concrete slabs at two sites: the former office block in the Roma Norte neighborhood, where around 40 people were believed to be missing, and an apartment building on the south side where searchers were looking for five people.
At the latter site, members of a Japanese search and rescue team pulled a small white dog from the rubble alive Sunday afternoon, cradling and petting it as they brought it down.
Expert search teams that flew in from other countries including the United States and Israel have worked alongside their Mexican counterparts this week to help tunnel, measure and direct the removal of chunks of concrete.
At the Roma Norte site, after Saturday's aftershock passed, work began again, grim, controlled, purposeful.
An enormous crane lifted huge chunks of concrete slab.
Previously rescuers carved reinforced vertical tunnels into the heart of the wreckage, and from there crawled into the narrow, claustrophobic horizontal spaces left between the collapsed floors.
Work stopped again for about an hour Sunday afternoon after the mound of debris shifted, resuming after experts checked the pile for stability.
The last time someone was found alive was Wednesday, when a woman was pulled from the rubble.
A couple of bodies were found Friday.
Volunteer rescue worker Johny Yebra said the smell of death was now heavy directly atop the rubble heap, and by Sunday afternoon, occasional gusts of wind were blowing it outside the immediate search site.
"All of us are doing the most we can," Yebra said.
Beyond the barricades and the ring of floodlights that lit the area overnight lay a makeshift collection of tents and tarps where anxious family members have endured rain, cold, grief and sleeplessness.
"It has been many days.
Four, five ... we can only wait and bear what happens," said Enrique de Luna, the uncle of another missing man, Said Guzman.
As the names of the confirmed dead trickled in, one by one, their relatives have been packing up their tents and going away.
That happened Saturday with the family next to Moreno's.
They didn't say a word as they left weeping, and nobody had the courage to ask them what news they had received.
Everyone was even more on edge Sunday as rescuers told families they were going to lift a large slab that could reveal some information about anyone inside.
"We are very nervous.
They're going to remove the last rock in there," said Dario Hernandez, Adrian Moreno's friend.
Some fell silent and didn't want to talk anymore.
Next to a tent someone had strung up a canvas sign: "Adrian, you are a warrior.
Your family, your friends and Dario are waiting for you."
Associated Press writers Peter Orsi and Christopher Sherman contributed to this report.
Iraqi Kurds cast ballots on Monday in their autonomous region and in a wide sweep of captured territories on whether to seek independence from Baghdad, a historic vote that has also raised tensions and fears of instability.
The referendum is non-binding and will not immediately bring independence, but it would mark a definitive stance by the Kurds to break away, and Kurdish leaders say they will use a "yes" vote to press for negotiations with Iraq's central government to win statehood.
From Istanbul, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened military intervention in Iraq in response to the vote, stressing that Kurdish independence was unacceptable to his country and that this was a "matter of survival."
The Iraqi Kurdish push for independence has been made even more combustible because Kurdish forces captured extensive territories in fighting with the Islamic State group in the past year.
Those territories run from northwest Iraq across the country to the Iranian border on the east  including the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.
Baghdad claims those territories, but the Kurds say they are part of their zone and residents there are participating in Monday's vote.
More than 3 million people are expected to vote across the three provinces that officially make up the Iraqi Kurdish autonomous region and in the disputed territories, according to the Independent High Elections and Referendum Commission, the body overseeing the vote.
Lines began forming early in the day at polling stations across Irbil, the Kurdish regional capital.
Tahsin Karim was one of the first people to vote in his Irbil neighborhood.
"Today we came here to vote in the referendum for the independence of Kurdistan," he said.
"We hope that we can achieve independence."
The Kurdish region's president, Masoud Barzani, also voted at a polling station packed with journalists and cameras.
On the eve of the referendum, Barzani said he believed the vote would be peaceful, though he acknowledged that the path to independence would be "risky."
"We are ready to pay any price for our independence," he said.
The referendum is being carried out despite mounting opposition from Baghdad and the international community.
The United States, a key ally of Iraq's Kurds, has warned the vote will likely destabilize the region amid the fight against IS.
The Iraqi central government has also come out strongly against the referendum, demanding on Sunday that all airports and borders crossings in the Kurdish region be handed back to federal government control.
In a televised address from Baghdad on Sunday night, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said that "the referendum is unconstitutional.
It threatens Iraq, peaceful coexistence among Iraqis and is a danger to the region."
"We will take measures to safeguard the nation's unity and protect all Iraqis," he added.
Turkey said on Monday that it doesn't recognize the referendum and declared its results would be "null and void."
Erdogan, speaking at a conference in Ankara, pointed to Turkish military exercises underway along Turkey's border with the Iraqi Kurdish region and said that "our military is not (there) for nothing."
"We could arrive suddenly one night," he said, adding that Turkey would take political, economic as well as military measures against Iraqi Kurds' steps toward independence.
He also suggested that Turkey could halt oil flows from a pipeline from northern Iraq.
Ankara called on the international community and especially regional countries not to recognize the vote either and urged Iraq Kurdish leaders to abandon "utopic goals," accusing them of endangering peace and stability for Iraq and the whole region.
On Saturday, Turkey's parliament met in an extraordinary session to extend a mandate allowing Turkey's military to send troops over its southern border if developments in Iraq and Syria are perceived as national security threats.
Initial results from the poll are expected on Tuesday, with the official results to be announced later in the week.
At his press conference, Barzani also said that while the referendum will be the first step in a long process to negotiate independence, the region's "partnership" with the Iraqi central government in Baghdad is over.
He detailed the abuses Iraq's Kurds have faced by Iraqi forces, including killings at the hands of former leader Saddam Hussein's army that left more than 50,000 Kurds dead.
Iraqi Kurds have long dreamed of independence  something the Kurdish people were denied when colonial powers drew the map of the Middle East after World War I.
The Kurds form a sizable minority in Turkey, Iran, Syria, and Iraq.
In Iraq, they have long been at odds with the Baghdad government over the sharing of oil revenues and the fate of disputed territories like Kirkuk.
The Kurds have been a close American ally for decades, and the first U.S. airstrikes in the campaign against IS were launched to protect Irbil.
Kurdish forces later regrouped and played a major role in driving the extremists from much of northern Iraq, including Mosul, the country's second largest city.
But the U.S. has long been opposed to Kurdish moves toward independence, fearing it could lead to the breakup of Iraq and bring even more instability to an already volatile Middle East.
In Baghdad, residents strongly criticized then referendum, saying it would raise sectarian tensions and create an "Israel in Iraq."
An Arabic newspaper headline said "Kurdistan into the unknown," a reference to the name Kurds use for their region.
"This is a division of Iraq," said journalist Raad Mohammad while another Baghdad resident, Ali al-Rubayah, described the referendum as a "black day in the history of the Kurds."
Lawyer Tariq al-Zubaydi said the referendum was inappropriate amid the "ongoing threat of terrorism and Islamic State" militants.
"The country is going through a difficult period, this requires a coming together of our efforts, he said.
"A unified country is better for all."
Voting was also underway on Monday morning in Kirkuk.
The oil-rich city has large Kurdish, Arab, Turkmen and Christian communities and has seen some low-level clashes in the days leading up to Monday's vote.
"I feel so great and happy, I feel we'll be free," said Suad Pirot, a Kirkuk Kurdish resident, after voting.
"Nobody will rule us, we will be independent."
Associated Press writers Ali Abdul-Hassan in Irbil, Iraq, Bram Janssen in Kirkuk, Iraq, and Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, contributed to this report.
Myanmar officials said Monday they have discovered at least 45 slain Hindus in three mass graves in the Southeast Asian country's conflict-torn northern Rakhine state.
The government blames Muslim insurgents for the killings.
Two of the graves were found Sunday and contained the bodies of 20 females and eight males, Border Guard Police Maj. Zayar Nyein said.
The government's Information Committee said on its Facebook page that all eight males were boys, including six who were under 10 years old.
It said another mass grave was discovered 200 meters (200 yards) away on Monday that contained the bodies of 17 more Hindu villagers.
Police blame the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army insurgent group, or ARSA.
Security forces say the bodies are among about 100 Hindus missing since ARSA attacked at least 30 police outposts Aug. 25.
There was no immediate way to independently verify the government's assertions.
A government crackdown that followed the attacks left more than 200 Rohingya Muslim villages burned and sent at least 420,000 Rohingya fleeing into Bangladesh.
The government has said most of the hundreds of people who were killed were insurgents.
The Information Committee said the bodies were found in Yebawkya village of Maungdaw township, which was hardest hit by the violence.
It said a Hindu man who lived in the village and has since fled to Bangladesh told a local leader that ARSA insurgents took about 100 Hindus from the village and killed all of them except for eight women who were forced to convert to Islam and brought to Bangladesh.
The committee said nearby residents searched and found the pits holding the bodies in the northwest part of the village.
The latest on Hurricane Maria and its devastation of Puerto Rico (all times local):

4:55 p.m.
The U.S. Department of Energy says initial damage assessments and power restoration efforts have begun on Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
The agency said Sunday that it is coordinating with the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, FEMA and a team from the New York Power Authority, including the use of drones and helicopters.
Restoration efforts to some critical facilities are underway.
An eight-member team from the Energy Department's Western Area Power Authority that was deployed to Puerto Rico ahead of the storm and assisted with initial damage assessments has been redeployed to St. Thomas in the U.S. Virgin Islands.
The Energy Department says additional DOE responders are prepared to deploy to Puerto Rico and will do so as soon as transportation can be arranged.
4:40 p.m.

A New York member of Congress who traveled to Puerto Rico with New York's governor to assess damage by Hurricane Maria says the U.S. territory and the state are inextricably linked.
Democratic Rep. Nydia Velazquez says: "For New Yorkers, Puerto Ricans are family - for some figuratively and, for many of us, literally.
New Yorkers take care of their family."
She notes Puerto Rico was already struggling from a decade-long economic slump, but now "the island has been dealt a crushing blow and needs all the assistance it can get."
Velazquez has been named by New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo to co-chair a state effort to support Puerto Rico's recovery.
She says that she and others in the New York congressional delegation will be advocating for federal funding to swiftly repair and rebuild Puerto Rico's electrical grid, help small businesses recover and address other problems.
3:50 p.m.

Jennifer Lopez says she's donating $1 million from the proceeds of her Las Vegas residency to relief efforts in Puerto Rico, where she has family roots.
The entertainer announced the pledge on Sunday at an event describing New York state efforts to aid the hurricane-devastated island.
She said she and former baseball player Alex Rodriguez, along with singer Marc Anthony and a range of Latino musicians, athletes and business leaders would commit to get resources and aid to Puerto Rico and the wider Caribbean region.
An emotional Lopez spoke first in Spanish, talking about how Hurricane Maria has ravaged the island, and calling on everyone to get involved in helping to rebuild.
12:45 p.m.

Puerto Rico's government says engineers will inspect the Guajataca Dam on Sunday to determine the extent of damage inflicted by Hurricane Maria last week.
The dam was cracked but had not burst by late Saturday.
But Public Affairs Secretary Ramon Rosario Rosario said in a statement that the dam's "fissure was big and it will collapse at any minute."
Fears that the dam would fail prompted the government to evacuate nearby residents.
The 345-yard (316-meter) dam was built around 1928.
It holds back a man-made lake covering about 2 square miles (5 square kilometers).
More than 15 inches (nearly 40 centimeters) of rain from Maria fell on the surrounding mountains.
11:45 a.m.

A French warship has brought reconstruction equipment to Caribbean islands slammed by hurricanes Irma and Maria as part of broader efforts to help French territories cope with extreme weather.
The Defense Ministry said Sunday the helicopter carrier Tonnerre has arrived with more than 1,000 tons of material and 300 additional military personnel for the cleanup on St. Martin and nearby islands.
That brings the total French military presence to 2,000 people.
It also said Defense Minister Florence Parly is ordering a new patrol ship to be permanently stationed in the Caribbean to help with future storms and to fight trafficking.
A joint French, British and Dutch aid coordination effort is also underway for Caribbean territories with lingering ties to Europe, after criticism that governments didn't sufficiently prepare the islands for this season's hurricanes.
11:15 a.m.
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Hurricane Maria has weakened slightly as it moves northward, but it's still likely to bring increasing swells and high surf to the Southeastern U.S. coast.
Maria, which walloped Puerto Rico as a Category 4 hurricane last week, is now a Category 2 storm with maximum sustained winds of 105 mph (165 kph)

The Hurricane Center says it was centered about 475 miles (765 kilometers) south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina before noon Sunday.
It said people along the Carolina and Mid-Atlantic coasts should monitor the storm.
More than 35,000 people have fled a menacing volcano on the Indonesian tourist island of Bali, fearing it will erupt for the first time in more than half a century as increasing tremors rattle the region.
The numbers Sunday from disaster officials are more than double previous estimates and are continuing to rise, they say.
It includes people who left voluntarily as well as those told to evacuate from a 9-12 kilometer (6-8 mile) zone around Mount Agung.
Authorities raised the volcano's alert status to the highest level Friday following a "tremendous increase" in seismic activity.
Its last eruption in 1963 killed 1,100 people.
Luhut Binsar Panjaitan, a senior Cabinet minister, said Sunday that the districts surrounding the volcano "must be prepared for the worst."
The National Disaster Mitigation Agency has praised the welcoming response of local communities on Bali to the flood of evacuees.
Thousands are living in temporary shelters, sport centers, village halls and with relatives or friends.
Some return to the danger zone during the day to tend to livestock.
National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Sutopo Purwo Nugroho said 14 tons of aid has been sent, including tents, blankets, mattresses and portable communications equipment.
Truck driver Wayan Suparta said he and his family left their village 5 kilometers (3 miles) from the mountain several days ago, bringing just clothes and blankets to a temporary camp in Rendang.
The 35-year-old said he sold the family's cow because they don't know when they'll be able to return.
Officials have said there is no current danger to people in other parts of Bali, a popular tourist island famous for its surfing, beaches and elegant Hindu culture.
Hoaxes have proliferated online, with videos of previous eruptions in Indonesia circulated as current events at Mount Agung.
In 1963, the 3,031-meter (9,944-foot) Agung hurled ash as high as 20 kilometers (12 miles), according to volcanologists, and remained active for about a year.
Lava traveled 7.5 kilometers (4.7 miles) and ash reached Indonesia's capital, Jakarta, about 1,000 kilometers (620 miles) away.
The mountain, 72 kilometers (45 miles) to the northeast of the tourist hotspot of Kuta, is among more than 120 active volcanoes in Indonesia.
The country of thousands of islands is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the Pacific "Ring of Fire," an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the Pacific Basin.
North Korea hasn't reacted yet to newly announced U.S. travel restrictions on its citizens, but they are largely a symbolic measure for the North Asian country already under severe sanctions because of its nuclear weapons program.
Most or all of the North Koreans living in the United States are based at the country's diplomatic mission to the United Nations.
The restrictions in the proclamation President Donald Trump signed Sunday include the suspension of all immigrant and non-immigrant visas for North Korean nationals.
It would take effect next month.
South Korean analysts believe, though, the U.S. measure wouldn't target North Korean diplomats.
Certain North Korean individuals are banned from traveling already due to sanctions imposed because of the country's nuclear weapons program.
North Korea does not allow its own ordinary citizens to travel abroad except in special cases, like to work in overseas jobs that bring in foreign currency or to participate in international sporting events.
Margarita Aponte and her relatives cleared the road in front of her house with two oxen Sunday, then drove an hour from her devastated hometown in central Puerto Rico to the old telegraph building in the capital of San Juan.
There, thousands of Puerto Ricans gathered for a chance at a resource nearly as precious as power and water in the wake of Hurricane Maria  communication.
"It's ringing, it's ringing, it's ringing!"
Aponte, a janitor, screamed as her phone connected to free Wi-Fi and her Facetime call went through to the mainland.
Her eyes filled with tears as she talked with nephews, uncles, brothers and sisters in Florida and Massachusetts for the first time since Maria destroyed nearly every cellphone and fiber optic connection on this U.S. territory of 3.4 million people.
The low murmur at one of two free Wi-Fi hotspots is occasionally interrupted by the cheering of someone getting through the largely jammed network.
Most spend hours frowning at their phones, unable to connect.
"There's no communication.
We're in God's hands," Yesenia Gomez, a kitchen worker, said as she left a message for her mother in the neighboring Dominican Republic.
Dozens of other Puerto Ricans opted to pull over to the side of the road along various highways where cellphone signals were strongest.
Carlos Ocasio, a maintenance worker, picked his way through tree branches and broken glass bottles as he found a spot with a good signal.
Soon, he was able to reach his brother in New Jersey.
"My throat got a little choked up and I couldn't talk for a minute," he said.
"They're calling me from everywhere, asking when I'm going to arrive."
Others in Puerto Rico and abroad called a local radio station to provide names, numbers, exact addresses and pictures of their loved ones in hopes of reconnecting.
But for hundreds of thousands of Puerto Ricans living on the U.S. mainland, there has been only silence from the island.
Shirley Rodriguez, a resident of New York's Brooklyn borough, said she has more than 30 relatives in Puerto Rico but she is especially concerned about her 66-year-old mother, Mildred Rodriguez, who has diabetes and pulmonary hypertension and lives in Hormigueros on the island's west coast.
Rodriguez last spoke to her family before the storm and her relatives were planning on being together for it.
Since then, calls to their cellphones have gone to voicemail.
"I'm absolutely numb at this point.
It's a rollercoaster of emotion," she said.
"Not knowing is extremely agonizing."
Her mother-in-law is in the San Juan area and somehow managed to connect with someone who works for the mayor of Hormigueros, who was able to tell Rodriguez that the area where her parents live escaped flooding.
But she still doesn't know what the actual conditions are like.
Some in Puerto Rico expressed anger over what they said was a lack of communication from cellphone providers about which towers were working so they could drive in that direction.
"They're not giving us any information," said Ricardo Castellanos, a business consultant.
"We're in a state of emergency."
Castellanos visits the Wi-Fi hotspots twice a day to try to reach his two daughters in the central town of Gurabo and has been able to send a few pictures to friends on social media of the devastation the hurricane left behind.
As people continued to search for a connection in silence, some occasionally spoke up to offer unsolicited advice.
"I didn't move my phone around, and I got a signal," said one woman to a man complaining that he was in a dead zone.
Nearby, retiree Sylvia Calero tapped her phone with impeccably manicured bright orange fingernails as she tried to reach three brothers and three grandchildren in the hard-hit coastal town of Aguadilla in northwest Puerto Rico.
She spent an hour walking up and down the upscale Condado district unable to find a signal before driving to the free Wi-Fi hotspot.
"Zero communication," she said.
Leaning against a boarded-up window, illustrator Avalon Clare from Colorado worried about getting off the island.
She and her partner were supposed to fly out of Puerto Rico on Saturday but the flight was canceled.
It was rescheduled for Thursday, but Clare said she had no way to confirm whether that was still the case.
"The only think I can do is text," she said.
"We're trying to leave because we can't work without internet ... We only have half a tank of gas.
We're running out of cash.
It's just getting harder."
Jenniffer Gonzalez, Puerto Rico's non-voting representative in Congress, urged people to remain calm, noting that the towers of one cellphone provider that had constant coverage after the hurricane collapsed Sunday.
"Don't become desperate," she said, adding that if anyone was in danger, local officials would have been notified by now.
Only about 25 percent of towers were working in the San Juan metro area.
Cell service provider T-Mobile said it reached a deal with other providers to help reconnect their customers, saying callers should use the roaming data option to find a connection.
Officials said customers would not be charged extra.
Claro was installing 40 generators to power up its towers, and expected 50 more generators to arrive from the Dominican Republic once a ferry from the neighboring island is operational.
Ricardo Rossello said a major underwater cable had been repaired, which would allow people to make long-distance calls and improve internet service.
Two planes from Spain's telephone company also arrived over the weekend to help re-establish services.
Persistence paid off for many who waited up to three hours to find a signal, including Wanda Nieves, a government worker who stood at one of the free Wi-Fi hotspots.
She heard about it on the radio and drove 30 minutes to reach the site.
Nieves spoke to family in Florida and Michigan and did not plan to return for more calls or messages.
"We've already given signs of life," she said.
"Now we just wait for Puerto Rico to recover."
Danica Coto on Twitter: https://twitter.com/danicacoto



Associated Press writer Deepti Hajela in New York contributed to this report.
Puerto Rico's nonvoting representative in the U.S. Congress said Sunday that Hurricane Maria's destruction has set the island back decades, even as authorities worked to assess the extent of the damage.
"The devastation in Puerto Rico has set us back nearly 20 to 30 years," said Puerto Rico Resident Commissioner Jenniffer Gonzalez.
"I can't deny that the Puerto Rico of now is different from that of a week ago.
The destruction of properties, of flattened structures, of families without homes, of debris everywhere.
The island's greenery is gone."
Engineers on Sunday planned to inspect the roughly 90-year-old Guajataca Dam, which holds back a reservoir covering about 2 square miles (5 square kilometers) in northwest Puerto Rico.
The government said it suffered a large crack after Maria dumped 15 inches (nearly 40 centimeters) of rain on the surrounding mountains and that it "will collapse at any minute."
Nearby residents had been evacuated, but began returning to their homes Saturday after a spillway eased pressure on the dam.
Puerto Rico's National Guard diverted an oil tanker that broke free and threatened to crash into the southeast coast, said Gov.
Ricardo Rossello, and officials still had not had communication with nine of 78 municipalities.
"This is a major disaster," he said.
"We've had extensive damage.
This is going to take some time."
The death toll from Maria in Puerto Rico was at least 10, including two police officers who drowned in floodwaters in the western town of Aguada.
That number was expected to climb as officials from remote towns continued to check in with officials in San Juan.
Authorities in the town of Vega Alta on the north coast said they had been unable to reach an entire neighborhood called Fatima, and were particularly worried about residents of a nursing home.
Across the Caribbean, Maria had claimed at least 31 lives, including at least 15 on hard-hit Dominica.
Mike Hyland, a spokesman for the American Public Power Association, which represents the Puerto Rican power agency, said Sunday that restoration is a long ways off.
The organization is working with U.S. Energy Department crews as well as New York Power Authority workers sent down by Gov.
Andrew Cuomo to fly over the island and assess damage.
Crews hoped to get helicopters and drones in the air over the next two days to assess the damage, but Hyland said they need to be patient and let the military continue rescuing people before focusing on restoring power.
"We are trying to get an understanding of the extent of the damage over the next 48 hours to then begin to work with our federal partners to get the right crews and equipment down to Puerto Rico," Hyland said.
Large amounts of federal aid have begun moving into Puerto Rico, welcomed by local officials who praised the Trump administration's response but called for the emergency loosening of rules long blamed for condemning the U.S. territory to second-class status.
The opening of the island's main port in the capital allowed 11 ships to bring in 1.6 million gallons of water, 23,000 cots, dozens of generators and food.
Dozens more shipments are expected in upcoming days.
The federal aid effort is racing to stem a growing humanitarian crisis in towns left without fresh water, fuel, electricity or phone service.
Officials with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which is in charge of the relief effort, said they would take satellite phones to all of Puerto Rico's towns and cities, more than half of which were cut off following Maria's devastating crossing of Puerto Rico on Wednesday.
The island's infrastructure was in sorry shape long before Maria struck.
A $73 billion debt crisis has left agencies like the state power company broke.
As a result the power company abandoned most basic maintenance in recent years, leaving the island subject to regular blackouts.
A federal control board overseeing Puerto Rico's finances authorized up to $1 billion in local funds to be used for hurricane response, but the governor said he would ask for more.
"We're going to request waivers and other mechanisms so Puerto Rico can respond to this crisis," Rossello said.
"Puerto Rico will practically collect no taxes in the next month."
U.S. Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York said she will request a one-year waiver from the Jones Act, a federal law blamed for driving up prices on Puerto Rico by requiring cargo shipments there to move only on U.S. vessels as a means of supporting the U.S. maritime industry.
"We will use all our resources," Velazquez said.
"We need to make Puerto Rico whole again.
These are American citizens."
A group of anxious mayors traveled to the capital to meet with Rossello to present a long list of items they urgently need.
The north coastal town of Manati had run out of fuel and fresh water, Mayor Jose Sanchez Gonzalez said.
"Hysteria is starting to spread.
The hospital is about to collapse.
It's at capacity," he said, crying.
"We need someone to help us immediately."
Across Puerto Rico, more than 15,000 people were in shelters, including some 2,000 rescued from the north coastal town of Toa Baja.
Many Puerto Ricans planned to head to the mainland to temporarily escape the devastation.
AP reporter Christopher Gillette contributed from Guajataca, Puerto Rico.
The Latest on earthquakes in Mexico (all times local):

6:20 p.m.
The Popocatepetl volcano near Mexico City has spewed a cloud of vapor with some ash about a mile (2 kilometers) into the air, but experts said it was not related to the quakes.
The 17,797-foot (5,426-meter) volcano has been periodically erupting since 1994.
Saturday's emissions come shortly after three powerful quakes that together have killed more than 400 people.
12:05 p.m.

Officials say the death toll from this week's magnitude 7.1 earthquake in central Mexico has climbed to 305.
Civil Defense chief Luis Felipe Puente sent out a tweet on Saturday saying 167 of those deaths were in Mexico City.
Morelos state accounted for 73, Puebla for 45, Mexico State for 13, Guerrero for six and Oaxaca for one.
Rescue work is continuing four days after the quake struck.
11:00 a.m.

No place is treating more victims of this week's deadly earthquake than Mexico City's Xoco General Hospital.
When the seismic alarm for a new quake sounded on Saturday morning, hospital workers ordered visitors to evacuate.
That included 43-year-old Syntia Pereda, who was at the bedside of her sleeping boyfriend.
Forty-nine-year-old Jesus Gonzalez fell from a third-story balcony of a building where he was working when Tuesday's magnitude 7.1 quake hit, and he's awaiting surgery.
Pereda said she didn't want to leave: "I was worried about him."
But she left the building and came back in when the shaking stopped.
Pereda said she feels like people are getting accustomed to being on edge.
A quake alarm can go off at any moment and "you say, well, it is God's will."
9:45 a.m.

Seismologists say Saturday's magnitude 6.1 earthquake in southern Mexico is believed to be an aftershock from a powerful Sept. 7 quake that measured 8.1 and killed at least 90 people.
U.S. Geological Survey geophysicist Paul Caruso tells The Associated Press that a strong earthquake like the one earlier this month can damage buildings that don't collapse, making them more vulnerable: "So a smaller earthquake can cause the damaged buildings to fail."
Mexico's National Seismological Service says its own network has recorded thousands of aftershocks of the Sept. 7.
It recorded 15 of magnitude 4.0 or greater just in the first in the first nine and a half hours of Saturday.
8:45 a.m.

Quake alarms sounded in Mexico City as a new quake struck, prompting people with fresh memories of this week's devastating temblor to flee homes and hotels.
Alejandra Castellanos was on the second floor of a hotel in a central neighborhood and ran down the stairs and outside with her husband.
In her words, "I was frightened because I thought, not again!"
At the site of an office that collapsed Tuesday, street signs swayed and rescuers briefly evacuated from atop the pile of rubble before returning to work.
Nataniel Hernandez lives in Tonala, one of the cities hardest hit by an earlier, Sept. 7 quake, which struck off the coast of southern Mexico with a magnitude of 8.1.
He said by phone that it was one of the strongest movements he has felt since then.
But he adds, "Since Sept. 7 it has not stopped shaking."
8:35 a.m.
The U.S. Geological Survey says the new earthquake to strike Mexico had a magnitude of 6.1 and was centered in the southern state of Oaxaca.
It initially calculated the magnitude as 6.2

The director of Mexico's disaster agency says it's an aftershock of the 8.1 quake that hit on Sept. 7 off the country's southern coast.
The new quake also swayed buildings in Mexico City, which is trying to recover from a magnitude 7.1 temblor that struck on Thursday, killing at least 295 people.
It's not immediately clear if the new quake caused damage or injury.
8:15 a.m.
The U.S. Geological Survey says the new earthquake to strike Mexico had a magnitude of 6.2 and was centered in the southern state of Oaxaca.
That's the region most shaken by a magnitude 8.1 quake that hit on Sept. 7.
It also swayed buildings in Mexico City, which is trying to recover from a magnitude 7.1 temblor that struck on Thursday, killing at least 295 people.
It's not immediately clear if the new quake caused damage or injury.
8:10 a.m.

A strong aftershock has rolled through Mexico City, swaying buildings and sending some people running into the street.
The quake was much weaker than the magnitude 7.1 earthquake that hit on Tuesday, killing at least 295 people and knocking down buildings across the capital.
It was not immediately clear if there were any new injuries or damage from the latest quake.
A magnitude 8.1 earthquake struck earlier this month near the state of Chiapas.
3 a.m.
In the stylish Condesa neighborhood, young revelers typically spill out from dimly lit bars and restaurants on a Friday night.
But the first weekend since a 7.1 magnitude earthquake toppled buildings just blocks away began on a somber note.
Instead of crowds gathered with beers, small handfuls of rescue workers still dressed in reflective vests took breaks from digging through rubble.
Entire restaurants with white linen tables were empty.
Metal gates shuttered others.
"It feels lifeless," said Mariana Aguilar, 27, a hostess at a bar and restaurant who stood waiting for guests yet to arrive.
The upscale Mexico City neighborhood was one of the hardest hit by the quake that killed at least 295 people, with more than a half-dozen collapsed buildings in the immediate vicinity.
The few Condesa residents who ventured out Friday night said they were anxious for relief from an anguishing week.
"The city is still quite tense," said Israel Escamilla, an engineer, as he sipped a plastic cup filled with Coke at an empty bar.
"But as good Mexicans we have to keep lending support however we can."
3 a.m.

As earthquake rescue operations stretched into Day 5, Mexico City residents throughout the city held out hope that dozens still missing might be found alive.
More than half the dead 157  perished in the capital, while another 73 died in the state of Morelos, 45 in Puebla, 13 in Mexico State, six in Guerrero and one in Oaxaca.
Along a 60-foot stretch of a bike lane in Mexico City's downtown, families huddled under tarps and donated blankets Friday, awaiting word of loved ones trapped in the four-story-high pile of rubble behind them.
"There are moments when you feel like you're breaking down," said Patricia Fernandez Romero, who was waiting for word on the fate of her 27-year-old son.
"And there are moments when you're a little calmer.
They are all moments that you wouldn't wish on anyone."
Along the bike lane, where families slept in tents, accepting food and coffee from strangers, people have organized to present a united front to authorities, who they pressed ceaselessly for information.
They were told that water and food had been passed along to at least some of those trapped inside.
Fernandez said officials told them they knew where people were trapped on the fourth floor.
It's the moments between those bits of information that torment the families.
Transcript for New video shows destruction near Raqqa after coalition strikes

In Syria as US led coalition has been.
Attacking and bombing the east on X date moving towards proxy that you active capital license and there have been reports about significant civilian casualties county's air strikes.
We recently went to Syria do you investigate these allegations and what we found was that Eden to of the deadliest attacks.
They were indeed some ice as members present there were also dozens if not hundreds of civilians there.
Something that.
Into an eye you and me that's just a Nevada sentiment about ten mile an hour unarmed.
Meaning fifth annual what's in the form.
Who I don't know but I cover.
I'd medical professionals.
Most of those who died where displaced from other parts of Syria.
There is still don't know accurate lists and complete list of all those who died according to locals the numbers that he has ties to an.
Give regularly you under baguette.
Again.
And yet he said bishop of the from combined McKenna other cuts a lot of what for the sudden she's you but from coal to wood from animal to human.
But I speech us coalition forces have said that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that civilians were killed in the attack on the school but as far as we know.
They did not visit the school they do not talk and you weaknesses.
If they had.
Found plenty of evidence that students can doom.
In another attack the coalition bombed a busy market in Tompkins half.
Killing at least 44 civilians including fourteen to.
The case was full of people it was right after sitting here.
We know that there were some ice members around but clearly this was a civilian markets when it was at its peak activity.
Use of women children and men just going about that data lives.
As the US and its allies continued.
To bond prices control territory we'll get really need to do you gaze to take a look at these attacks.
Find out what went wrong and related to easily casualties and make sure.
That doesn't.
I'm going forward.
It should also look into you and providing.
I think compensation or condolences payments to U victims of these strikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Dog rescued from rubble 6 days after Mexico earthquake

Rescue crews in Mexico have a new glimmer of hope in their search for earthquake survivors.
At least 320.
People have been deemed killed by the magnitude seven point one quake last week.
Searchers are currently focused on three sites belong though people have been rescued in days.
A Japanese team pulled a small dog from the remains of an apartment building yesterday still alive.
And that's feeling some hope that more people could still be found.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Now Playing: New video shows destruction near Raqqa after coalition strikes

Now Playing: Dog rescued from rubble 6 days after Mexico earthquake

Now Playing: Merkel wins fourth term as German far-right party makes gains

Now Playing: Aurora Borealis as seen from the ISS

Now Playing: An urgent recall from the Death Wish Coffee Company

Now Playing: Third Invictus games kicks off in Toronto

Now Playing: Tensions escalate between Trump and Kim Jong Un

Now Playing: War of words between President Trump, Kim Jong-Un escalates

Now Playing: Tensions between US and North Korea deepen after UN speech

Now Playing: Syrian-American journalist and her mother killed in Turkey

Now Playing: Death toll rises to nearly 300 from Mexico City quake

Now Playing: Earthquake reported in North Korea near site of recent nuclear test

Now Playing: Rescue efforts continue after devastating earthquake in Mexico City

Now Playing: 4-legged hero among the first responders in Mexico City

Now Playing: Bob Woodruff discusses 'An Inconvenient Border: Where China Meets North Korea'

Now Playing: Search for survivors continues after Mexico earthquake

Now Playing: Rex Tillerson defends US response to North Korea, Russia

Now Playing: Kim Jong Un reacts to Trump's UN speech

Now Playing: On the island of Dominica, nearly complete destruction by Hurricane Maria
{"id":50067447,"title":"Aurora Borealis as seen from the ISS","duration":"0:43","description":"Stunning time-lapse video released by European Space Agency shows the Aurora Borealis as seen from the International Space Station.
","url":"/International/video/aurora-borealis-iss-50067447","section":"International","mediaType":"default"}
Transcript for An urgent recall from the Death Wish Coffee Company

Time now for our "Index."
Breaking news, president trump revealing his new travel ban.
The current ban expiring today.
The president issuing a new order, imposing travel restrictions on Chad, Iran, nof North Korea, Syria, and Yemen.
Now to the air show horror overseas.
An Italian air force jet completing a loop mid-performance failing to get enough altitude and plunging down into the sea.
It happened south of Rome.
Officials saying that pilot was killed.
And we're also following a coffee recall.
The fda saying watch out for nitro brew made by the death wish coffee company.
This is not a joke.
The 11-ounce cans may contain botulism, a potentially fatal food poisoning.
Makers of the coffee, which has about four or five times the caffeine of a regular cup, say throw it away or return it for a refund.
They say they are halting production until they adjust their manufacturing process.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Third Invictus games kicks off in Toronto

Finally tonight, invictus is Latin for unconquered.
And tonight, it's also the very definition of the word comeback.
Here's Marci Gonzalez.
Reporter: A decade after his vehicle struck an ied in Iraq killing the soldier next to him and leaving him with a spinal cord injury, colonel Daniel Dudek, taking on this challenge, on the track and in the pool.
It's more than an honor.
It's part of his healing.
He is one of the 550 injured military veteran athletes from 17 countries competing in this year's invictus games in Toronto.
Now in his 26th year of military service, he is still on active duty.
As he fights to take home a medal for team usa.
I'm gonna beat my times, I'm gonna do what I can to win.
Reporter: And in the owds, the creator of the invictus games, prince Harry.
He is a warrior, I feel like he is one of us.
Reporter: First lady Melania trump also there.
But for Dudek, the focus is on the inspiration this competition can spark for wounded warriors.
Heroes, just like him.
Things like this hopefully can put a spotlight on something that I love and I want other disabled people to love.
Reporter: Marci Gonzales, ABC news.
Thanks to Marcy and the organizers of the invictus games, and all the incredible athletes.
Thanks so much for watching.
I'm Tom llamas in New York.
"Gma" first thing in the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tensions escalate between Trump and Kim Jong Un

Next up, the U.S. With a show of force, sending a message to North Korea.
American bombers flying near the north Korean coast.
As president trump and the regime trade new insults.
The president calling Kim Jong-un little rocket man.
North Korea warning that an attack on the U.S. Is becoming more inevitable.
Here's Bob woodruff.
Reporter: American b-1 bombers and f-15 fighter jets took off in the night, flying farther north of the dmz than any time in nearly two decades.
While in Pyongyang this weekend, thousands marched through the streets during a rally against the U.S.
The show of force from both nations comes as the volley of insults reaches an alarming level.
President trump tweeted Saturday, "Just heard foreign minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of little rocket man they won't be around much longer."
His tweet comes after the north Korean foreign minister slammed the president at the united nations, calling him "A mentally deranged person" who "Committed an irreversible mistake."
Days earlier, president trump in the same venue with that warning.
If it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.
Reporter: North Korea then threatened to test a hydrogen bomb above the pacific ocean, something they have never done before.
Everything he has said he would do.
I will test a hydrogen bomb, I will send an icbm test.
He's done.
So why wouldn't he test a hydrogen bomb over the pacific?
I think the likelihood is there that he will test a bomb at some point.
And Bob joins us live.
You've been covering North Korea for more than a decade, you were just on the north korean/china border.
And you told me something you've never seen before?
The tension is growing.
Probably with more missile launches and nuclear tests.
But bottom line, they have no idea what Kim Jong-un will do, he's unpredictable compared to his father and grandfather.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for War of words between President Trump, Kim Jong-Un escalates

Thank you.
Joining me to discuss the escalating tensions with north Korea, retired general James cartwright.
And Evan osnos of "The new Yorker."
I want to start with you, general cartwright.
Americans are clearly nervous.
Concerned about president trump's judgment in this.
How close do you think we are to a military confrontation?
Is all this making it harder?
My sense is that the tepgss are as high as they have been in anybody's recollection.
We're really at a dangerous point.
The likelihood of a direct confrontation is probably not that high.
That's not the way North Korea operates.
They tend to pick off people who are out on their own, think Pueblo, any number of incidents we have had with them.
A direct confrontation, they can't win.
More likely it will be something we stumble into.
Somebody misinterprets an action.
You have two forces standing against each other on their.
Pi toes.
Ready to go.
We have provocations.
Kim Jong-un feeling personally insulted.
Everything he has said he would do, I will test a hydrogen bomb, I will send an icbm test, he's done.
So why wouldn't he test a high drone general bomb?
I think the likelihood is there that he'll test a bomb.
At some point.
It's time to state very clearly, flying missiles over our allies, endangering other populations is unacceptable and has to stop.
And there are con quens for that.
They're probably more along the line of we're going to engage those activities.
Use our capabilities in missile defense to address those issues.
A direct confrontation on their soil is not likely.
Evan, you spent so much time in North Korea.
You talked to a lot of officials.
How do you think they view what is going on?
Do you agree he'll not go to war?
Well, by the standards of dictatorship, Kim Jong-un is extraordinarily worried about perceptions.
Until recently, the north Korean officials had told me they were aware of the fact that president trump had not personalized this dispute.
They thought that meant there was an opportunity, a possibility for diplomatic negotiation.
The risk of personalizing it suggests that that may no longer be possible.
Would you also think he would test a hydrogen bomb?
I think he's indicated he is willing to do extraordinarily provocative things.
We need to be prepared for that.
I asked the secretary about that.
He said he wouldn't talk about it.
Ifhey do that, there's very serious consequences to something like that.
We haven't done an atmospheric test in decade.
How would we respond?
It would have to be militarily, wouldn't it?
Guessing what we would do in the future is hard.
The time right now should be spent on declaring what is not acceptable.
You're not going the fly over Japan.
Not going to fly over south Korea.
So he's doing the right thing?
You have to declare those things to make sure people understand.
When we first started with the north Koreans, they were launching over the top of Japan.
We said, one, you have to tell us when you're going launch.
Two, where that's going to go, what areas it's going to come down in.
They, over time, came to that.
Two or three laumpls before they got the idea.
We have to start now to declare that space.
If we don't, then it's very difficult as you get further down the road, if we act, how it will be sbrep receiinterpreted?
We don't know.
How we view each other is a problem.
We don't know.
Tremendous gap between perception.
If there's one lesson on I took away from the trump, as much as we don't understand what Kim Jong-un does, the north K Koreans don't understand president trump.
There's a strong view on the national security community we're ready to have some kind of engagement.
Thank you both so much.
Fantastic article, Evan.
When we come back,

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tensions between US and North Korea deepen after UN speech

of wards in which president trump is engaged this morning.
This one, with nuclear stakes.
Trump and North Korea exchanging a fresh round of public insults over the the weekend.
All of this as the Pentagon sent a message to Pyongyang by flying bombers and fighter jets along the north Korean coast.
A record 83% see north kree yazz a a threat, only2% trust president trump to handle north Korea.
Stephanie Ramos is in new Jersey.
Where the president is waking up this morning.
Stephanie, good morning to you.
Reporter: Dan and Paula, good morning.
North Korea's foreign minister lashed out against president trump during a speech to the U.N. General assembly, saying trumps a fiery comments put the U.S. And North Korea closer to war.
This morning, more tension.
After the president tweeted this overnight.
Just heard foreign minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he ek coast thoughts of little rocket man, they won't be around much longer.
This, after North Korea's foreign minister slammed president trump for insulting North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un.
Saying he's committed an inreversible mistake.
In case innocent lives of the U.S. Are harmed because of the suicide attack, trump will the held totally responsible.
He called president trump a mentally deranged person full of megalomania and full of complacency.
The insults between trump and Kim Jong-un are getting worse.
Not leaving much room for a diplomatic solution.
What North Korea wants more than anything else is a direct stand off or confrontation with the United States.
Reporter: In a show of mill stage strength, U.S. Air force b-1 B bombers flew off the coast of North Korea an Saturday.
Military options are on the table if the U.S.
Needs to defend its.
But those options would come at a high cost.
Any sort of military confrontation would be devastating in terms of the human toll.
Reporter: The aircraft that flew off the coast of north Korea yesterday that's the farthest north of the dmz border any American flight has gone in century.
The pent go says that shows how serious they're taking north Korea's quote reckless behavior.
Paula?
Stephanie, thank you.
We want to bring in Martha Raddatz who is busy prepping for an edition of "This week."
Thank you for joining us.
North Korea.
An enprecedented war of words.
Rocketman.
Dotard.
Madman.
Are we headed to war?
No one can answer that.
This escalation is so alarming, Paula and Dan.
Think especially when you think back at the earlier words with Donald Trump saying the U.S. Could totally destroy north Korea.
And then North Korea comes back and says they will test a hydrogen bomb, possible test a hydrogen bomb over the pacific the.
Kim Jong-un has made many threats.
Said he'll do things.
Test a nuclear weapon underground.
He did it.
Test an icbm.
He did it the.
If he does this, this will be a stunning and dangerous escalati escalation.
I think that's what you have to keep your eye on more than anything that these personal insults that go back and forth, too.
Especially the personal insults to Kim Jong-un.
This is is man who has a cult of personality.
That is his whole thing.
In nofrt North Korea preside.
It is about him.
His personality.
When he's insults, he responds.
He responded in his name this week.
If they do test -- this hydrogen bomb test over the pacific, what options do we have to respond?
Well, I think there are a lot of options to respond.
Do you do some sort of preemptive strike?
What did they have those bombers up there north of the the dmz?
They want to send message that we would respond.
Donald Trump's language about totally destroying North Korea I can't imagine that would happen.
At this point.
But, in many ways, you would have to respond given what the president said.
Given the dangers of an atmospheric test above ground test of a nuclear weapon that has not been done in decades.
And decades, and decades, because of the danger.
Because of nuclear fallout.
The problem is, one response can who knows where that leads?
Could be a slippery slope.
Martha Raddatz.
Scary topic.
Thank you so much for your analysis.
She's got a big show coming up.
More on president trump versus the NFL and the latest on nofrt Korea.
She'll talk with Lindsey graham and bill Cassidy.
We want to move to pueo Rico.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Syrian-American journalist and her mother killed in Turkey

We're back now with the double murder mystery.
This story involves an American born journalist and her mom.
They appeared on ABC last year because they were friends with Kayla Mueller, the young aid worker who was kidnapped wby ISIS and killed.
Reporter: She was only 23 but the human rights work of american-born journalist Halla Barakat and her activist mother orouba Barakat made for a powerful team and also put them at great risk.
I met them last year in Turkey for an ABC news report on the young American hostage, Kayla Mueller, who they had befriended shortly before she died in ISIS captivity, a death they felt deeply.
We're two women that we know it's a cruel world out there for women.
Reporter: This week hala and her mother were the victims, found murdered, stabbed and strangled in their istanbul apartment.
Friends say they had recently been threatened because of their very public criticism of the Assad regime in Syria.
As a reporter for orient TV in istanbul, an anti-syrian regime outlet, the young women had been investigating the horrors of the Assad government.
Despite the crises being the worst and most extreme of its kind, international efforts have failed to hear Syria's warning.
Reporter: Last year hala talked about her American roots.
She was born in North Carolina.
And how heartbroken she had been over the death of Kayla Mueller, the American who had come to the region to help the Syrian refugees fleeing war.
I'm very American.
I'm very Syrian at the same time.
So we fit together very easily.
She's so young to have this experience to happen.
To be dead at this time, at this age.
Reporter: Kayla Mueller's parents told ABC news we are numb and do not understand how anyone could do this to our gracious and beautiful friends.
The funeral for Halla and orouba Barakat will be held today in istanbul.
Because Halla was an American citizen, the FBI says it will investigate.
Brian Ross, ABC news, New York.
Such a tragedy.
Our thanks to Brian Ross for

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Death toll rises to nearly 300 from Mexico City quake

We turn to the life or death struggle in Mexico City where five days after that earthquake rescue crews are desperately digging through the rubble.
Matt Gutman is in Mexico City where Americans are assisting in the search for survivors.
Matt, good morning to you.
Reporter:paula.
This is a scene playing out, heavy machinery moving in, that crane lifting huge chunks of concrete, and you may be able to hear the jackhammers in the background.
This is something that nobody here in Mexico City wanted to see because it means this is moving from a rescue to a recovery effort.
This morning as rescue workers are still swarming over the ruins of this flattened office building, desperation is setting in.
The death toll rising to over 290 people, most of them here in Mexico City.
It's been over 24 hours since rescuers digging out tons of rubble by hand pulled anyone out.
And with the cruel reality setting in, these people protesting, accusing the Mexican government of moving too slowly and letting their family members die.
The rescue effort here has become international.
We joined the L.A. County fire search and rescue team with their canines at that same site.
They say those six stories collapsed so densely there's no void space and the concern is that nobody could have survived that.
They huddled before going in.
And within earshot, this tent city of the families of the missing entering their fifth day of waiting.
They sat there, praying together.
It was right there that we met Faviola.
Her brother believed to be trapped.
The accommodations where her family have been camping for days, spare.
They've been sleeping, sitting on buckets like this.
Sitting there she said they needed everyone to see their strength.
But I ask her how she koecopes after four case.
Then even her steel will snaps.
She says her brother is very strong.
But amidst the flattened buildings and sagging hopes, there were spikes of national pride.
In the rubble of one building rescuers spontaneously singing the Mexican national anthem.
now, minutes ago we saw rescuers recover one of the victims.
The Mexican government still says there is some hope from the victims but it doesn't have an official list.
What has been most impressive here in Mexico is not just the hundreds of rescuers you see behind me but the army, the thousands of volunteers who on their own dime have kept up a steady supply chain of food, water, coffee, supplies for everyone here.
The spirit of solidarity is so nice to see.
Matt Gutman, thanks for your reporting from Mexico City this

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Earthquake reported in North Korea near site of recent nuclear test

breaking story.
An earthquake in North Korea.
It comes in the middle of an escalating war of words between president trump and north Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.
In fact, the president fired off his latest verbal salvos at a speech overnight in balabama.
We have team coverage and we start with the latest on that earthquake.
Jennifer Eccleston is in London.
Good morning.
Reporter: Chinese media are reporting a 3.2 magnitude earthquake in North Korea.
The last time an earthquake was registered in North Korea it was the result of a nuclear test.
No word from Pyongyang about a possible detonation but tensions have been escalating after a war of words between the united States and North Korea about its nuclear ambitions.
That rhetoric follow the detonation of a suspected high Joe dren bomb on September 3.
That blast registered a 6.3 magnitude earthquake.
All of those tests have been underground.
This morning the south Koreans are confirming a small quake with some news reports suggesting the tremor was a natural occurrence.
But those reports also indicating today's quake is near that September explosion.
And just now the USGA also saying it was near that explosion but it did not confirm whether it was a blast or a Normal seismic event.
This follows the North Korea's foreign minister threat to test a hydrogen bomb over the pacific oe ocean and a direct threat from Kim Jong-un to take the highest action against the united States.
Dan and Paula?
Tensions are high this morning.
Jennifer E thanks for your reporting from London this

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Turkey is strongly opposed to the referendum Iraqi Kurds are holding on whether their semi-autonomous region should seek independence from Baghdad.
The Turkish government has threatened economic and military action.
Here's what you need to know about Ankara's interest in the vote:



WHY IS TURKEY SO OPPOSED TO THE REFERENDUM?
Turkey has a large ethnic Kurdish population and has been fighting an insurgency by rebels of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, for more than three decades.
The Turkish government and its allies list PKK as a terror organization.
Turkey fears that moves toward independence by the Iraqi Kurds would encourage Turkish Kurdish aspirations for a separate homeland and further embolden the PKK.
Kurds make up an estimated 15-20 percent of Turkey's population of 80 million.
The nonbinding referendum is being held not only in the official Iraqi Kurdish region, but disputed territories such as oil-rich and ethnically divided Kirkuk.
Turkey has ethnic and historic ties to Kirkuk's Turkmen population, sees the move as an attempt by Iraq's Kurds to annex more land.
There are also fears that turmoil in Iraq could destabilize the region and increase the number of refugees heading into Turkey, which already is grappling with 3 million Syrian refugees.
WHAT DO TURKEY'S KURDS SAY ABOUT THE REFERENDUM?
Many Kurds living in the predominantly Kurdish-populated region in southeast Turkey have expressed support for the Iraqi Kurdish region's decision to hold the independence referendum.
The country's pro-Kurdish political party also backs the vote, saying Iraqi Kurds have the right to self-determination.
The leader of the People's Democratic Party and some 10 other party legislators have been jailed for alleged links to Kurdish rebels that they deny.
The party has called on Turkey to refrain from making threats and to respect the referendum.
WHAT STEPS WILL TURKEY TAKE?
Turkey has forged close economic and security ties with the bordering Iraqi Kurdish region over the last decade, so the independence vote creates a dilemma for Ankara.
Turkey considers the Iraqi Kurds allies in the fight against the PKK.
The Iraqi Kurdish administration has largely tolerated Turkey's military actions on PKK bases and hideouts in northern Iraq and allowed it to maintain its own military bases.
Turkey nevertheless launched military exercises at the border with northern Iraq last week in an apparent warning to the Iraqi Kurds.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has threatened military action over the referendum, saying the issue was a "matter of survival" for Turkey.
Turkey says it is weighing economic options, including shutting down a border crossing, stopping oil flows from a pipeline and restricting flights.
The landlocked Iraqi Kurdish region exports its oil through a pipeline to Turkey, while the Turkish state is a main source for Iraqi Kurds' imports.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said Turkey no longer will consider the region as a political entity with authority over borders, pipelines and air space and will deal with central government in Baghdad instead.
The United Kingdom has seen five terror attacks this year, but London Mayor Sadiq Khan said on Sunday that a bigger number of attacks have been foiled.
Since March, seven terror plots have been thwarted, he said.
"The phrase used by police experts, counterterror experts, in relation to terrorism is what we're seeing is not a spike but a shift, Khan told a Guardian live event at the annual conference of his Labour Party in Brighton, England.
"If you look at the time between March of this year and now, yes, there have been four terrorist attacks [in London], but there have been seven that have been thwarted."
This year London saw four attacks: the Westminster attack, the London Bridge attack, the attack against Muslim worshipers near Finsbury Park Mosque and latest the Parsons Green attack in the London subway.
The U.K.s fifth attack this year happened in Manchester following an Ariana Grande concert.
The number made public by Khan is higher than the number previously released.
Earlier this month, the head of London's Metropolitan Police, Neil Basu, said six plots had been thwarted since March.
Khans comments came as the investigation into the Parsons Green attack is ongoing.
On Monday, the city's police force said they arrested a seventh person, a 20-year-old man, in connection with the attack, which wounded dozens of people.
Three of the seven arrested have been released while one has been charged and three remain in custody.
Police are also carrying out searches at different addresses in England.
next

prev

Turkey is strongly opposed to the referendum Iraqi Kurds are holding on whether their semi-autonomous region should seek independence from Baghdad.
The Turkish government has threatened economic and military action.
Here's what you need to know about Ankara's interest in the vote:

___

WHY IS TURKEY SO OPPOSED TO THE REFERENDUM?
Turkey has a large ethnic Kurdish population and has been fighting an insurgency by rebels of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, for more than three decades.
The Turkish government and its allies list PKK as a terror organization.
Turkey fears that moves toward independence by the Iraqi Kurds would encourage Turkish Kurdish aspirations for a separate homeland and further embolden the PKK.
Kurds make up an estimated 15-20 percent of Turkey's population of 80 million.
The nonbinding referendum is being held not only in the official Iraqi Kurdish region, but disputed territories such as oil-rich and ethnically divided Kirkuk.
Turkey has ethnic and historic ties to Kirkuk's Turkmen population, sees the move as an attempt by Iraq's Kurds to annex more land.
There are also fears that turmoil in Iraq could destabilize the region and increase the number of refugees heading into Turkey, which already is grappling with 3 million Syrian refugees.
___

WHAT DO TURKEY'S KURDS SAY ABOUT THE REFERENDUM?
Many Kurds living in the predominantly Kurdish-populated region in southeast Turkey have expressed support for the Iraqi Kurdish region's decision to hold the independence referendum.
The country's pro-Kurdish political party also backs the vote, saying Iraqi Kurds have the right to self-determination.
The leader of the People's Democratic Party and some 10 other party legislators have been jailed for alleged links to Kurdish rebels that they deny.
The party has called on Turkey to refrain from making threats and to respect the referendum.
__

WHAT STEPS WILL TURKEY TAKE?
Turkey has forged close economic and security ties with the bordering Iraqi Kurdish region over the last decade, so the independence vote creates a dilemma for Ankara.
Turkey considers the Iraqi Kurds allies in the fight against the PKK.
The Iraqi Kurdish administration has largely tolerated Turkey's military actions on PKK bases and hideouts in northern Iraq and allowed it to maintain its own military bases.
Turkey nevertheless launched military exercises at the border with northern Iraq last week in an apparent warning to the Iraqi Kurds.
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has threatened military action over the referendum, saying the issue was a "matter of survival" for Turkey.
Turkey says it is weighing economic options, including shutting down a border crossing, stopping oil flows from a pipeline and restricting flights.
The landlocked Iraqi Kurdish region exports its oil through a pipeline to Turkey, while the Turkish state is a main source for Iraqi Kurds' imports.
Prime Minister Binali Yildirim said Turkey no longer will consider the region as a political entity with authority over borders, pipelines and air space and will deal with central government in Baghdad instead.
next

prev

North Korea's top diplomat says President Donald Trump's tweet that leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer" was a declaration of war against his country by the United States.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters Monday that what he called Trump's "declaration of war" gives North Korea "every right" under the U.N. Charter to take countermeasures, "including the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers even they're not yet inside the airspace border of our country."
Ri referred to Trump's tweet Saturday that said: "Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
Ri said: "The question of who won't be around much longer will be answered then."
An Egyptian court has sentenced a prominent opposition leader widely expected to run against President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi in next year's elections to three months in prison for offending public morals.
Khaled Ali didn't attend Monday's trial at the misdemeanor court of Cairo's Dokki neighborhood, where he was convicted for making an obscene finger gesture.
Ali was ordered to pay 1,000 Egyptian pounds (nearly $57) on bail.
The verdict can be appealed but if it stands will bar him from electoral candidacy.
The incident allegedly occurred outside a courthouse in January where Ali and other lawyers had just won a landmark case against the government, blocking its attempts to hand over control of two strategic Red Sea islands to Saudi Arabia.
The presidency has since ratified the islands' transfer.
The horror of British model Chloe Aylings July kidnapping was dutifully detailed in the media, with motion picture-style reports of an organized group called "Black Death" -- but the whole ordeal was a sham," the lawyer of an alleged kidnapper said in court Monday.
The "sham" accusation came out as Michal Herba, who is accused of helping to orchestrate a fake photoshoot to lure the 20-year-old model to Milan, fought extradition orders at Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday, Sky News reported.
His brother, Lukasz Pawel Herba, 30, was also arrested and charged with the kidnapping of Ayling for extortion.
George Hepburne Scott, Herba's lawyer, told a judge he questioned the legitimacy of Aylings story.
"There is a real risk that the entire case is a sham, Scott said.
"The same complainant, it seems, generated publicity from the fact she was nearby the scene of a terrorist attack at the Champs-Elysees in Paris.
MODEL REPORTEDLY KIDNAPPED AS A SEX SLAVE WILL 'EXPOSE ALL' IN NEW BOOK

A post shared by Chloe Ayling (@chloeayling) on Sep 24, 2017 at 8:55am PDT

Scott mentioned an alleged press release that Lukasz Pawel Herba released to a tabloid newspaper which detailed Ayling's saga of nearly being sold on the dark web.
He also said a supposed shopping trip Ayling took during the alleged kidnapping was a wholly anomalous feature of a hostage situation.
"It would amount to an abuse of process of the court if there was any evidence to suggest this was a publicity stunt, Scott said, adding the number of odd facts in the case could show the Italian authorities were duped.
And that [the Italian police] process has been abused, the lawyer said.
But Judge Paul Goldspring wasn't so easily convinced.
"Some believe it to be a sham," Goldspring said in court.
"This material doesn't prove that.
A post shared by Chloe Ayling (@chloeayling) on Jun 14, 2017 at 7:26am PDT

He is expected to rule on the case Friday.
CHLOE AYLING RELIVES TERROR OF BEING KIDNAPPED DURING FIRST TV APPEARANCE SINCE INCIDENT

The model has maintained her kidnapping was real, discussing the terrifying experience on Britains This Morning in August.
She said she feared she would be killed and prayed for a non-painful death.
Ayling described being drugged, stuffed into a suitcase, transported to an isolated farmhouse and held for almost a week.
The kidnappers allegedly threatened to advertise her as a sex slave on the criminal dark web or hold her for ransom.
A post shared by Chloe Ayling (@chloeayling) on Apr 11, 2017 at 8:37am PDT

"It is really hurtful to see people doubt my story.
Like when I went shoe shopping apparently, which was to the camping shop to get shoes for the consulate, people were saying why didn't I run?
she said in her television interview.
Her kidnapping ordeal ended when they dropped her off at the British consulate in Milan.
Lukasz Herba was arrested the next day.
Ayling blamed her former agent for the kidnapping.
The captors tried to extort more than $350,000 from the agent.
A post shared by Chloe Ayling (@chloeayling) on Apr 25, 2017 at 9:07am PDT

Ayling also announced she will be writing a book to "expose every little detail for the first time."
The book, titled "Six Days," is expected to be released in Spring 2018.
North Korean missiles demolish a U.S. aircraft carrier and several jets in the latest stark imagery to come out of Pyongyang in a Sunday propaganda video, a day before the regime's foreign minister said President Trump's latest comments were "a declaration of war."
The 90-second video released on the DPRK Today news site one day after U.S. jets flew over waters east of North Korea, began with images mocking Trump before flashing to a submarine-launched missile striking the USS Carl Vinson, Yonhap News Agency reported.
The aircraft carrier is seen exploding and disintegrating into pieces.
Meanwhile, words flash across the screen warning America against considering military action: "Should F-35, B-1B or the Carl Vinson lead the U.S attack, they will head to the grave in that order."
VIDEO: INSULTS ESCALATE BETWEEN TRUMP AND NORTH KOREA

Another clip showed a medium-range ballistic missile shooting down a B-1B bomber and an F-35 fighter jet, engulfing both in computer-generated fire.
Those same B-1B bombers stationed in Guam and F-15C Eagle fighter escorts flying out of Okinawa, Japan entered international airspace over waters east of North Korea on Saturday.
U.S. Defense Department spokeswoman Dana White said the mission was to send North Korea a clear message Trump has many military options to defeat any threat.
North Koreas foreign minister Ri Yong-ho said on Monday that North Korea had the right to shoot down U.S. bombers in its airspace and Trump's statements were "a declaration of war" against the country.
"Last week Trump claimed our leadership declared war on ... this is clearly a declaration of war on all members states," Ri said.
"The whole world should remember U.S. declared war on our people.
The U.N. charter stipulates right of defense in charter."
"Since the U.S. declared war on our country, we have the right to shoot down U.S. bombers in our airspace," Ri said.
"Since he made declaration of war, all options are on the operation table," he added.
Trump and North Korea's war of threats escalated last week when Trump called Kim Jong Un a rocket man [who] is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.
The president first debuted the nickname in a tweet days earlier, but made a firm stance against Kim and the hermit kingdom during his address to the United Nations General Assembly.
He's since changed the nickname to "little rocket man."
North Koreas reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life, Trump said, vowing to totally destroy the dictatorship.
WHY TRUMP'S ECONOMIC MOVES AGAINST NORTH KOREA MAY DO MORE TO TAME KIM THAN ANY INSULT

Kim fired back by calling the president a mentally deranged U.S. dotard who had denied the existence of and insulted me and my country in front of the eyes of the world.
Both leaders have dubbed each other a mad man."
On Saturday, Ri said Trumps rhetoric makes a missile attack on the entire U.S. mainland inevitable all the more.
"None other than Trump himself is on a suicide mission," Ri told the General Assembly on Saturday.
"In case innocent lives of the U.S. are lost because of this suicide attack, Trump will be held totally responsible."
Fox News' Ben Evansky and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Six days after a devastating 7.1 earthquake rocked Mexico City, family members of those still trapped under the rubble continue to hold out hope.
In Mexico City alone, at least 186 people are confirmed dead, and at least 44 are still missing or unaccounted for at the last official search and rescue site, an office building located at 286 lvaro Obregn Avenue.
"We're going to wait here, we're not moving, and we hope that you are alive, we believe that you are alive and we're expecting you with open arms."
said Armando Albarrn, whose niece is still believed to be trapped under the collapsed structure.
THE LATEST: MEXICO QUAKE DEATH TOLL RISES TO 319

Albarrn is one of over 100 family members and loved ones staged outside the building, most of which have constructed camps with tents, complete with tarps hanging overhead to keep them dry as the rain falls periodically each day.
While survival for those trapped becomes a faint reality after several days without food or water, it is not an impossibility.
The Los Angeles County Fire Department is one of many international aid entities that has deployed its task force to Mexico City to assist in rescue and recovery efforts.
STRONG NEW MANGITUDE 6.1 EARTHQUAKE ROCKS JITTERY MEXICO

"The will of a human being to live outweighs anything else," said U.S.
Task Force leader Dennis Cross, who told Fox News he has seen miracles happen before.
Cross was deployed to Haiti in the beginning of 2010, and said that he and his team rescued survivors up to nine days after being initially trapped.
"We're never going to stop searching, and we don't give up hope until we think there is no further chance of survivability.
We're not there yet," Cross said.
Albarrn and the families of the missing aren't there yet, either.
"We are not giving up," he said, "and we hope not just that my niece survives, but all the people survive."
next

prev

Four asylum-seekers have gone on trial in Germany accused of executing 36 members of the Syrian security forces while they were members of the Nusra Front extremist group.
Prosecutors say the four men killed their victims  police officers, security officials and soldiers  at a garbage site in the Syrian city of Tabqa in March 2013.
The defendants appeared before Stuttgart's regional court Monday on charges of war crimes, murder and membership in a foreign terrorist organization.
The men, who came to Germany as refugees, were identified as 28-year-old Abdul Jawad A. K.; 24-year-old Abdoulfatah A.; 26-year-old Abdulrahman A.
A.; and 35-year-old Abdalfatah H. A.
Their surnames weren't released because of German privacy rules.
next

prev

From a distance you can see elegantly carved wooden boats bob gently in the waters that surround this coastal town at Bangladesh's southern tip.
Across a sliver of the shimmering waters of the Bay of Bengal is Myanmar.
These boats and this place can mean both hope and tragedy for the Rohingya Muslims who are desperate to escape the violence that has engulfed their lives in Myanmar's Rakhine state.
High tide or low, day or night, rough waters or calm, when they can find a boat, the Rohingya take their chance to flee to Bangladesh.
More than 430,000 have left Myanmar in less than a month.
Not everyone makes it.
Mounds of earth in the cemeteries of this little town are the only reminders of Rohingya who drowned as their boats capsized, often just a few heartbreaking meters away from the safety of the shore.
"Ten children are buried in that grave," said Nur Islam, the imam of the town's main mosque, pointing to a large mound covered in thorny branches to keep dogs and other animals from disrespecting the graves.
"Here there are nine women buried," he added, pointing to another large mound.
A solitary pile of earth, away from the other graves, holds an infant whose body washed ashore days after the boat carrying him capsized.
"They get off the boat.
The water looks shallow.
They don't know how deep it is and they drown," Islam said.
"It's very painful ... such small children."
The persecution that the Rohingya Muslims face in Myanmar is not new and neither is their presence here.
They've been coming in smaller waves since the 1980s when Myanmar stripped them of their citizenship rights.
But never has the influx been as massive as the one that started Aug. 25 when a Rohingya insurgent group staged deadly attacks on dozens of police posts in Myanmar.
The reprisal has been swift and brutal.
Myanmar officials describe is as a clearance operation aimed at militants.
The U.N. calls it ethnic cleansing.
Bangladesh, an impoverished nation too small for even its own population, is struggling with the sheer number of refugees and is trying to put all of them in one place.
In Shah Porir Dwip, loudspeakers announce that no one should shelter refugees in their homes.
There is no room for them in this crowded and dirt-poor town.
They need to go to refugee camps further up the coast in Cox's Bazar, but first they must find the money to pay for the nearly 60-kilometer (37-mile) journey.
The Rohingya who can afford it try to bring a cow or a few goats with them.
There's a thriving market in buying livestock at throw away prices from these desperate people.
A cow bought from a newcomer can be sold for twice as much in the markets of nearby Teknaf.
On a recent day, only one tiny boat was able to make its way to Shah Porir Dwip.
It dropped off three emaciated and exhausted men some ways from the shore.
They walked over kilometers (miles) of sand at low tide, under the scorching sun.
Their bodies were bent under the weight of their belongings and their lips were cracked and parched from thirst.
They said many others were waiting to cross but were being stopped by soldiers.
"Myanmar army is shooting at them.
They are not letting them go," Mohammad Amir said as sweat poured down his face.
Abdul Haq watches such desperation play out daily.
Since fleeing Myanmar in 2012 he's lived in a row of shanties near a jetty in Shah Porir Dwip that's home to Rohingya who came here during earlier waves of violence.
They do menial jobs here  day labor or pulling cycle rickshaws.
On a clear day he can look across the water and see the coast of Myanmar.
But he also sees the smoke from burning villages.
He knows the dangers that lurk there.
"My soul cries for my home," he said.
___

360 degree video: https://youtu.be/fZC3sq6bxV4
A lawyer representing a suspect accused of kidnapping a British model says the entire case may have been fabricated as a publicity stunt.
The case involves British model Chloe Ayling, who said in August she had been lured to Milan for a phony photo shoot, then drugged, stuffed into a suitcase and held by criminals who offered to auction her online unless her agent payed a 300,000 euro ($355,000) ransom.
The scheme was said to have been carried out by a little-known group called "Black Death."
One suspect, 30-year-old Lukasz Herba, is in custody in Italy, having been arrested after delivering Ayling to the British Embassy on July 17, six days after she was reportedly kidnapped.
He denies wrongdoing.
His brother, Michal Herba, was in Westminster Magistrates Court on Monday fighting extradition to Italy.
His lawyer, George Hepburne Scott, said there were numerous problems with the case that suggest the model's claims were fabricated.
Scott said "there is a real risk that the entire case is a sham" that fooled Italian detectives.
"This case has a unique set of anomalies which might lead to the conclusion that the Italian authorities have been duped and that their process has been abused," he said.
Among the weaknesses he cited with the case was the claim that the model and her kidnapper went shoe shopping while she was being held.
A ruling on extradition is expected Friday.
Investigators in southern Russia are looking into a possible cannibalism case.
The Investigative Committee said Monday that it detained a 35-year-old man in the city of Krasnodar who is suspected of killing a woman in an abandoned house earlier this month after a drunken brawl.
Investigators said construction workers found a phone on the scene with the man's photographs posing with body parts.
The investigators said they searched the man's home and found body parts in jars of brine and pieces of meat of "an unknown origin" in the kitchen.
The investigators, however, stopped short of calling it a cannibalism case, saying that they are still testing the samples.
The statement follows local media reports about several cases of cannibalism in Krasnodar.
European Central Bank head Mario Draghi has underlined his concern about the recent rise in the euro's exchange rate.
Draghi said Monday that "the recent volatility in the exchange rate represents a source of uncertainty which requires monitoring."
The euro has risen from $1.05 at the start of the year to around $1.19.
A further increase could weigh on exports from the eurozone and restrain its ongoing economic recovery.
Draghi had also expressed concern about the euro at his Sept. 7 news conference.
Draghi told the European Parliament's economic and monetary affairs committee that the current economic recovery was "firm and broad-based."
The ECB is expected to outline at its Oct. 26 meeting how it will start phasing out its bond-buying stimulus worth 60 billion euros ($71 billion) a month.
A Ghanaian man has gone on trial in Germany accused of raping a camper at knife-point in front of her boyfriend days after being denied asylum.
Prosecutors say the 31-year-old man attacked the woman April 2 while the couple was camping near the western city of Bonn.
He was arrested five days later and police say DNA evidence linked him to the crime.
The defendant, who wasn't identified due to German privacy rules, also had a loudspeaker he had stolen from the couple.
The man, who denies allegations of rape and aggravated extortion, went on trial Monday in Bonn.
Details of the case prompted outrage in Germany, where high-profile crimes committed by asylum-seekers have fed a public debate about immigration in recent years.
The Latest on Mexico City's major earthquake (all times local):

7:20 a.m.

Mexican officials say the death toll in last week's magnitude 7.1 earthquake has risen to 324.
Civil Defense chief Luis Felipe Puente says in a tweet that 186 of the deaths occurred in Mexico City.
Seventy-three died in the state of Morelos, 45 in Puebla, 13 in the State of Mexico, six in Guerrero and one in Oaxaca.
The quake was centered in Puebla state, southeast of Mexico City.
At least 96 people also died in a magnitude 8.2 earthquake that hit off the southern Mexican coast on Sept. 7.
The Latest on the Syrian conflict (all times local):

3:15 p.m.
The main U.S-backed Syrian force fighting the Islamic State group says a Russian airstrike on a gas field it recently captured from the extremists killed one of its fighters.
A statement issued by the Syrian Democratic Forces said two other fighters were wounded in Monday's strike in the eastern province of Deir el-Zour.
It says the attack occurred on the Conoco gas field, which the SDF captured from IS on Saturday.
On Sept. 16, the SDF said a Russian airstrike wounded six of its fighters, but Moscow denied carrying out the attack.
Russian officials did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the latest allegation.
___

1:30 p.m.

Syrian state media say two people have been killed in shelling on President Bashar Assad's ancestral village of Qardaha.
Syria's state broadcaster said Monday the village has been shelled by "terrorists" for two days straight.
It says two people were wounded Sunday.
Qardaha is located in the coastal mountains of northwest Syria.
Assad's father, the late president Hafez Assad, was born in Qardaha.
He was buried there in 2000.
The village has been largely spared from the violence of Syria's civil war, which grew out of demonstrations in 2011 against the Assad family's four-decade rule.
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights also reported the shelling, saying two civilians have been killed.
next

prev

A referendum on whether Catalonia should secede from Spain is putting intense pressure on the region's police officers, who feel caught between their oath to the nation's constitution and loyalty to local leaders who have vowed to create a new European state.
Francesc Vidal is a 16-year veteran of the force known as the Mossos d'Esquadra.
He describes the Oct. 1 referendum as a "train collision" between Spanish authorities who want to stop what they consider an illegal vote and Catalan separatists who insist the balloting go forward.
Vidal says officers don't want to be the middle because they take orders from both sides.
Catalan leader Carles Puigdemont has pledged to declare independence should secessionists manage to stage the secession referendum and win it.
A British lesbian has won a landmark legal challenge allowing her residency in Hong Kong as a dependent, in a ruling Monday that could make it easier for gay couples to move to the Asian financial center.
Hong Kong's Court of Appeal found that the woman, identified only as QT, faced discrimination from an immigration department ruling denying her the right to live and work in Hong Kong because the city does not recognize same-sex marriage.
The three-judge panel's decision, which overturned a lower court's judicial review, caps a yearslong fight by QT and her partner to be given the same treatment as tens of thousands of other expatriate workers who are allowed to bring their heterosexual spouses to the former British colony.
QT and her partner married in a civil partnership in England in 2011 and moved later that year to Hong Kong after QT's partner was offered a job.
She applied for a dependent's visa but was rejected on the grounds that she was not considered a spouse and since then has spent her time in Hong Kong on a tourist visa.
Under the immigration policy, "each foreign worker is only entitled to apply to bring one spouse to join him or her in Hong Kong," one of the judges, Justice Andrew Cheung, said in the ruling.
"Whether that spouse is of the same sex or different sex is neither here nor there.
In terms of quality, whether the spouse is heterosexual or gay cannot possibly be relevant."
Hong Kong is home to a sizable contingent of expatriate workers employed as bankers, lawyers, teachers, accountants, pilots and other skilled staff.
In a sign of the case's importance to Hong Kong's financial community, 12 global banks and fund managers including Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley threw their support behind QT and sought to present their views to the court.
The Palestinian prime minister says he will travel from the West Bank to the Gaza Strip next week in a step toward reconciliation with the rival Hamas militant group.
A spokesman for Prime Minister Rami Hamdallah says he will convene his Cabinet in Gaza next Tuesday.
Hamas has controlled Gaza since ousting Fatah-led forces of the Palestinian Authority in 2007.
The takeover has left the Palestinians torn between two governments, with President Mahmoud Abbas' Palestinian Authority in charge of autonomous areas of the Israeli-occupied West Bank.
Reconciliation attempts have repeatedly failed.
Hamas welcomed Hamdallah's announcement on Monday, and the United Nations offered to help.
Hamas offered this month to cede control to Abbas' government.
But many thorny issues, including the fate of Hamas' armed forces, remain unresolved.
next

prev

Leaders of the nationalist, anti-migrant Alternative for Germany pledged Monday to use their third-place election finish to conduct robust but "constructive" opposition, and sought to allay fears raised by Jewish groups and others about their entry into parliament.
However, long-running cracks at the top of the party, known by its German acronym AfD, erupted in public when co-chairwoman Frauke Petry  one of AfD's best-known faces but sidelined over recent months  stormed out of a press conference.
That left three other top party leaders chuckling and smirking, but briefly speechless.
"An anarchic party ... can be successful in opposition, but it cannot make voters a credible offer for government."
Petry said, adding she wouldn't join AfD's parliamentary caucus.
She walked out of the room without taking questions.
Co-chairman Joerg Meuthen apologized "on behalf of the party" for the episode, saying it was "not discussed with us," before moving on.
Persistent leadership infighting so far has failed to do the party significant harm.
Germany's mainstream parties have all ruled out teaming up with AfD, which is one of six caucuses in the new parliament after winning 12.6 percent of the vote.
Including the seat Petry won, it has 94 of the 709 seats.
Co-leader Alice Weidel told reporters their plan was to provide "constructive opposition."
"We have a very clear mandate from the voters, and there is no time to waste," she said.
AfD drew support from people who previously voted for Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservative bloc and from many who didn't previously vote at all.
To a lesser extent, it also drained support from the center-left Social Democrats and others.
Its success followed a campaign focused on criticism of the chancellor's decision to open the country's doors to more than 1 million asylum-seekers over the past two years.
It performed most strongly in Germany's formerly communist and less prosperous east, capturing 22.5 percent of the vote there  27 percent among male voters.
In the eastern town of Bautzen, which saw clashes last year between residents and migrants, Merkel's Christian Democratic Union lost a seat it had held for more than 25 years to AfD, whose candidate received 32.8 percent of the vote.
Bautzen is located in Saxony, Petry's home state and long an AfD stronghold.
Across the state, AfD narrowly topped Merkel's CDU to become the strongest party, winning 27 percent of the vote.
Petry turned AfD from opposing eurozone bailouts to a focus on migration after she ousted the party's founding leader in 2015, but recently had been sidelined after urging AfD to exclude members who express extremist views, with the aim of attracting moderate voters.
While she said she wouldn't join the parliamentary group, she didn't say she was leaving the party.
Co-leader Alexander Gauland sought Monday to allay fears expressed by Jewish groups about his party's success.
The Anti-Defamation League also called the AfD result a "disturbing milestone," saying "its leaders have made anti-Semitic statements and played down the evil of the Nazi regime."
Among other statements that have caused concern, AfD's leader in Thuringia state, Bernd Hoecke, called for a "U-turn" in the way Germany remembers its Nazi past, while Gauland himself has repeatedly insisted "we have the right to be proud of the achievements of Germans soldiers in two world wars."
Still, Gauland insisted that "there is nothing in our party, in our program, that could disturb the Jewish people who live here in Germany."
He added that he hadn't met with Jewish leaders, but was "ready at any time" to do so.
He also dismissed concerns that AfD's rise was somehow linked to a wider swing to the right in Europe and the U.S.

French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and the Netherlands' Geert Wilders both were quick to congratulate AfD on entering parliament.
"I don't think that these parties are at all comparable, and that there is some kind of a mobilization of nationalist parties across Europe," Gauland said.
"Mr. Trump has neither helped us nor hindered us, because we have different problems than the Americans, and Ms.
Le Pen's defeat in the end didn't hurt us because France has different problems."
He added that Austria's right-wing Freedom Party is "the only party where there is a closer relationship."
_____

Rising reported from Berlin
next

prev

A Pakistan court will indict the finance minister over graft allegations after authorities found he had assets that did not match his reported income.
A lawyer for Ishaq Dar says the finance minister appeared in court Monday after flying back from London and will be indicted on Wednesday.
The lawyer, Amjad Pervez, says his client denies any wrongdoing.
Dar was swept up in the corruption case stemming from documents leaked from a Panama law firm, which appeared to show that senior officials, including former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, had undisclosed assets.
Pakistan's Supreme Court disqualified Sharif in July, forcing him to step down.
Sharif, who is due in court Tuesday, has denied any wrongdoing.
It was not immediately clear if Dar would also be forced to step down.
An Indonesian court has sentenced an Islamic militant to life imprisonment over an attack on a church that killed a 2-year-old girl and injured three other children.
The attacker was captured by local residents after throwing a Molotov cocktail at Oikumene Church in Samarinda, the provincial capital of East Kalimantan province on the island of Borneo, in November last year.
Two-year-old Ade Intan Marbun died from her burns.
The militant, Juhanda, who uses a single name, was previously convicted in 2011 of terrorism offenses but was released in July 2014.
Four co-conspirators were also sentenced Monday to prison terms of up to seven years.
The trees of the International Cacao Collection grow here in an astonishing diversity of forms, bearing skinny cacao pods with scorpion-stinger protrusions, spherical green pods that could be mistaken for tomatillos, oblong pods with bumpy skin resembling that of the horned lizard  all in colors ranging from deep purple to bright yellow.
Within each of these pods are seeds that yield something beloved by billions: chocolate.
But despite this diversity, few cacao varieties are widely cultivated, and that's a problem: Like many other crops, cacao is under constant threat from diseases and environmental challenges exacerbated by our tendency to grow only a few varieties with similar or identical genetic traits and defects.
More from New York Times:

Fueled by Trump's tweets, anthem protests grow to a nationwide rebuke

Puerto Rico's agriculture and farmers decimated by Maria

Birds beware: The praying mantis wants your brain

"Most varieties produced worldwide belong to a narrow set of clones selected in the forties," said Wilbert Phillips-Mora, who oversees this collection of 1,235 types of cacao trees and heads the Cacao Genetic Improvement Program at C.A.T.I.E.
(an acronym in Spanish for the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center).
A narrow gene pool means that most commonly cultivated varieties of cacao are susceptible to the same diseases, and these blights can spread quickly.
Cacao production brought relative prosperity to the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica until the late 1970s, when farmers began to notice that pods on their trees were developing a fuzzy white fungal coating and eventually mummifying.
The fungus  Moniliophthora roreri, also called monilia or frosty pod rot  soon spread around the country, and by 1983 Costa Rican exports of dry cacao beans had declined by 96 percent.
The industry here has never recovered.
The calypso singer Walter Ferguson even wrote about it.
"Monilia, you've come to stay," he sang, "and all you bring is hungry belly/You say you no going away, 'til you bring me down to poverty."
Folk songs about fungi may be rare, but the devastation to the region's primary industry was profound.
And though the Costa Rican outbreak is history, the fungus continues to spread.
"For me, the cacao industry is in permanent risk, because intentionally or unintentionally this disease could be spread in just one flight," said Dr. Phillips-Mora.
Increasing travel and commerce in the developing world have provided new pathways for infection.
He believes the most recent confirmed outbreak  in Jamaica in September 2016  may have been the result of marijuana traffickers moving covertly between Costa Rica and Jamaica, unwittingly grabbing infected cacao pods as snacks for the boat ride home.
That outbreak was the first confirmed outside of Latin America, and it has demonstrated the fungus' ability to survive more distant travel than previously known.
Other cacao-producing regions, such as West Africa  the source of virtually all the cacao that ends up in mass-produced products like Hershey's Kisses and M&M's  may face similar outbreaks.
Even without frosty pod rot, cacao is a problematic crop.
Other diseases  witches' broom, black pod, cacao swollen-shoot virus  also afflict the tree.
Climate change promises to further exacerbate problems with tropical plant pathogens.
These difficulties make cacao ever less appealing to producers; yields and profits are low, and the average cacao farmer is aging.
The next generation seems to be abandoning the family business.
Yet demand for chocolate is rising, especially as gargantuan markets like China and India indulge a taste for what used to be a treat primarily for American and European consumers.
A chocolate shortage may be on the horizon.
That is where Dr. Phillips-Mora's project comes in.
The genetic diversity of cacao, on full display in the International Cacao Collection at C.A.T.I.E., may avert a chocolate crisis.
Gold surged Monday after North Korea's foreign minister accused U.S. President Donald Trump of declaring war.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York on Monday the U.S.' alleged declaration gives North Korea the right to strike back.
Actions could include shooting down U.S. bombers, he said, even when they are not inside the North Korean airspace.
Gold futures for December delivery rose 0.72 percent on the news at $1,306.70 an ounce in a sudden move following the foreign minister's comments.
They were trading down by about 0.05 percent beforehand.
The price of bitcoin rose sharply on Monday with its price spiking up 7 percent Monday morning, according to CoinDesk market data.
The price of the cryptocurrency is up nearly 300 percent year to date.
It was unclear what was behind Monday's sudden move higher.
Bitcoin is still under the $4,000 level, which it broke through after JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon said on Sept. 12 that the cryptocurrency is a "fraud" that will eventually blow up.
In addition, recent reports said regulators in China have ordered bitcoin exchanges to close hurt the digital currency's price.
Brent crude oil hit a new 2017 high on Monday, continuing a rally fueled by improving demand and expectations that producers will extend output cuts.
International benchmark Brent rose $1.52, or 2.7 percent, to $58.38 by 11:25 a.m.
ET, having touched the highest level since July, 2015.
U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude remained well below its 2017 high, but topped $51 a barrel for the first time in four months.
It was last trading up $1.06, or 2.1 percent, at $51.72.
OPEC and other oil exporters declined on Friday to extend their agreement to limit production in a bid to drain a global glut that has weighed on prices for three years.
However, some analysts believe it's only a matter of time before the cartel agrees to an extension.
"The market anticipates that OPEC and non-OPEC [exporters] are going to continue with their production cuts through 2018," said Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates.
OPEC has now achieved its goal of flipping Brent crude's market structure into so-called backwardation, said Francisco Blanch, head of commodities and derivatives research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
In backwardation, prices for future delivery are cheaper than the cost of oil for immediate shipment.
Backwardation signals the market is tightening and discourages oil traders from stockpiling barrels.
However, analysts warned that exporters whose budgets are dependent on oil revenues will be tempted to pump above agreed-upon levels as Brent crude nears $60 a barrel.
"Even at these prices levels, they're still bleeding cash.
So they want more money and I think the incentive to stay together starts to decrease," Blanch told CNBC's "Squawk Box" in Asia.
The market is increasingly focused on the demand outlook, after the International Energy Agency and OPEC both raised their forecasts for global oil consumption, analysts tell CNBC.
"In spite of increases from U.S. shale production, that kind of increase is enough to sop up" excess oil supply, Lipow said.
Resurgent production from U.S. shale oil producers, who use advanced drilling methods, has played a major role in delaying the market rebalancing.
Higher oil prices this year have encouraged American drillers to pump more, but there are signs the U.S. recovery is slowing.
After aiming its weapons at the U.S. capital, North Korea's propaganda is now presenting the destruction of military targets, U.S. fighter jets and supercarriers.
A video released by the state-controlled website DPRK Today Sunday opens with images of President Donald Trump giving a speech on the occasion of the U.S. Air Force's 70th Anniversary at Joint Base Andrews, with ominous music playing in the background and text branding Trump a "madman."
The video then moves on to show ground-launched and submarine-launched North Korean missiles targeting the U.S. F-35 and B-1B aircrafts as well as the USS Carl Vinson, a nuclear-powered flattop.
More from Newsweek:

'Islam conversion saved my life': Al-Qaeda hostage in Mali recounts six-year desert ordeal

'Nazis out:' Germans protest far-right AFT Party's historic election result

Why Donald Trump is like ISIS, according to London Mayor Sadiq Khan

Doctored images show both the jets and the vessel going up in flames, as well as the burning of an American flag on the backdrop of white crosses typical of American cemeteries.
"Should F-35, B-1B and the Carl Vinson lead the U.S. attack, they will head to the grave in that order," the subtitles read, translated by the South Korean news agency Yonhap.
The latest release of propaganda images came a few hours after the U.S. flew B-1B Lancer bombers from the airbase in the U.S. island of Guam, along with F-15C Eagle fighter escorts from Japan, into international airspace over waters east of North Korea in a show of force.
The U.S. Department of Defense said it was the furthest north of the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) U.S. fighter of bomber aircraft have flown off the North Korean coast this century.
This showed "the seriousness with which we take DPRK's reckless behavior," the Pentagon said in a statement, referring to North Korea with its official name, Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK).
"This mission is a demonstration of U.S. resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," the statement added.
Tensions between the U.S. and North Korea continue to flare as the North Korean and the American leaders exchanged insults and threats over the past week.
Speaking at the U.N. General Assembly Saturday, North Korea foreign minister Ri Yong Ho warned that Trump's labeling of Kim Jong Un as "rocket man" made "our rockets' visit to the entire U.S. mainland inevitable."
saying that if Ri echoed "the thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
The North Korean state-controlled media have been using Trump's aggressive rhetoric to undermine his position as a world leader and justify Pyongyang's pursuit of nuclear weapons.
An article published by the state-run KCNA news agency Monday quoted Ri Chang Yong, head of a department of Pyongyang University of Foreign Studies, calling Trump "not a politician but a villain."
The article then concluded: "The DPRK, possessed of the strongest nuclear weapons and military hardware, will surely and mercilessly exterminate those Trump-led war maniacs."
North Korea says it has a right to shoot down US bombers 9 Mins Ago | 01:19

North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused President Donald Trump of declaring war, saying that gives the rogue regime the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Pyongyang could target planes even when they are not flying in North Korean airspace, Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York.
"The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country," he said.
"Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country," he added.
On Saturday, American bombers flew in international airspace east of North Korea in a symbolic show of military force.
The comments come amid an escalation of rhetoric between Pyongyang and Washington as the international community tries to end North Korean nuclear and missile programs.
Trump's first appearance at the United Nations General Assembly last week prompted a string of harsh warnings and threats.
It culminated Saturday in Trump saying the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, who Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
On Monday, Ri claimed that comment was a declaration of war.
Ri also inflamed tensions following Trump's defiant remarks to the U.N. last week.
On Saturday, he called Trump "President Evil" and claimed that economic sanctions will not deter Pyongyang's pursuit of nuclear weapons and a "balance of power with the U.S."

Trump on Tuesday said the U.S. would have "no choice but to totally destroy North Korea" if it is forced to defend itself or its allies.
The president and his top advisors have repeatedly said they could take military action in response to a string of missile tests, but prefer a diplomatic resolution.
On Thursday, Trump signed an executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
He hopes the measure will help to cut off Pyongyang's funding sources for its nuclear and missile programs.
The central bank in China  North Korea's only major ally  also told its banks to strictly implement U.N. sanctions.
The American sanctions followed unanimous economic sanctions packages imposed by the U.N. Security Council.
Trump has said he supports the "complete denuclearization" of North Korea.
Reuters contributed to this report
It could be said that the underlying winner of Germany's election Sunday was ultimately the Alternative for Germany (AfD) party, which saw the largest increase in voter share of all of the country's main political parties.
In fact, while the anti-immigrant, anti-euro party saw a 7.9 percentage point increase from the last election in 2013 (the year the AfD was formed), Germany's main parties  Merkel's conservative CDU/CSU alliance and its former coalition partner, the Social Democratic Party (SDP)  both saw their votes fall dramatically.
As the AfD enters Germany's parliament for the first time, here are five things you need to know:
Berliners voted to keep the historic Tegel airport open even after a new international hub is completed, creating a headache for the German capital's government, which wanted it closed.
Tegel sprang up in just 90 days in 1948 to support the Berlin Airlift, a huge operation to ship supplies and thwart a Cold War Soviet blockade.
It is much-loved by many Berliners and business travellers for its proximity to the city center.
Berlin's government will now have to rethink its plans to close Tegel after some 56 percent of voters supported the non-binding referendum on Sunday, the same day as Germany's federal election, to reconsider the proposal.
This had envisaged the closing of Tegel six months after the Berlin Brandenburg International (BER) airport - a grand project bedeviled by repeated construction and planning problems - finally starts operating.
It still has no fixed opening date.
Michael Mueller, Berlin's mayor said the result created a "very, difficult situation" and told rbb radio he would now talk to the airport's state owners about taking a different approach that could be "legally and financially challenging."
Iraqi Kurds cast ballots on Monday in their autonomous region and in a wide sweep of captured territories on whether to seek independence from Baghdad, a historic vote that has also raised tensions and fears of instability.
The referendum is non-binding and will not immediately bring independence, but it would mark a definitive stance by the Kurds to break away, and Kurdish leaders say they will use a "yes" vote to press for negotiations with Iraq's central government to win statehood.
From Istanbul, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened military intervention in Iraq in response to the vote, stressing that Kurdish independence was unacceptable to his country and that this was a "matter of survival."
The Iraqi Kurdish push for independence has been made even more combustible because Kurdish forces captured extensive territories in fighting with the Islamic State group in the past year.
Those territories run from northwest Iraq across the country to the Iranian border on the east  including the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.
Baghdad claims those territories, but the Kurds say they are part of their zone and residents there are participating in Monday's vote.
More than 3 million people are expected to vote across the three provinces that officially make up the Iraqi Kurdish autonomous region and in the disputed territories, according to the Independent High Elections and Referendum Commission, the body overseeing the vote.
Lines began forming early in the day at polling stations across Irbil, the Kurdish regional capital.
Tahsin Karim was one of the first people to vote in his Irbil neighborhood.
"Today we came here to vote in the referendum for the independence of Kurdistan," he said.
"We hope that we can achieve independence."
The European Central Bank is becoming more confident that inflation will rise back to its target but the euro zone still requires substantial stimulus, ECB President Mario Draghi said on Monday.
The medium term outlook is also clouded by uncertainty, including from the recent volatility in the euro's exchange rate, Draghi told the European Parliament's committee on economic affairs in a speech that is largely consistent with the bank's September policy statement.
"Overall, we are becoming more confident that inflation will eventually head to levels in line with our inflation aim, but we also know that a very substantial degree of monetary accommodation is still needed for the upward inflation path to materialize," Draghi said.
Mark Cuban: Trump should have said nothing about national anthem protests in NFL 2 Hours Ago | 02:00

Mark Cuban, owner of the NBA's Dallas Mavericks, told CNBC on Monday that President Donald Trump should have said nothing about NFL players protesting during the national anthem.
"Why even comment before you know what you're talking about?"
the billionaire investor said in an interview on "Squawk on the Street."
Cuban said the NFL has always been involved in politics at some level.
Trump's criticism on Twitter of players who kneel during the national anthem sparked angry protests around the NFL on Sunday.
The president on Sunday told reporters the protests were "very disrespectful to the flag," and that owners should do something about them.
He also insisted his position was "not about race," even as much of the criticism directed at him carried racial overtones.
"Just because you have a Twitter account doesn't mean you have to use it," Cuban said.
"Just because you can say something, doesn't mean you should."
When asked whether he thinks the president is going to apologize, Cuban said: "The president is not going to apologize.
Are you kidding me?
The president should read a book."
"If he dishes it out, he's got to be able to take it," Cuban added.
Cuban, who supported Democrat Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election, has criticized Trump over issues and Trump has blasted Cuban likewise.
Trump on Sunday called for fans to demonstrate their own form of protest  by boycotting NFL games unless the league fires players who kneel during the national anthem.
"This is nothing new.
We want to listen to the players' feedback," Cuban said.
"The only thing that's changed now is the president is getting involved."
Cuban said he has always tried to be open with players about what their feelings are and how they want to participate in the community.
The firestorm started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last season to protest the treatment of African-Americans in the United States.
He is no longer in the NFL.
Here's what a former ambassador thinks would happen if the US strikes North Korea 16 Mins Ago | 00:53

The Trump Administration continues to pound away at North Korea, insisting military options are on the table, but so far the threats have not stopped Pyongyang from pursuing tests of its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles.
"The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea," said President Donald Trump at a speech to the UN General Assembly (UNGA) in New York on Tuesday.
"Rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime," he said.
"Rocket man' refers to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un.
Trump warned last month that "all options are on the table" after the North launched a missile designed to carry a nuclear payload over U.S. ally Japan.
That was followed by Pyongyang's 6th nuclear weapons test on September 3rd, and 12 days later, North Korea launched a second missile over Japan, just days after the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) imposed new sanctions against the North.
Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley told CNN on Sunday that the UNSC has "pretty much exhausted" all its options, but indicated Defense Secretary Jim Mattis "has plenty of military options."
And on CBS, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said, "If our diplomatic efforts fall through, our military option is the only one left."
Earlier this month, Mattis said the U.S. will answer any threat from North Korea with a "massive military response, a response both effective and overwhelming."
On Monday, when asked at a news conference about whether the U.S. has military options for North Korea that would not put Seoul at risk, Mattis said, "Yes there are.
But I will not go into details."
Meanwhile, Kim Jong-un has vowed to continue the North's weapons programs, saying the country is getting close to its goal of "equilibrium" to match U.S. military force.
The Cipher Brief's Kaitlin Lavinder asked Ambassador Joseph DeTrani, the former special envoy for Six Party Talks with North Korea and the former director of the National Counterproliferation Center, if he thinks a military solution is possible  and what the consequences would be.
The Cipher Brief: As the bellicose rhetoric from both the U.S. and North Korea continues, the U.S. is signaling that all options  including a military one  are on the table.
Is there a realistic military solution?
Ambassador Joseph DeTrani: Given North Korea's provocative and threatening behavior, with 16 missiles launched this year, including an ICBM [intercontinental ballistic missile] and IRBM [intermediate range ballistic missile], a likely hydrogen bomb test, their sixth nuclear test, and the vitriolic hyperbole from Pyongyang, it's understandable that "all options are on the table" in dealing with North Korea.
Ideally, talks that halt the North's nuclear program and pursue comprehensive denuclearization is the preferred option.
However, if North Korean leader Kim Jung-un eschews talks, then we should be prepared to intercept and destroy any ballistic missile that poses an imminent threat to the U.S. or its allies.
A declaratory statement should be sent to Pyongyang making it clear that any "imminent threat" will generate a pre-emptive strike, and Pyongyang should think twice about any response to this pre-emptive strike.
In response, it's possible Kim Jung-un would provoke an attack on the Northern Limit Line (NLL)  similar to the Cheong An incident in 2010, when the North attacked a South Korean frigate, killing 46 sailors  or attack a South Korean island, as they also did in 2010.
TCB: What would a military solution look like?
What would be the consequences?
DeTrani: If the U.S. were to conduct a "preventive" attack against a base or facility to deny the North the ability to attack, then I think they would retaliate in a more ferocious way, using conventional weapons to attack Seoul, at a minimum.
TCB: Would the U.S. risk this  an attack on a close ally, Seoul?
DeTrani: I can't foresee North Korea attacking Seoul if we intercepted a missile posing an imminent threat to the U.S. or South Korea.
This is an internationally accepted responsibility of any government to protect his/her country and people.
Seoul and Tokyo should understand and concur with this approach, given that missile defense systems are in South Korea and Japan.
To not respond to an imminent threat is the height of weakness, confirming we're a paper tiger.
This would then encourage more aggression from North Korea if we didn't have a pre-emptive policy of intercepting and destroying any missile viewed as an imminent threat.
TCB: What should the U.S. do?
DeTrani: More missile defense deployments, enhanced joint military exercises with South Korea (which should also include Japan), additional sanctions and secondary sanctions, and more information into North Korea, with a declared pre-emption policy, is the approach I would recommend, if North Korea refuses to halt its nuclear and missile programs and enter into exploratory discussions with the U.S. and possibly South Korea.
This interview was originally published on The Cipher Brief.
Kaitlin Lavinder is a reporter at The Cipher Brief.
Follow her on Twitter @KaitLavinder.
For more insight from CNBC contributors, follow @CNBCopinion on Twitter.
Uber Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi admitted the firm "got things wrong" Monday in a plea to London after the ride-hailing app was stripped of its license to operate in Britain's capital city.
"While Uber has revolutionized the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way," Uber's CEO said in an open letter published in the U.K.'s Evening Standard newspaper Monday.
Khosrowshahi added: "On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologize for the mistakes we've made."
His apology follows a decision by London transport authority Transport for London (TfL) to revoke the taxi start-up of its license to operate in the city last Friday.
The former Expedia CEO, who has served as Uber's CEO for almost a month, said Uber would "work with London to make things right."
TfL's shock decision not to renew Uber's private hire vehicle license dealt a huge blow to the start-up.
Uber said it would appeal the decision, and has reportedly hired a top British lawyer, Thomas de la Mare, to fight its case.
Relations between Iran and the U.S. grew more strained over the weekend after the Middle Eastern country successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 kilometers.
The Khorramshahr missile test took place Saturday; Iran state media said it could carry several warheads.
The weapon was first seen during a military parade Friday, during which Iran's President Hassan Rouhani promised to boost his country's missile arsenal.
"We will increase our military power as a deterrent.
We will strengthen our missile capabilities," Rouhani said Friday in a speech broadcast on state television, according to Reuters.
The country's determination to expand its missile capabilities will remain a main source of friction between Washington and Tehran, according to Torbjorn Soltvedt, principal MENA analyst at Verisk Maplecroft.
"As Iran's missile program is beyond the scope of the 2015 nuclear agreement, both sides have seized on the issue to assert their national interests while still operating within the confines of the deal," he told CNBC via email.
"For Rouhani, reasserting Iran's ballistic missile ambitions provides cover against hard-line critics that see the nuclear agreement as a capitulation to world powers."
Following the missile launch Saturday, the U.S. imposed new unilateral sanctions on Iran, saying the test violated a UN resolution, according to Reuters.
On Sunday, President Donald Trump signed a presidential order that kept travel restrictions on Iran, along with seven other countries.
The order blocks nearly all visas from Iran except for students and exchange visitors.
On Saturday, Trump criticized the missile test on social media.
Soltvedt said the missile tests allow Trump to expand sanctions against the country without violating the Iran nuclear deal.
"The net result is that Washington and Tehran are accusing each other of not living up to the spirit of the nuclear agreement," he said.
President Trump has previously criticized the agreement.
During his address to the UN last week, he said the U.S. could not abide by the agreement if it provides cover for a nuclear weapons program.
Soltvedt added that missile tests would strain relations with Iran's Middle East neighbors.
"There is no doubt that Iran is in the ascendancy in the geopolitical battle for influence in the Middle East.
Iran's ongoing efforts to boost its ballistic missile capabilities will only heighten the sense of insecurity among regional rivals," he said.
"While Iran's more assertive regional stance has put it on a collision course first and foremost with Saudi Arabia and the U.S., the pivotal role it plays in the Syrian conflict is also increasingly raising tensions with Israel."
Apple investors are now suffering from an unusual condition: loss of money.
After surging as much as 42 percent from the end of 2016 to the beginning of September, Apple has seen a bracing series of losses.
The stock slid 5 percent last week alone, for its worst weekly performance in more than a year.
Recent concerns have revolved around Apple's new iPhone 8 and iPhone X products, which were unveiled on Sept. 12.
Mild reviews for the iPhone 8 and talk of short lines for the product appear to have taken some wind out of the stock's sails.
Yet Wall Street analysts, always a group somewhat predisposed toward looking on the bright side, say the lack of enthusiasm could actually be a bullish indicator.
"Any Weakness for Early Sales of iPhone 8 Could Be a Case of 'Short-term Pain for Long-Term Gain,'" Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson advised in a Friday note.
He explained that "potential buyers may wait for iPhone X," and that since the X will tend to be about $250 more expensive than the 8, "a mix shift toward iPhone X, even to the detriment of near-term iPhone 8 units, is positive for Apple."
The future seems a little more uncertain for the euro following the outcome of the German election.
The common currency has been under pressure since markets opened Monday after provisional results showed a weakened Angela Merkel and a surging far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party that gained its first seats in parliament.
The currency fell 0.6 against the dollar for the session, trading at $1.1872 at around 1:00 p.m. London time.
Traders seem divided when it comes to the euro's performance in the near term, but point out that the European Central Bank (ECB) will still be the ultimate underlying factor for the currency.
"The reaction in the EUR and in the credit markets is predictable, but with the ECB still a powerful force in the European debt markets, the moves are unlikely to turn violent," Stephen Gallo, European head of FX strategy at BMO Financial Group, said in a note.
Sunday's vote surprised many traders with a more fragmented German parliament.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote, down from 41.5 percent in the previous election.
The pro-business FDP party, which placed fourth with 10.7 percent of the votes, has said it is open for coalition talks with Merkel's CDU.
The Greens are set to join coalition talks too, which could ultimately form Germany's first four-party government in decades.
However, coalition talks will not be easy.
At the same time, the far-right AfD beat pollsters' predications and got 12.6 percent of the vote share.
The ad, created with The VIA Agency, was produced using photochromic ink.
"As part of L.L.Bean's 'Be an Outsider' campaign, The VIA Agency wrote a manifesto to serve as an invitation to all people to join L.L.Bean outside, because outside is where we all belong," a spokesperson for The VIA Agency told CNBC in an emailed statement.
Bean is positioning itself as an outdoor brand focused less on individual pursuits and more on family and friends enjoying the outdoors, according to a report by the Associated Press.
Innovation in advertising is often connected to new technology online, such as automatic placement of ads on websites.
But this isn't the first time a brand has experimented with more traditional press or print formats.
In January, Mars brand Maltesers put braille on a poster at a London bus shelter as part of its effort to promote inclusivity in advertising, while in April the Indian government released a coffee-scented stamp encouraging people to mail their families.
Bean, founded in 1912 by Leon Leonwood Bean, has annual sales of $1.6 billion, according to its website.
The family-run, privately-held company does not release full financial information.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said he would dissolve parliament's lower house on Thursday for a snap election, seeking a mandate to stick to his tough stance towards a volatile North Korea and rebalance the social security system.
Abe, in power for five years, had been expected to call the election for next month to take advantage of improved support and disarray in the opposition camp.
"I'll demonstrate strong leadership and stand at the forefront to face a national crisis," Abe told reporters, mentioning Japan's fast-ageing population and North Korea.
"This is my responsibility as leader and my mission as prime minister."
Natsuo Yamaguchi, the head of Abe's junior coalition partner the Komeito party, said he understood the election would be on Oct. 22.
Abe said he would redirect some revenue from a planned sales tax hike in 2019 to child care and education rather than paying back public debt, although he added he would not abandon fiscal reform.
Rebalancing the spending would offset the potential negative effect on consumption from the tax rise, he said.
The final turbine for the Nordsee One offshore wind farm has been installed and commercial operations are set to commence by the end of this year.
Tim Kittelhake, managing director and COO of Nordsee One, said in an announcement at the end of last week that turbine installation had been completed within seven months.
The site is located in the North Sea, around 40 kilometers to the north of the island of Juist.
The scale of the project is significant, with the turbines measuring approximately 150 meters from sea level to blade tip.
According to Nordsee One its 54 turbines will generate, on average, 1.2 billion kilowatt hours per year and supply the equivalent of around 400,000 average homes with green electricity.
This will help to save more than one million tons of CO2 when compared with a "conventional" coal fired plant.
"Most of the turbines are already feeding green electricity into the grid," Pierre Lestienne, managing director and CFO of Nordsee One, said in a statement.
"We are very pleased with our progress so far.
With another project milestone behind us, we remain focused on advancing the project into commercial operation."
Europe is something of a world leader in offshore wind.
According to the Global Wind Energy Council, the U.K. is home to the largest offshore wind market in the world, closely followed by Germany.
Earlier this month, Dong Energy announced it had been awarded a contract to construct the world's largest offshore wind farm, Hornsea Project Two, off the east coast of England.
The development will have enough capacity to power more than 1.3 million homes in the U.K.
Swiss power grid maker ABB will pay $2.6 billion for General Electric's Industrial Solutions business, it was announced Monday.
Chief executive Ulrich Spiesshofer told CNBC he is "very confident" that ABB can build the unit back to a strong position.
Spiesshofer said the unit, which has an EBITDA margin of only 6 percent, has strong roots and brand legacy, but the problem is it was a non-core business in GE's portfolio.
"You know what happens to non-core businesses.
They don't get enough oxygen and they don't prosper.
For us, this business is absolutely right in the sweet-spot," he told CNBC's Squawk Box.
"We are very confident that, jointly with the GE Industrial Solutions team, we will shape this business back to a strong position."
GE's Industrial Solutions business makes circuit breakers, switchgear, components for lighting control and power supply equipment, which overlaps with ABB's portfolio.
The unit had sales of $2.7 billion in 2016, but its operating earnings before interest, taxes and amortization are just 6 percent of sales, compared to ABB's 15 percent operating margin.
Spiesshofer said he had received many calls from customers to congratulate him on the acquisition and saying ABB is the right home for the business.
He also addressed how ABB will boost profit margins at the unit.
"We need to live up to that now and the way we will do it is harmonize the product and technology portfolio.
We have leading edge solutions on the digital side," he said.
"Secondly, we have an overlapping footprint and we will do some restructuring in this context, but we will do this in a responsible way like ABB always does it and we will try to find a home for the very good people at GE in the growing parts of our business."
ABB expects $200 million of annual cost benefits from the acquisition deal and anticipates $400 million of integration costs.
The Zurich-based company's stock price rose 0.42 percent on news of the deal.
Reuters contributed to this report.
Berlin might be over 4,000 miles away from Washington DC but Sunday's election in Germany and forthcoming negotiations over a future coalition government will be closely monitored in the U.S. capital.
Analysts, however, predict that the "world views" of U.S. President Donald Trump and German Chancellor Angela Merkel will remain at odds.
Merkel's conservative Christian alliance won the largest share of the vote, with 33 percent, although it lost a lot of ground to the far-right, anti-immigrant and anti-euro party Alternative for Germany (AfD), which garnered 12.6 percent of the vote and is to enter the German parliament for the first time.
Merkel's CDU/CSU alliance has vowed not to form a coalition government with the AfD, meaning that it has to turn to smaller parties for support, namely the pro-business Free Democratic Party (FDP) and the Greens.
Domestically, and in Europe, the coalition parties that form a government could determine how much Germany is willing to support ever closer political and economic union in the euro zone (the FDP is not keen).
On an international level though, Merkel's foreign policy stance towards the U.S.  one of trying to get Washington to stick to an international climate agreement drawn up in Paris in 2016 and maintaining transatlantic trade and investment  is likely to stay the same, analysts and diplomats noted.
British food delivery company Deliveroo has raised $385 million in private funding, it said on Sunday, as it prepares for expansion to help it compete with publicly traded rivals such as Delivery Hero and Just Eat.
The funding values the business at more than $2 billion and will allow Deliveroo to enter new markets, enlarge its technology team and expand its concept of delivery-only restaurants run out of centralized kitchens it operates, the company said.
The number of Deliveroo locations has risen by 60 percent over the past year and it now operates in more than 150 cities in 12 countries, a spokesman said.
He declined to comment on its next expansion moves.
Besides Britain, where it operates in 60 cities and towns, it also offers food delivery in eight European countries, Australia, Hong Kong and the United Arab Emirates.
It's closest rival is the Foodora unit of Germany's Delivery Hero.
The new investment in Deliveroo is led by funds associated with T. Rowe Price Associates and Fidelity Management & Research, the company said.
Existing investors DST Global, General Catalyst, Index Ventures and Accel Partners are also making follow-on investments, increasing their positions in the company, Deliveroo said.
"There is a lot of room to rethink how we eat," said Martin Mignot, a partner at venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has invested in four previous Deliveroo funding rounds.
The company has raised $474.6 million since it's founding in 2012, according to venture funding data from Crunchbase.
Like taxi app Uber, which was stripped of its London operating license on Friday, Deliveroo has been criticized by unions that say it is exploiting staff by not offering basic protections.
Some of its delivery riders are pursuing legal action to push for workers' rights.
Deliveroo has previously said it would give its self-employed riders insurance and sick pay if the government changed the law so that it could offer some, rather than all, the entitlements enjoyed by full-time staff members.
Deliveroo increased revenue by more than 600 percent last year while operating losses mounted, albeit at a slower rate, parent company Roofoods said in a Sept. 20 regulatory filing.
Revenue grew to 128.56 million pounds ($173 million) but delivery costs and administrative expenses resulted in an operating loss of 141.05 million pounds, up 367 percent year on year, it said in a filing with UK Companies House.
Though the company trumpeted a $2 billion-plus valuation, that remains less than half those of its listed rivals.
Delivery Hero's market capitalization is 5.95 billion euros ($7.11 billion) while UK-based Just Eat's valuation is 4.66 billion pounds.
Although Merkel's CDU/CSU alliance won the highest share of the vote, it has not won enough that it can govern alone, meaning it will have to find coalition partners from smaller parties in order to form a four-party government not seen in Germany for decades.
On a practical level too, the Bundestag has 30 days to convene following the election and then the parliament itself must elect the chancellor, although this will be Merkel, as Germany's biggest party always puts forward its leader as the candidate for chancellor.
The CDU/CSU's former junior coalition partner, the SPD, said it would quit the "grand coalition" of the last four years and would instead go into opposition following its dismal election result.
Calling the result a "bitter loss," Reuters reported, Martin Schulz, formerly head of the European parliament, said he would stay on as the party's leader.
However, after what has been generally viewed as a lackluster election campaign, whether that position is tenable in the long-term remains to be seen.
All political parties ruled out a coalition with the nationalist AfD party and setting aside the SDP, the most likely coalition is the so-called "Jamaica" option with the CDU/CSU approaching the pro-business Free Democratic Party (FDP), which gained 10.7 percent of the vote, and the Greens, which gained 8.9 percent.
The process of trying to form a governing coalition could take months, according to Societe Generale's research team Guy Stear and Brian Hilliard  and could affect the wider direction of the European Union (EU).
"With a poor election result for the CDU and SPD we expect the forming of a new coalition to take longer than usual.
In addition, with strong results for both the AfD and the FDP, we suspect that Germany's EU policies will be more cautious and restrictive, irrespective of which coalition takes office," they said in a note Monday.
Unilever has agreed to buy cosmetics firm Carver Korea for 2.27 billion euros ($2.71 billion) from Goldman Sachs, Bain Capital and the company's founder as it expands its beauty and personal care business.
The Anglo-Dutch company announced the deal on Monday, saying Carver was the fastest-growing skincare business in South Korea, through sales of its A.H.C brand.
Unilever said the range includes "Eye Cream for Face", along with essences, toners, moisturizers, masks, and sun protection.
Bain and Goldman Sachs jointly bought a roughly 60 percent majority stake in Carver for around $500 million last year, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday.
Carver Korea, Bain Capital and Goldman Sachs were not available for immediate comment.
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Monday ordered his cabinet to compile new economic stimulus measures in a package worth around 2 trillion yen ($17.80 billion) by the end of the year.
Speaking at a meeting with his top advisory panel, Abe said the package should focus on subsidising education, child-care costs, and on boosting corporate investments to improve productivity.
Abe is expected to announce a snap election later on Monday to take advantage of improved ratings and disorganized opposition parties, and the stimulus package could be a way to lure voters during the election campaign.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote, provisional votes showed, down from 41.5 percent in the previous election.
The pro-business FDP party, which placed fourth with 10.7 percent of the votes, has said it is open for coalition talks with Merkel's CDU.
The Greens are set to join coalition talks too, which could ultimately form Germany's first four-party government in decades.
In German politics, it's usually the case that the largest party chooses the chancellor, and the second largest group picks the next post.
As such, the FDP could opt for the Finance Ministry and put an end to Schaeuble's eight-year reign.
The future for Schaeuble is "the question" from a market perspective, Carsten Nickel, managing director at Teneo Intelligence, told CNBC Monday.
"In the end, I think there is probably very little alternative to Schaeuble, right now, at least in terms of individual politicians.
There's nobody who really comes to mind as the key person who would challenge him for that role.
I wouldn't be surprised if he stays on in the end," he said.
If Germany were to lose Schaeuble as Finance minister, the current momentum for further euro zone integration could also be damaged.
"What it means for Germany's stance on further euro zone integration is too early to tell.
If the FDP will join a coalition, expect a much slower integration process and many cold showers for (French President Emmanuel) Macron," Brzeski said, referring to plans from Macron to deepen economic and financial ties.
"I don't think that the FDP can implement its own views, but it will definitely slow down any new steps towards more integration," he added, given the FDP's view goes against what Macron and other EU leaders want to implement.
The 75-year-old Schaeuble hasn't given any signs that he is ready to retire from politics.
If he loses the Finance Ministry, Merkel could still appoint him as the next speaker of the German Parliament.
The role would include fewer powers from those that Schaeuble currently has, but it could become more important now that the right-wing Alternative for Germany (AfD) party won its first ever parliamentary seats.
Ireland will leverage on its imminent position as Europe's only English-speaking country to secure big economic gains, according to Frances Fitzgerald, the country's deputy prime minister.
As the sole country sharing a land border with the United Kingdom, Ireland is widely expected to be the EU member worst-hit by Britain's exit from the European Union in 2019.
However, the country's economic outlook remains positive, according to Fitzgerald, who is also the country's minister for enterprise and innovation.
In fact, Britain's absence from the EU could increase Ireland's attractiveness as a destination for foreign businesses and investors  many of whom are already coming to the country, she told CNBC's "Squawk Box" on Monday.
One region that could significantly strengthen economic ties with Ireland is Asia, according to Fitzgerald.
"We see ourselves as the perfect post-Brexit solution for Asia-Pacific countries," she told CNBC, adding that the number of Asian companies investing in her country has increased significantly.
"We see banking, technology and aviation companies all interested in doing business in Ireland  the only English-speaking country in the EU now, with the departure of the U.K.," said the minister.
She emphasized that Brexit was not Ireland's choice, but the EU's decision.
China may witness its first local government bond defaults, although the timing was uncertain, Fitch Ratings said in a press release issued on Sunday, amid persistent concerns over high debt levels in the world second largest economy.
These bonds were issued by Chinese local government financing vehicles (LGFVs), which were created by local authorities to bypass restrictions on borrowing.
There are concerns about the potential for a wave of defaults in China due to high local government debt, which could impact the financial markets and potentially spread a wave of contagion across the global economy.
The LGFVs have also borrowed from the Chinese shadow banking sector as official channels dried up due to the government's crackdown on leverage.
Shadow banking is a broad category of banking-like services from non-traditional players; it can include loans from non-financial companies as well as investment products.
It is outside the bounds of normal banking regulation, so it largely goes unregulated.
No Chinese LGFV has defaulted to date on its publicly traded debt so far, but the first defaults "are becoming more likely and will probably trigger a repricing of the market," Fitch said.
Fitch's warning comes after S&P Global Ratings downgraded China's long-term sovereign credit rating by one notch last week to A+ from AA-, citing increasing risks from the country's rapid build-up of credit.
Moody's Investors Service downgraded China's sovereign credit rating in May.
Despite the risk of LGFV bond defaults, Fitch said the overall risks are likely limited due to the government's "pervasive ownership and influence" across the financial system.
But the ratings agency said widespread defaults remained a tail risk, or a potential scenario with only a small probability of occurring.
"The authorities continue to rely on local government investmentsupported by LGFVsto hit economic growth targets, and have a broad spectrum of policy tools to limit default contagion," Fitch added.
"The authorities are in a position to prevent systemic defaults," said Fitch, including using the last resort of bailing out the LGFVs using fiscal resources.
The central government has been trying to "disentangle" LGFVs from public-sector balance sheets to contain financial risks through means such as instituting debt ceilings and providing swaps to convert LGFV debt into explicit government debt, Fitch noted.
LGFV debt, however, has continued to rise with 4 trillion yuan ($605 billion) worth of LGFV bonds issued since 2015 still outstanding, equivalent to 5.4 percent of China's gross domestic product.
Chinese authorities will likely to allow the lower quality LGFV bonds to fail, Fitch said.
"These would be LGFVs deemed most financially stretched by the authorities, and consist mostly of lower-tier (non-provincial) LGFVs, particularly those that mix commercial with policy activities, such as property with urban development," said Fitch.
China has already allowed some state-owned enterprises to default in the last few years, as the central government seeks to instill greater budget and market discipline.
Unprecedented is an overused word in financial markets  but this time it's justified.
Since the global financial crash, central banks have engaged in a global economic support operation like no other, with the world's three key organization's gorging on $15 trillion dollars of bond buying to save financial markets from themselves and prevent a recession that might have been  well, unprecedented!
As of this week's Federal Reserve meeting, we are now witnessing an unprecedented unwinding of those purchases.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen says the U.S. central bank will liquidate $10 billion of the bonds on its $4.5 trillion balance sheet every month.
The Fed chair believes the U.S. economy is strong enough to take it, and markets are robust enough to withstand the modest implicit tightening of monetary conditions, even as inflation is still short of the Fed's target.
The Fed has been preparing the markets for this move for months, in the hope that a gradual shift from quantitative easing (QE) to quantitative tightening (QT) will barely cause a ripple in the monetary pond.
But not everyone is convinced that the consequences of this move are obvious or predictable.
Back in July, JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon warned of potential disruption saying: "We act like we know exactly how it's going to happen and we don't."
In other words, QT is a "known unknown"  there's a lot of good guess work but no one has done it before.
Angela Merkel's conservative bloc will be the largest party in the next German parliament, but provisional election results point to a worse-than-expected majority for the German chancellor.
Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and its Bavarian sister-party the Christian Social Union (CSU) won 33 percent of the vote.
It would make them the largest parliamentary group, but that is down from 41.5 percent in the last election in 2013 and lower than recent polling.
It is also their worst result since 1949, according to Reuters.
Speaking after the exit polls, Merkel said her party had hoped for a better result at the federal election but was happy that it had achieved the main goals of the campaign.
She vowed to win back voters from the nationalist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party.
The center-left Social Democrats (SPD), which are currently in a coalition with Merkel, slumped to 20.5 percent - a new post-war low.
Party leader Martin Schulz said it was a "bitter day" for Germany's social democrats.
He added that the result meant it was clear the party should go into opposition and he would seek re-election as party leader in December.
