(CNN) Such is the state of world affairs that it was news Monday when Sarah Sanders, the White House press secretary told reporters that, no, the US has not declared war on North Korea.
There had been some confusion among the North Koreans.
As CNN's Zachary Cohen reported Monday:

North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho on Monday accused US President Donald Trump of declaring war on his country by tweeting over the weekend that North Korea "won't be around much longer."
"Last weekend Trump claimed that our leadership wouldn't be around much longer and declared a war on our country," Ri said, according to an official translation of his remarks to reporters in New York.
"Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make all self-defensive counter measures, including the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers at any time even when they are not yet inside the aerospace border of our country," Ri said.
But it's a funny thing, how the US government works, despite being engaged in numerous armed conflicts costing hundreds of thousands of American lives, the US hasn't actually declared war on another country since 1942, when the US declared war on Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania during World War II.
In fact, the US has only declared war 11 times in its history , according to the US Senate website.
Six of those times had to do with World War II, two of them with World War I and then war with Great Britain in 1812, war with Mexico in 1846 and war with Spain in 1898.
Why doesn't the US declare war anymore?
It's a power Congress has largely ceded to the President.
The Constitution grants Congress the ability to declare war in Article 1, Section 8.
But presidents don't really have to wait for Congress with the more broad interpretation of executive authority that has developed around the executive branch.
When they do feel they need congressional authority, they have been more likely to seek an authorization for the use of military force.
Even that has become more perfunctory in recent years.
Three successive US presidents have used the 2001 Authorization For the Use of Military Force against terrorism to prosecute military action in Afghanistan and in other terrorist hotspots.
A separate Authorization for the Use of Military Force was passed in 2002 to authorize the second Iraq War.
Lawmakers are loathe to take difficult votes on military force, however they do, to some extent, control the President's ability by controlling the national purse strings.
They could, conceivably, choke off funding for a war.
CNN contributor and University of Texas constitutional law professor Stephen Vladeck said it's a bit too simplistic to simply say the US doesn't declare war anymore.
"In fact, it's a bit more complicated, and has a lot to do with the international movement toward prohibiting aggressive/offensive war, with the idea being that declarations of war raise international law concerns that more limited use-of-force authorizations don't," he said in an email.
"There's also the related point that a declaration of war triggers a whole bunch of standby statutory authorities that Congress doesn't usually like to activate, whereas a more limited use-of-force statute doesn't."
The North Koreans could be forgiven for misinterpreting Trump's bellicose pledge to bring "fire and fury" against them if they continued to threaten the US.
JUST WATCHED Trump's war of words with Kim Jong Un Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's war of words with Kim Jong Un 02:45

"North Korea best not make any more threats to the United States," Trump said in August during a meeting on opioids from his golf club in New Jersey.
"They will be met with fire and fury like the world has never seen ... he has been very threatening beyond a normal state.
They will be met with fire, fury and frankly power the likes of which this world has never seen before."
During a speech at the UN, Trump went further.
"The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea," he said.
Trump's decision could be enough for, essentially, war and North Korea should know.
It was against North Korea in 1950 that Harry Truman deployed troops without approval from Congress, setting the precedent of the modern US policy of authorizing force but not declaring war.
He committed US troops and announced the move to the nation because of a violation of UN Security Council resolutions, not Congressional action.
Louis Fisher at the Constitution Project has written about how far the US has come from the Constitutional idea of a declaration of war.
"We are not at war," Truman said during a 1950 press conference not long after committing troops.
But more than 1.7 million Americans served in Korea -- and more than 35,000 died there.
Washington (CNN) North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho on Monday accused US President Donald Trump of declaring war on his country by tweeting over the weekend that North Korea "won't be around much longer."
"Last weekend Trump claimed that our leadership wouldn't be around much longer and declared a war on our country," Ri said, according to an official translation of his remarks to reporters in New York.
"Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make all self-defensive counter measures, including the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers at any time even when they are not yet inside the aerospace border of our country," Ri said.
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Monday that the US has not declared war on North Korea, adding, "Frankly, the suggestion of that is absurd."
Sanders said it is "never appropriate" to shoot down another nation's aircraft in international waters and the administration plans to continue to protect the area.
Earlier on Monday, State Department spokesperson Katina Adams told CNN the US seeks a "peaceful denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula."
But the US military "will take all options to make sure that we safeguard our allies and our partners and our homeland so if North Korea does not stop their provocative actions we'll make sure we provide options to the President to deal with North Korea," according to Col.
Rob Manning, a Pentagon spokesman.
Asked about Ri's charge that Trump's comments were a declaration of war, Manning, said: "Our job as the Department of Defense is as you know is to make sure that the President is provided military options, we'll continue to do that, and we have a deep arsenal of military options to provide the President so then he can decide how he wants to deal with North Korea and the regime."
"We are postured and we are ready to fight tonight," he added.
The US Navy will also continue to maintain its presence near the Korean peninsula despite the latest round of harsh rhetoric and threats of a military strike from Pyongyang.
Photos: US aircraft carriers A MV-22B Osprey, from Marine Operational Test and Evaluation Squadron 1, lifts off from the flight deck of the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) on June 12, 2016.
Click through the gallery to see other US aircraft carriers.
Hide Caption 1 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Tug boats maneuver the aircraft carrier Pre-Commissioning Unit Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78) into the James River during the ship's turn ship evolution on June 11, 2016.
This is a major milestone that brings the country's newest aircraft carrier another step closer to delivery and commissioning later this year.
Hide Caption 2 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76) arrives at the U.S. Navy base in Yokosuka, a suburb of Tokyo, Japan, on October 1, 2015.
The Reagan is the fifth U.S. carrier forward deployed to Japan following USS George Washington (CVN 73), USS Kitty Hawk (CV 63), USS Independence (CV 62) and USS Midway (CV 41), according to the Navy.
Hide Caption 3 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The aircraft carrier USS Dwight D. Eisenhower (CVN 69) (Ike) transits through the Strait of Gibraltar into the Mediterranean Sea on June 13, 2016.
Ike, the flagship of the Eisenhower Carrier Strike Group, is conducting naval operations in the U.S. 6th Fleet area of operations.
It could be used to support operations against ISIS in the Mideast.
Hide Caption 4 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers A rainbow forms over the bow of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS John C. Stennis as the ship steams in the Pacific Ocean on February 3, 2015.
Hide Caption 5 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers U.S. aircraft carrier classes  U.S. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter (left) and Philippine Secretary of National Defense Voltaire Gazmin shake hands on a Marine Corps V-22 Osprey as they depart the the aircraft carrier USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74) after touring the aircraft carrier as it sailed in the South China Sea on April 15, 2016.
Hide Caption 6 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers A photo illustration of the U.S. Navy's Gerald R. Ford-class aircraft carrier USS John F. Kennedy (CVN-79).
The ship's keel laying ceremony was celebrated Saturday, August 22, 2015, in Newport News, Virginia.
The ship is expected to replace the USS Nimitz (CVN-68), scheduled for inactivation in 2025, in the Navy fleet.
The newest Kennedy will be the second carrier of that name.
The first John F. Kennedy (CVA-67) was the last conventionally powered carrier.
It was decommissioned in 2007.
Hide Caption 7 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman (CVN 75) passes under the Friendship Bridge while transiting the Suez Canal on Dec. 14, 2015.
The ship is conducting operations in the Persian Gulf, where Iran claims to have taken footage of the carrier using a drone.
Click through the gallery for more images of U.S. Navy aircraft carriers.
Hide Caption 8 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Aviation Structural Mechanic Airman V. Sek, assigned to the "Jolly Rogers" of Strike Fighter Squadron (VFA) 103, applies a Christmas decal to an F/A-18F Super Hornet in the hangar bay of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Harry S. Truman in December 2015.
Hide Caption 9 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS George Washington (CVN 73) is seen from inside its sister ship, the USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76), on August 7 off the coast of California as the two ships prepare for a "hull swap."
Over 10 days in San Diego, much of the crew of each ship will transfer to the other.
When completed, the Reagan will head to forward deployment in Japan, where the Washington had been.
The Washington will head to Newport News, Virginia, for an overhaul.
Hide Caption 10 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Sailors spell out #USA with the American flag on the flight deck of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt in the Persian Gulf in late June 2015.
When the Roosevelt leaves the Gulf sometime in October, the U.S. Navy will be without a carrier in the important region for two months.
Hide Caption 11 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Three Nimitz-class aircraft carriers USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70), top, USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76), center, and USS John C. Stennis (CVN 74) are pierside at Naval Air Station North Island near San Diego on June 12, 2015.
The Vinson has just recently returned from a 10-month deployment.
The Reagan is preparing for a move to Japan later this year and the Stennis was making a port call after steaming from its homeport of Bremerton, Washington.
Hide Caption 12 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Sailors test the countermeasure washdown system on the flight deck of the Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Dwight D. Eisenhower (CVN 69) during sea trials prior to returning to its homeport at Naval Station Norfolk in late August 2015.
Hide Caption 13 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The aircraft carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt departs Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia, on Wednesday, March 11, for a scheduled deployment.
The Nimitz-class carrier's departure was delayed for two days after marine growth clogged sea water intakes.
Divers went into the 36-degree water to clean out the intakes and allow the ship to get under way.
The cold water created a fog that made it seem the ship was in a cloud.
Hide Caption 14 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Abraham Lincoln, a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, is seen near the coast of Indonesia in 2005.
The carrier recently received a new anchor from the decommissioned USS Enterprise.
Hide Caption 15 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Lightning strikes over the flight deck of the USS John C. Stennis, another Nimitz-class aircraft carrier, as the ship moves through the Persian Gulf in 2007.
All of the Navy's 10 active aircraft carriers are from the Nimitz class, which started in 1975 with the commission of the USS Nimitz.
Hide Caption 16 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Ranger (CV-61) arrives at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, in 1993.
The Forrestal-class carrier, which featured in the movie "Top Gun," is to be scrapped this year.
Hide Caption 17 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers In this photo released by the U.S. Navy, a tugboat works alongside the decommissioned aircraft carrier USS Saratoga on Thursday, August 21, in Newport, Rhode Island.
The Navy has paid a Texas recycling company a penny to dispose of the Saratoga, part of the Forrestal-class of "supercarrier" vessels built for the Atomic Age.
The carrier was decommissioned 20 years ago.
Hide Caption 18 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Aircrew members are lifted from the flight deck of the USS John F. Kennedy during an exercise in 2002.
The ship, which was decommissioned in 2007, was the only member of its class.
Hide Caption 19 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers An F/A-18 Hornet launches from the USS Enterprise in 2007.
The Enterprise, the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, was decommissioned in 2012.
Like the John F. Kennedy, it was the only ship built in its class.
Hide Caption 20 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The Kitty Hawk class was named for the USS Kitty Hawk, seen here departing Yokosuka, Japan, in 2008.
At that time, the Kitty Hawk was the oldest carrier in the U.S. Navy and the only conventional-power aircraft carrier still in commission.
It was decommissioned in 2009.
Hide Caption 21 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Independence, a member of the Forrestal class that preceded the Kitty Hawk class, heads up the East River in New York in 1959.
Hide Caption 22 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Helicopters sit on the flight deck of the USS Saipan during the mid-1950s.
The ship was one of two members of the Saipan class.
Hide Caption 23 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Midway, namesake of the Midway class of aircraft carriers, floats off the coast of North Vietnam in 1972.
It was named after the Battle of Midway, when U.S. forces held back a Japanese attempt to take the Pacific atoll in 1942.
Hide Caption 24 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Princeton, part of the Independence class, moves off the coast of Seattle in 1944.
Hide Caption 25 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The Essex-class USS Franklin burns after being hit by a Japanese dive bomber in 1945.
The ship was named after Benjamin Franklin and nicknamed "Big Ben."
Hide Caption 26 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Wasp burns in the Coral Sea after being struck by three torpedoes from a Japanese submarine in 1942.
The ship, the only one of its class, would ultimately sink because of the damage.
Hide Caption 27 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers B-25 bombers sit on the deck of the USS Hornet in the Pacific Ocean in 1942.
The Hornet, one of three carriers in the Yorktown class, was the ship that launched the bombers flown by Air Force Lt. Col. James Doolittle and his pilots during an air raid in Tokyo four months after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
It also was involved in the Battle of Midway.
Hide Caption 28 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers Navy personnel work on board the USS Ranger circa 1942.
The Ranger was the first ship to be designed and built specifically as an aircraft carrier.
It was the only ship in its class.
Hide Caption 29 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers There have actually been two aircraft carriers named after the Revolutionary War's Battle of Saratoga.
The first USS Saratoga, seen here moving toward San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge in 1945, was one of two members of the Lexington class of aircraft carriers.
Hide Caption 30 of 31 Photos: US aircraft carriers The USS Langley, the Navy's first aircraft carrier and sole member of its class, steams off the coast of Baltimore in 1924.
Hide Caption 31 of 31

Two US defense officials told CNN on Monday that the USS Ronald Reagan aircraft carrier will conduct scheduled naval maritime exercises with the South Korean navy off the peninsula at the end of October.
While the officials said the exercises are long scheduled and not in response to recent tensions, similar exercises have prompted strong condemnation from North Korea in the past.
War of words

The ongoing war of words between the two nations also saw several new fiery salvos on Saturday, a day on which the US military, in a show of force, flew bombers in international airspace over waters east of North Korea and the detection of mysterious seismic activity refueled concerns over the rogue nation's nuclear ambitions.
Speaking at the UN on Saturday, Ri said that Trump had made a missile attack on the US mainland inevitable by insulting the dignity of North Korea.
"None other than Trump himself is on a suicide mission," Ri said in a speech at the UN General Assembly.
"In case innocent lives of the US are harmed because of this suicide attack, Trump will be held totally responsible."
Trump took on Twitter Saturday night to respond to Ri's remarks.
Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

"Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at UN If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
Trump wrote.
The US and North Korea exchanged a series of verbal volleys last week as the UN met in New York.
In his speech Tuesday, Trump threatened to "totally destroy" North Korea if the US was forced to defend itself or an ally.
He then tweeted on Friday that Kim was "obviously a madman" who would be "tested like never before."
Kim responded to the US President's speech in a rare televised statement in which he said Trump would "pay dearly" for the threats and accused him of being "mentally deranged."
Shortly after Kim's televised address, North Korea's foreign minister said his country could test a powerful nuclear weapon over the Pacific Ocean in response to Trump's threats of military action.
Military posturing

The US military also sent its own message to Pyongyang on Saturday as B-1B Lancer bombers from Guam and F-15C Eagle fighter escorts from Okinawa, Japan, flew in international airspace over waters east of North Korea, according to the Pentagon.
Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet F-22 Raptor  The twin-engine F-22 stealth fighter, flown by a single pilot and armed with a 20mm cannon, heat-seeking missiles, radar-guided missiles and radar-guided bombs, can perform both air-to-air and air-to-ground missions.
The service has 183 of the Raptors, which went operational in 2005.
Hide Caption 1 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet B-52 Stratofortress  The first versions of this long-range heavy bomber flew in 1954.
A total of 744 were built, the last of those in 1962.
The Air Force maintains 58 B-52s in the active force and 18 in the Reserve.
A single B-52 can carry 70,000 pounds of mixed munitions, including bombs, missiles and mines.
The eight-engine jets have a range of 8,800 miles.
Hide Caption 2 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet The single-engine F-35A is the Air Force's eventual replacement for the F-16 and the A-10.
The supersonic jets, which will be able to conduct air-to-air and air-to-ground attacks, are just beginning to enter the Air Force fleet.
Here, an F-35 Lightning II from the 34th Fighter Squadron at Hill Air Force Base, Utah, flys at Royal Air Force Lakenheath, England, April 15, 2017.
Hide Caption 3 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet B-2 Spirit bomber  The four-engine B-2 heavy bomber has stealth properties that make it hard to detect on radar.
Flown by a crew of two, it has an unrefueled range of 6,000 miles and can deliver both conventional and nuclear bombs.
Twenty B-2s are in the active inventory.
They joined the fleet in 1997.
Hide Caption 4 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet B-1B Lancer bomber  The four-engine jet can fly at 900 mph and carry the largest payload of bombs and missiles in the Air Force inventory.
The Air Force has 62 B-1Bs in the fleet.
Hide Caption 5 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet F-15 Eagle  The F-15 Eagle, the Air Force's main air superiority fighter, became operational in 1975.
With a crew of one or two, depending on the model, the twin-engine jets are armed with a 20mm cannon along with Sidewinder or AMRAAM missiles.
The Air Force lists 249 F-15 Eagles in its inventory.
Hide Caption 6 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet F-15E Strike Eagle  The Strike Eagle is a version of the air superiority fighter adapted to perform ground-strike missions.
With a crew of two, the twin-jet can carry and deploy most weapons in the Air Force inventory and operate in any weather.
The F-15E was first delivered in 1988.
The Air Force lists 219 in its fleet.
Hide Caption 7 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet A-10 Thunderbolt  The A-10 Thunderbolt jets, nicknamed "Warthogs," are specially designed for close air support of ground forces.
Key to their armaments is a 30mm Gatling gun.
The pilot is protected from ground fire by titanium armor, and the plane's fuel cells are self-sealing in case of puncture.
Hide Caption 8 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet RC-135U  The RC-135U Combat Sent, based at Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, provides strategic electronic reconnaissance information to the president, secretary of defense, Department of Defense leaders and theater commanders.
Hide Caption 9 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet An F-15 Eagle takes off from the Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, flight line as two E-3 Sentries are seen in the background.
Hide Caption 10 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet C-130 Hercules transport  A C-130J Super Hercules from the 37th Airlift Squadron flies over Normandy, France, June 3, 2015.
First delivered to the Air Force in 1956, the C-130 remains one of the service's most important airlift platforms.
More than 140 are still in active units, with more than 180 in the National Guard and a hundred more in the Reserve.
The C-130 is powered by four turboprop engines.
Hide Caption 11 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet OV-10 Bronco  A 21st Tactical Air Support Squadron OV-10 Bronco aircraft fires white phosphorus rockets to mark a target for an air strike during tactical air control training.
Hide Caption 12 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet A-29 Super Tucano  An A-29 Super Tucano taxis on the flightline during its first arrival, Sept. 26, 2014, at Moody Air Force Base, Georgia.
Afghan Air Force pilots trained on the planes that will be used in air-to-ground attack missions in Afghanistan.
Hide Caption 13 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet KC-135 Stratotanker  The four-engine KC-135 joined the Air Force fleet in 1956 as both a tanker and cargo jet.
It can carry up to 200,000 pounds of fuel and 83,000 pounds of cargo and passengers in a deck above the refueling system.
More than 400 of the KC-135s are flown by active, Air Guard and Reserve units.
Hide Caption 14 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet F-16 Fighting Falcon  The single-engine jet is a mainstay of the Air Force combat fleet.
It can perform both air-to-air and air-to-ground missions with its 20mm cannon and ability to carry missiles and bombs on external pods.
More than 1,000 F-16s are in the Air Force inventory.
Hide Caption 15 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet AC-130 gunships  The AC-130H Spectre and the AC-130U Spooky gunships are designed for close air support, air interdiction and force protection.
Armaments on the Spectre include 40mm and 105mm cannons.
The Spooky adds a 25mm Gatling gun.
Hide Caption 16 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet C-17 Globemaster transport  The four-engine jet joined the Air Force fleet in 1993 with a primary mission of troop and cargo transport.
Each plane can carry up to 102 troops or 170,900 pounds of cargo.
The Air Force has 187 C-17s on active duty, 12 in the Air National Guard and 14 in the Reserve.
Hide Caption 17 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet C-5 Galaxy transport  The C-5, with a wingspan of 222 feet, a length of 247 feet and a height of 65 feet, is the largest plane in the Air Force inventory and one of the largest aircraft in the world.
The first versions of the four-engine jet joined the force in 1970.
The Air Force expects to have 52 versions of the latest model, the C-5M, in the fleet by 2017.
Hide Caption 18 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet CV-22 Osprey  The Osprey is a tiltrotor aircraft that combines vertical takeoff, hover and landing qualities of a helicopter with the normal flight characteristics of a turboprop aircraft, according to the Air Force.
It is used to move troops in and out of operations as well as resupply units in the field.
The Air Force has 33 Ospreys in inventory.
Hide Caption 19 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet E-3 Sentry AWACS  AWACS stands for airborne warning and control system.
This four-engine jet, based on a Boeing 707 platform, monitors and manages battle space with its huge rotating radar dome.
The planes have a flight crew of four supporting 13 to 19 specialists and controllers giving direction to units around the battle space.
The Air Force has 32 E-3s in inventory.
Hide Caption 20 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet KC-10 Extender  Based on the DC-10 passenger jet, the triple-engine KC-10 is a gas station in the sky with the ability to carry 75 people and 170,000 pounds of cargo.
In its six tanks, the KC-10 can carry up to 356,000 pounds of fuel and dispense it while airborne.
The Air Force has 59 KC-10s on active duty.
Hide Caption 21 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet T-38 Talon  The twin-engine jet trainer, used by the Air Force to prepare pilots for the F-15E Strike Eagle, F-15C Eagle, F-16 Fighting Falcon, B-1B Lancer, A-10 Thunderbolt and F-22 Raptor, first flew in 1959.
Almost 550 are in the active force.
Hide Caption 22 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet U-2  The single-engine, single-pilot U-2 is used for high-altitude reconnaissance and surveillance.
Flying at altitudes around 70,000 feet, pilots must wear pressure suits like those worn by astronauts.
The first U-2 was flown in 1955.
The planes were used on missions over the Soviet Union during the Cold War, flying too high to be reached by any adversary.
The Air Force has 33 U-2s in its active inventory.
Hide Caption 23 of 24 Photos: In the U.S. Air Force fleet WC-135 Constant Phoenix  The four-engine WC-135 is used to fly through airspace to detect the residue of nuclear blasts.
"The aircraft is equipped with external flow-through devices to collect particulates on filter paper and a compressor system for whole air samples collected in holding spheres," the Air Force says.
It has two of these jets in the active force.
Hide Caption 24 of 24

It's the farthest north of the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that US fighters or bomber aircraft have ever flown this century, the Pentagon said.
The flight underscored "the seriousness with which we take DPRK's reckless behavior," the Pentagon said, using an acronym for North Korea's official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
"This mission is a demonstration of US resolve and a clear message that the President has many military options to defeat any threat," Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a statement.
"North Korea's weapons program is a grave threat to the Asia-Pacific region and the entire international community.
We are prepared to use the full range of military capabilities to defend the US homeland and our allies."
The bomber flights are a common response to North Korean actions that the United States and its allies perceive as hostile.
A key part of the US military's "tip of the spear," US B-1 bombers have been seen regularly over the Korean Peninsula in recent months amid escalating tensions with Pyongyang -- running regular training flights with Japanese and South Korean fighter jets that often provoke the ire of the North Korean regime.
Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the UK Labour Party, says the UN should ask for an end to "verbal hostilities," and Amanpour questions his stances on nuclear weapons and NATO.
Eric O'Neill is an attorney, security consultant and public speaker.
Formerly he was with the FBI and helped to capture the spy Robert Hanssen .
He currently runs the Georgetown Group , an investigative and security consultancy in Washington, and is the national security strategist for Carbon Black , a security company in Waltham, Massachusetts.
The views expressed here are solely those of the author.
According to US intelligence sources, the most recent test detonated a 140-kiloton nuclear device , which the North Koreans claim was a hydrogen bomb.
(That's 10 times as powerful as the atomic bomb the United States dropped on Hiroshima in World War II.)
The UN secretary-general has continuously condemned North Korea's ballistic missile launches as serious violations of UN Security Council resolutions.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump has promised new sanctions against North Korea that will allow the United States to target businesses, individuals and financial institutions that aid North Korea's regime, and the Chinese central bank has begun to implement strict UN sanctions against Pyongyang.
The missile tests are posturing by Kim Jong Un and a clear attempt to show dominance to the United States and its allies.
They are likely part of a strategy that follows Iran's playbook: Get close to developing a nuclear weapon and the rest of the world will make a deal.
But they are also a major distraction from a much bigger issue.
The true risk when it comes to North Korea is its cyberattack capabilities.
North Korea has invested heavily in cyberattack operations to disrupt its Western enemies.
Western Intelligence services blamed the 2014 attack against Sony on North Korea's spy agency, the Reconnaissance General Bureau.
North Korea is also believed to be responsible for the cyber heist at Bangladesh's central bank and the global WannaCry ransomware attack from earlier this year.
Pyongyang's cyberspies conduct low-cost, high-impact, deniable attacks around the world to harm enemies, disrupt the West and steal money.
Financial institutions are particularly at risk of theft as North Korea bleeds funds to support its nuclear program.
The goal for North Korea's cyberattack operations, beyond flying under the radar, is to inflict death by a thousand cuts -- a deliberate and organized disrupt-and-attack approach in line with the country's national strategy.
Arguably, the more money and resources North Korea can steal via cyberattacks, the stronger its kinetic military can become.
JUST WATCHED Seismic activity detected in North Korea Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Seismic activity detected in North Korea 01:16

Despite severe unemployment rates and terrible living conditions for its masses, North Korea invests in, and educates, a portion of its population in science and technology to work for its cyber military agency , which is a top-level job in the country.
Security experts and North Korean defectors have placed the numbers in North Korea's cyber army in the thousands.
Students are often handpicked to join the elite corps.
While all citizens must serve for a period of time in the military, those who serve as cyberspies continue to work in a surge capacity when the authoritarian government requires their support.
In that respect, North Korea has at its disposal a dedicated and systematically developed cyber army on call.
North Korea's most frequent target of cyberattacks is its southern neighbor.
As pressure from the West to derail North Korea's nuclear weapons program increases, Kim will likely continue to develop cyberattack capabilities in response.
In turn, the United States should develop contingency plans to respond to a direct cyberattack from North Korea.
Most critically, we should develop an escalation policy that establishes when a cyberattack will be considered an act of war.
Cyberattacks can affect more than just bank accounts or identity theft; they can shut down power transmission, turn off water and prevent aircraft control towers from safely landing planes.
The United States needs to invest heavily in cybersecurity for critical infrastructure, hardening key control elements across the country and doubling down on protections to our financial systems and power grids.
Join us on Twitter and Facebook

In North Korea and elsewhere, the battleground for future conflicts will be found in both kinetic and cyberwar theaters.
As we all continue to pay attention to Kim's nuclear missile posturing, it's important we not lose sight of North Korea's cyberattack initiatives, which have successfully disrupted the West in recent years and will continue to do so in the future if we don't take action.
Speaking at the General Debate of the U.N. General Assembly in New York, North Korea's Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said that in insulting the dignity of North Korea, President Donald Trump made a rocket attack on the United States mainland more inevitable.
Story highlights The Senate intelligence committee has met with Facebook officials in a closed session

Twitter officials are coming to talk to the panel Thursday in a closed session

(CNN) Sen. Mark Warner says the "million-dollar question" still unanswered about the Facebook election ads sold to Russian-linked accounts was how the Russians knew whom to target on Facebook.
Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence panel, told CNN the committee expects this week to begin viewing the 3,000 Russian-linked Facebook ads, which Facebook earlier this month disclosed were connected to more than 450 inauthentic accounts.
Facebook agreed last week to turn the ads over to the House and Senate intelligence committees.
Warner's burning question involves not just the content of the ads but how they were deployed.
"Did they know this just by following political news in America?
Did they geo-target both geography and by demographics in ways that at least at first blush appear pretty sophisticated?
These are the kind of questions that we need to get answered and that's why we need them in a public hearing," Warner said.
The Virginia Democrat said it was "too early to tell" whether any Trump campaign officials were associated with the ads.
Read More
(CNN) Eman Abdul Atti, once believed to be the "world's heaviest woman," died on Monday due to complications from heart disease and kidney dysfunction, according to a statement from Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
The 37-year old Egyptian woman weighed 1,102 pounds (500 kg), her family reported, prior to undergoing weight reduction surgery at Saifee Hospital in Mumbai in March.
All signs looked positive immediately following the surgery for Eman, who had lost more than 200 pounds prior to the operation.
"She is very happy, she started dancing in her bed," Dr. Muffazal Lakdawala, the surgeon who performed her laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy operation, told CNN in March.
"Her smile has come back."
The procedure involves removing part of the stomach so that only a "sleeve," roughly the size and shape of a banana, is left behind, along with the muscle that controls emptying food into the intestine.
On September 9, Eman celebrated her 37th birthday.
Early difficulties

Eman's family said Eman had weighed 11 pounds (5 kg) at birth and suffered from thyroid problems since she was a child.
The thyroid gland produces hormones that help regulate metabolism.
By fifth grade, she'd stopped going to school because she'd begun to have difficulties moving and walking.
For the past two decades, Eman has barely left her room, her family reported.
She suffered a stroke and, unable to move or communicate, her weight increased to more than 1,000 pounds.
Her health deteriorated rapidly.
Her sister created a social media campaign last year and Lakdawala responded by offering to help.
His proposed three-and-a-half year plan including two operations to help her reduce her weight to less than 220 pounds (100kg).
Eman overcame a number of hurdles to reach what her family had hoped to be a life-saving surgery in Mumbai, including an initial refusal to grant her a visa because of her inability to get to the embassy in person.
After surmounting that problem with the help of an Indian minister, she then faced the difficulty of boarding an airplane.
Egypt Air specially adapted a cargo plane to transport her to India.
Following the surgery, Lakdawala said her kidney function had improved.
"She has done well post-surgery," he told CNN in March.
At that time, he intended for her to lose another 155 to 175 pounds (70 to 80 kg) within the next couple of months.
The plan was to then send her home to Egypt and schedule a second surgery for next year.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Eman was later transferred to Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi.
There, her condition was managed by a medical team of more than 20 doctors in different specialties.
However, her heart and kidneys could no longer function.
Her family expressed appreciation for the care provided by Burjeel Hospital and the support of the people of the UAE, according to the hospital statement.
"Our prayers and heartfelt condolences go out to her family," Burjeel Hospital staff said in the statement.
(CNN) French President Emmanuel Macron has laid out a sweeping plan to relaunch the European Union, calling for greater harmonization in key policy areas and raising the prospect that the UK could rejoin a reformed bloc.
In a marathon, 90-minute speech at the Sorbonne in Paris, Macron sought to present a new vision for the EU as it reels under the rise of far-right nationalism, mass migration and Brexit.
Macron called for a joint military "rapid response force," a common defense budget, a single asylum system and an EU border force.
He said the single-currency eurozone should have its own budget and finance minister.
"The Europe we know is too weak, too slow, too inefficient, but only Europe gives us the capacity to act on the world stage in the face of the big, contemporary challenges," he said.
Macron campaigned for the French presidency on a forcefully pro-European platform.
But his vision has been complicated by the German election results and the bloody nose they inflicted on Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose cooperation will be vital to achieving his aims.
Read More
Story highlights Paartalu on playing football in North Korea

The state fired a missile over Japan during his stay

(CNN) Professional footballers often have to play in hostile and intimidating atmospheres, but Australian footballer Erik Paartalu found himself under the flight path of a ballistic missile in North Korea.
The much-traveled 31-year-old visited the secretive nation with his Indian Super League side Bengaluru FC for an AFC Cup play-off semifinal against North Korean team April 25.
JUST WATCHED Moon Jae-in's 'audacious' Olympics peace plan Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Moon Jae-in's 'audacious' Olympics peace plan 02:41

Waking up one morning in his hotel in Pyongyang, Paartalu learned of North Korea's launch of a missile over the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido.
"We got up for breakfast and on the TVs in the hotel rooms we saw, 'Breaking News, missile shot from Pyongyang over Japan,'" Paartalu recalls.
"If you would have been out the front of the hotel at 6 a.m., you would have seen the trajectory of the missile.
Read More
Voters deserted her center-right CDU party and its coalition partners, the social democratic SPD, in favor of the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) and other smaller parties.
Even for an arch pragmatist and a skilled negotiator such as Merkel, the fragmented result leaves her little room for maneuver.
Merkel's CDU/CSU grouping gained just 33% of the vote, its lowest share for decades, and needs the support of other parties to govern and pass legislation.
The SPD, which suffered its worst postwar result with 20.5% of the vote, has decided to return to opposition.
It would be unthinkable for Merkel to entertain an alliance with the far-right AfD, which stunned the German political establishment by gaining 13% of the vote and 94 seats out of 709 in the Bundestag.
That leaves a clutch of smaller parties which met the 5% threshold to enter parliament and are vying for influence.
They are, from left to right of the political spectrum, the anti-corporation Left party (9.2%), the Green party (8.9%), and the pro-business FDP (10.7%).
Katrin Gring-Eckardt (L) and Cem zdemir of the Green party speak to supporters after exit poll results were announced on Sunday.
The most likely scenario is what has been dubbed the Jamaica coalition of the CDU, the FDP and the Greens (the combination of party colors resembles the Jamaican flag).
Such an alliance would enjoy a healthy majority in parliament -- but the Greens, with strong anti-corporatist elements, and the pro-business FDP are uneasy bedfellows.
They are fundamentally opposed on key issues such as immigration and the troubled German car industry.
An alliance between the three parties is not unprecedented: A CDU-FDP-Green coalition operates in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein.
The Greens said they were open to talks Monday.
Katrin Gring-Eckardt, co-chair of the Greens, said the talks would be tough but that the party would take take the voters' mandate seriously.
"We now have talks ahead of us and certainly difficult and complicated ones, after the SPD said goodbye and see themselves in an opposition role," she said.
"But we will negotiate responsibly and seriously."
If Merkel were unable to patch together a deal with the Greens and the FDU, she could form a minority administration with the FDU alone.
But that would rely on the tacit support of other parties and would be prone to collapse.
Merkel acknowledged the poor showing for the CDU.
"Of course, overall, we had hoped for a better result," she said.
"We have a clear mandate to govern, there is agreement on that."
Frauke Petry walks out of the AfD press conference Monday.
She appeared not to rule out persuading the SPD to stay in government.
"I have heard the words of the SPD," but Germany needed a "stable" government, Merkel said at a press conference at her party headquarters in Berlin.
She said she would talk soon to the leader of her CSU sister party -- which had briefly considered splitting on Monday morning -- and to representatives of the FDP and the Greens.
Merkel insisted her party would govern with the CSU -- "there is no question about it" -- after speculation emerged about a split.
Her position was helped by the infighting in the AfD, which was thrown into disarray by the walkout of chairwoman Frauke Petry during a press conference called to celebrate its success.
But with her own power base severely weakened, she is going to find herself torn from all sides in the weeks to come.
Frida Ghitis is a world affairs columnist for The Miami Herald and World Politics Review, and a former CNN producer and correspondent.
The views expressed in this commentary are her own.
(CNN) Don't be deceived by the placid news that Angela Merkel just won re-election to Germany's top job.
Sunday's election was an earthquake.
You won't detect the tectonic movement by looking at who came in first, Merkel's conservative Christian Democratic Union, or at the second-place finisher, the center-left Social Democratic Party.
It is the strong showing of the third biggest vote-getter, the far-right nationalist populist Alternative for Germany, or AfD, which has sent jolts at home and abroad and will have lasting consequences.
As the results emerged Sunday, protests broke out across the country, with shouts of " Nazis out !"
Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel had warned voters that supporting the AfD meant putting " real Nazis " in Parliament for the first time since World War II.
The AfD denies it is a Nazi party.
But it embraces extreme right ideas, and it broke countless taboos during the election -- including arguing that Germans should be " proud of the achievements " of their soldiers in World War II -- signaling a new turn for postwar Germany.
AfD almost tripled its vote share from the last election, going from 4.7% in 2013 to 12.6% in 2017 .
This means the far right will be stronger in the legislature than at any time since the war, with more than 90 seats in the 631-seat Bundestag.
They will have staff, more offices, more money and a more influential voice than ever.
But that's just the most visible part of the impact.
Merkel has vowed to regain the votes of those who backed the AfD.
That will likely end plans for closer ties to the European Union, and it means German politics and policies will need to move to the right.
The country that we thought was inoculated, immune to nationalism after its experience last century -- nearly destroying itself and large swaths of the world by backing a populist nationalist party -- will no longer recoil from those ideas.
It is Germany that taught the world just how dangerous those ideologies are.
Now Germany has discovered that appeals of nationalism, as attacks on "the other," retain their political magnetism even on its blood-soaked soil.
That lesson will not be lost on other parties as they try to rebuild.
JUST WATCHED Merkel's party receives lowest support in years Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Merkel's party receives lowest support in years 01:59

The AfD was propelled to victory by its attacks on immigrants, Islam and refugees.
The party started as an intellectuals' anti-Euro group, criticizing the common currency and later the bailout of eurozone member countries.
When Merkel opened German doors to more than 1 million refugees, AfD found a theme that resonated.
AfD appealed to ethno-nationalism, that old "blood and soil" theme, famous from 1930s and '40s Germany, and from Charlottesville , Virginia, linking nationality to ethnicity.
One of their posters showed a pregnant white woman under a legend, "New Germans?
We'll make them ourselves."
AfD won because it was able to exploit anxiety about Muslim immigration and terrorist attacks by Islamists.
It finished second in the east , the old East Germany, where the lessons of German responsibility for the Holocaust were not taught .
Instead, East Germans were taught that the atrocities were committed by "fascists," which meant that they, communists, were the good guys, bearing no historical responsibility.
But AfD also benefited from Merkel's bold move to allow refugees.
And because voters who opposed the mass influx or other Merkel policies did not see good options.
The "grand coalition" that has been governing until now brought together the Christian Democratic Union and Social Democratic Party, center-right and center-left parties, respectively, that have each moved so far to the center that some people say they have become indistinguishable

Both parties, traditionally by far the two largest, suffered deep losses at the polls, with their worst showing since the late 1940s.
The surge of small parties at the expense of the larger ones is a sign of discontent with the status quo.
Now Merkel, whose party captured 33.5% of the seats , will set out to build a coalition to top the 50% mark in Parliament.
"The grand coalition" will end.
The Social Democratic Party, which dropped to 21.6% , said it will not join the government because doing so would produce the unthinkable, making the AfD leader of the opposition, with the right to respond to the Chancellor after she addressed Parliament, and much more resources and exposure.
So Merkel, to reach 50%, will try to cobble what's being called the "Jamaica coalition," with the colors of the Jamaican flag, the Christian Democratic Union's black, with the Greens and the pro-business rightist of the Free Democratic Party, or FDP, (yellow).
The Greens and the FDP have starkly divergent views.
Such a coalition will not only be difficult to assemble, it will also be unstable -- and that's because of the AfD's success.
We can now say goodbye to sedate and predictable politics in Germany.
In fact, the AfD already showed what may become the new normal, with a high-drama press conference on the first day after the election.
Party leaders sitting at the podium Monday were shocked along with the audience when AfD Chairwoman Frauke Petry walked out, announcing she would not sit with the rest of the party in the Bundestag, widening a rift within the AfD.
The party has been deeply divided over a number of issues, including its position regarding the Holocaust.
Those divisions are even greater now that the party is in the spotlight and, for the first time, will sit in Parliament.
Follow CNN Opinion Join us on Twitter and Facebook

Despite AfD's internal strife, its strong showing is a troubling sign for most Germans, who want an open, democratic, liberal country.
It is particularly disturbing for minorities and immigrants, especially Muslims who have been the main target of AfD's campaign.
But also Jews, who have experienced a rise in anti-Semitic attacks and rebuilt a community in Germany after the Nazis sought to eradicate Europe's entire Jewish population, killing 6 million.
Jewish groups around the world decried the AfD's strong showing

The challenge is now for Merkel and for Germany to find a way to respond not only to the AfD's success but to the vulnerabilities it revealed.
One in eight voters supported a party that said Germans should be proud of the soldiers who fought in the Nazi army.
Merkel will need the sharpest combination of her political instincts and her principled politics to keep this electoral earthquake from causing more serious damage.
Story highlights David Sterman and Peter Bergen: Revised ban is a solution to a problem that doesn't exist

Homegrown terrorism, not immigration, is the source of the problem in the US, authors say

Peter Bergen is CNN's national security analyst, a vice president at New America and a professor of practice at Arizona State University.
He is the author of "United States of Jihad: Investigating America's Homegrown Terrorists."
David Sterman is a policy analyst at New America's International Security Program.
(CNN) On Sunday, President Donald Trump issued a proclamation updating his administration's travel ban policy to apply American travel restrictions to citizens of eight countries: Chad, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria, Venezuela and Yemen.
As with two earlier versions of the travel ban, this most recent version would not have prevented a single death from jihadist terrorism in the United States since 9/11.
According to research by New America , 13 militants have committed an act of deadly violence inspired by jihadist ideology in the United States since 9/11.
None of them came from any of the total of 10 countries that have been included in the three iterations of the Trump administration's travel ban.
Of the 13 lethal terrorists, eight were born in the United States, and all 13 were citizens or legal permanent residents of the United States at the times of their attacks.
Nor would the travel ban, in any of its forms, have prevented the 9/11 attacks, which were carried out by 15 Saudis, two Emiratis, an Egyptian and a Lebanese citizen.
None of those countries are among those listed in the travel ban.
Read More
Architects are turning to one of the oldest construction materials to solve a new problem: how to build homes without damaging the environment.
A London firm says sustainable timber could help the city address its housing shortage while reducing carbon emissions.
"If you look at a building's climate footprint over 14 years, it is about 80% the building materials that go into it," Andrew Waugh, a founding partner at Waugh Thistleton, told CNNMoney.
"We need to change the way we live for climate change."
Buildings are responsible for approximately 45% of carbon emissions in the U.K. but very little attention is paid to the role of construction materials, Waugh said.
Waugh Thistleton has just built a 10-story, 17,000-square foot structure entirely of timber in east London.
They billed it as the world's largest construction made out of cross laminated timber (CLT), an engineered hardwood.
Related: Detroit's tiny homes offer a big chance for struggling residents

The material, which the architects say isn't a fire hazard, is made by squeezing together sheets of lumber using a strong adhesive and a powerful hydraulic press.
"Building up these cross layers of timber, that's what gives this panel its real unique strength," Waugh said, comparing it to cement or steel.
His firm built its first timber tower in London in 2008, showing the material could be used for more than just small houses and primary school classrooms.
Greener, lighter and saves on space

Timber is considered to be kinder to the environment than materials such as cement and steel, whose production generates large amounts of greenhouse gases and consumes lots of water and sand.
Trees, on the other hand, are a renewable resource and replace carbon dioxide in the atmosphere with oxygen.
Waugh's firm gets its timber from sustainably managed forests in Austria.
The panels it uses are relatively light compared with steel and concrete, meaning less fuel is required to transport them to construction sites.
That weight advantage also means more floors can be built on a single piece of land, providing more space for living in densely populated London neighborhoods.
Related: This tech startup is launching a hipster bus route in London

Timber buildings have thinner wall and flooring panels than their concrete counterparts, allowing larger living spaces.
The density of the panels also helps keep heat in, which saves on energy bills.
And though using timber in tall buildings might seem like a fire risk -- a particular worry in London after the deadly Grenfell Tower blaze -- CLT is fire resistant, according to Stora Enso, a producer of renewable materials.
CLT chars, rather than burns, meaning it keeps its structural integrity for longer than some other materials such as steel.
Here's a surprise: Oil is back in bull market territory.
U.S. crude futures have increased 22% since June, a comeback that has pushed prices to around $52 a barrel.
It's welcome news for OPEC, which has been trying to squeeze excess supply out of the market as it recovers from a dramatic price collapse in 2014.
There are two major factors helping to drive crude higher:

Threats in the Middle East

Major oil deposits sit beneath land in northern Iraq that is currently administered by the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Regional Government.
The Kurds, who have long sought a country of their own, cast ballots on Monday in a controversial independence referendum.
The move has angered both Turkey and Iraq.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of Turkey, has threatened to close the pipeline that carries oil from northern Iraq to the Turkish port of Ceyhan.
"We have the valve.
And the minute we shut it down, that's done," Erdogan said in a speech on Monday.
He returned to the theme on Tuesday, saying that military action was possible if Kurds don't back away from independence plans.
Turkey has a sizable Kurdish minority population.
The Kurdistan region of Iraq produces around 650,000 barrels per day, 85% of which goes through Turkish pipelines, according to FXTM.
"If the Turks decided to cut crude flows, it would create a shock which markets are currently pricing in," said Hussein Sayed, chief market strategist at FXTM.
"I think this is going to be only a temporary threat, given that independence will not happen overnight and OPEC members will quickly cover the shortage," he added.
Market balance

OPEC other major suppliers agreed in November to slash their production levels in order to support prices.
There had been chatter that OPEC would extend the cuts beyond their current expiration date of March 2018, but that has failed to materialize.
Even so, there are signs that the market is now coming into balance.
OPEC said Friday that its coalition recorded its highest level of compliance to date in August.
And demand is strengthening.
The International Energy Agency says that demand grew very strongly in the second quarter, especially in developed economies.
The agency upped its demand growth estimate for 2017 to 1.6 million barrels per day.
Popular messaging app WhatsApp has suffered serious disruption to its service in China.
According to the Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI), network measurement data suggests that Chinese internet service providers started blocking access to WhatsApp on Saturday.
Public reports on Twitter indicate that WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, became inaccessible for some people a week ago.
In China on Tuesday, users reported intermittent service on the messaging platform.
Over the last few months, there have been a number of WhatsApp disruptions in China.
WhatsApp declined to comment on its status there.
The most recent move to censor the encrypted messenger comes ahead of next month's 19th National Congress of the ruling Communist Party.
At the sensitive gathering, which takes place once every five years, the government will select leaders and determine policy priorities.
Related: WhatsApp is being targeted by China's censors, experts say

China regularly tightens its internet restrictions in the lead-up to major Communist Party meetings.
"Typically, in the run up to Party Congresses, we've seen blocking, filtering, restrictions on the internet, and that's what we've been seeing in the last couple months," said Adam Segal, director of the Digital and Cyberspace Policy Program at the Council on Foreign Relations.
The Chinese government runs a huge apparatus of internet filters known as the Great Firewall, which it uses to censor content that it deems harmful.
However, the latest move against WhatsApp is also part of a wider trend of tightening controls and restrictions under President Xi Jinping, Segal said.
China has reinstated WhatsApp access after past disruptions.
Related: Banned!
11 things you won't find in China

WhatsApp users on international SIM cards and data plans have not experienced the same problems.
The restrictions appear to specifically target China-based users.
China's internet regulator did not respond to a request for comment.
WhatsApp's difficulties cast a shadow over Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's longtime efforts to make Facebook services available in China.
Related: China says VPN crackdown aimed at 'cleaning' the internet

Big U.S. companies have been shut out of China's market for years, including Facebook (FB, Tech30), Instagram, Twitter (TWTR, Tech30), and Google (GOOG).
Some people access these services through virtual private networks, or with tools that disguise internet traffic to circumvent censorship.
But the Chinese government has been cracking down on VPNs this year.
According to Timothy Heath, senior international defense research analyst at the RAND Corporation, the Chinese government does not like that WhatsApp uses strong encryption.
"The government wants to monitor internet communications, and therefore it's trying to steer its people to use technology that can be accessed and monitored by the government," Heath told CNN Tech.
Earlier this month, WeChat, a popular chat service with hundreds of millions of users in China, notified customers of its policies to comply with government requests for information.
-- Nanlin Fang contributed to this report
Growing up in poverty, he was raised by his mother, who was in an abusive relationship.
"I ... had to grow up fast in an environment with drugs and alcohol, physical abuse," Valencia said.
"Not having stability took me down."
At 9, he started drinking.
At 14, he smoked meth, then shot heroin at 15.
Throughout his teens, he ran away, sold drugs and spent time in jail.
When he ultimately found himself sleeping in a park, with nowhere left to turn, it was a wake-up call.
In 1999, Valencia went to rehab and later entered a court-appointed treatment program.
He has been sober ever since.
Along the way, he began working on restoring classic cars, eventually opening his own small body shop in Lancaster, California.
A few years ago, neighborhood children started hanging around his garage.
As they expressed interest in the work, it gave Valencia an idea.
Today, his nonprofit, Lost Angels Children's Project, provides an afterschool program -- with a focus on classic car restoration -- for low-income, foster and at-risk youth.
"Our whole goal is to offer somewhere positive and safe where they can come and learn and be a part of something different," Valencia said.
Three times a week, about 15 children come to classes, where they learn how to build a car.
"Kids come in not knowing anything about cars.
We start from zero with teaching them how to read a tape measure, do fractions, nuts and bolts, just basic safety and tools," Valencia said.
"Then we take those skills to an actual classic car."
Every year, Valencia and his students restore a custom car and raffle the finished product at a car show.
The money they raise goes back into the program.
Since he formalized the project in 2015, Valencia has worked with about 100 young people.
The result has been a win-win, he said.
Children are learning in a positive and nurturing environment, and he's able to give them something he never had: stability.
"These kids are still kids.
They're still concerned about video games and their school.
And I love that," he said.
"It makes me happy because they're still being kids."
CNN's Allie Torgan spoke with Valencia about his work.
Below is an edited version of their conversation.
CNN: How did you discover your own passion for custom cars?
Aaron Valencia: Early in my sobriety, I met this guy who had a crazy 1954 Chevy lowrider out in Hollywood.
I mean, done to the nines.
We drove around Hollywood that night, and from that moment on, that's what I wanted to do.
I dove in head first, and it set me and my life in a whole different direction.
I didn't grow up in a mechanic household.
I didn't know how to change a sparkplug, but I started just absorbing any information I could from everywhere I could.
It just evolved.
And before long, I opened up a small shop.
CNN: What was the inspiration for this project?
Valencia: I run a shop in an industrial complex with a lot of other mechanics.
And we're always doing crazy lowriders.
There is music, and cars, and just a lot of stuff going on.
So, kids were kind of gravitating towards the shop to see what was going on.
Kids wanted to help, wanted to do something instead of just standing around.
So, we put them to work, and we started seeing how kids were excelling from it.
They needed a place to go, needed a place to be a part of something positive.
So, it was like, "Let's open up the shop and be able to teach them.
Have them come here and they can actually learn a trade, learn a lesson, learn something to better their life."
JUST WATCHED CNN Hero Aaron Valencia: The kids inspired him Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH CNN Hero Aaron Valencia: The kids inspired him 02:23

CNN: Ultimately, your program is about more than helping kids build a car.
Valencia: A lot of these kids have been through trauma, issues; and coping skills is something that no one really teaches you.
We have little round table discussions, just talking about normal topics of peer pressure, life experiences.
Not only do we work on classic cars, but we also get them into the boxing gym, and they start working out.
It's just another avenue for some of the kids who have anger management issues, have self-discipline issues.
And all the same skills that it takes to build a car and fabricate a custom car -- we do smaller art projects as well.
Recently, the kids put on their first art show at a big gallery here in Lancaster, and it was a huge success.
It's a lot more than just teaching kids how to be mechanics.
We are trying to get them to open their eyes to see a different way.
Want to get involved?
Check out the Lost Angels Children's Project website and see how to help.
To donate to Lost Angels Children's Project click the CrowdRise widget below.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
One family shares how they found a positive outlet and new look on life at CNN Hero Aaron Valencia's custom car garage in Lancaster, CA.
With all of the restaurants scattered in San Diego, such as food stands, pizza and Korean, the only difficulty you'll have will be deciding where to go to eat!
This vicinity has an ample selection of nightlife venues so you're unlikely to find yourself sitting around with nothing to do of an evening.
If the arts are your thing, San Diego is stacked with things to do and see like performing arts spots, museums and music halls.
If you're the type who loves to stay active, this city is the place for you - keep in shape with activities such as playing at the park, paddleboarding and boating.
If you're an avid shopper who loves stores like art galleries, luggage stores and watch shops, then San Diego is for you; there are so many amazing stores within walking distance that you will be doing a lot of shopping.
Thousands of people on the Indonesian island of Bali have been evacuated from their homes amid fears that Mount Agung could erupt for the first time in over 50 years.
Teresa Moreno is a scientist, at the Institute of Environmental Assessment and Water Research (IDAEA), Spanish Scientific Research Council CSIC.
Fulvio Amato is a scientist, at the Spanish National Research Council.
(CNN) Four more major Indian cities will soon have their own metro lines, the country's government has announced.
On the other side of the Himalayas, Shanghai is building its 15th subway line, set to open in 2020, adding 38.5 km and 32 stations to the world's largest subway network.
And New Yorkers can finally enjoy their Second Avenue Subway line after waiting for almost 100 years for it to arrive.
In Europe alone, commuters in more than 60 cities use rail subways.
Internationally, more than 120 million people commute by them every day.
We count around 4.8 million riders per day in London, 5.3 million in Paris, 6.8 million in Tokyo, 9.7 million in Moscow and 10 million in Beijing.
A Metro train travels between Varsova and Ghatkopar stations in Mumbai.
Subways are vital for commuting in crowded cities, something that will become more and more important over time -- according to a United Nations 2014 report, half of the world's population is now urban.
They can also play a part in reducing outdoor air pollution in large metropolises by helping to reduce motor-vehicle use.
Large amounts of breathable particles (particulate matter, or PM) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2), produced in part by industrial emissions and road traffic, are responsible for shortening the lifespans of city dwellers.
Public transportation systems such as subways have thus seemed like a solution to reduce air pollution in the urban environment.
But what is the air like that we breathe underground, on the rail platforms and inside trains?
Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Tokyo Compression"  Photographer Michael Wolf is best known for his portrayals of real life in large cities around the world.
Hide Caption 1 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Tokyo Compression"  Space, or lack of, is a reoccurring theme in his work.
Hide Caption 2 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Tokyo Compression"  "Tokyo Compression" captures rush hour in the city.
Hide Caption 3 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Architecture Density"  Wolf currently resides in Hong Kong, where this photo was taken.
Hide Caption 4 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Architecture Density"  The "Architecture Density" series looks at Hong Kong's housing problem.
Hide Caption 5 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Architecture Density"  "In both instances -- Tokyo's trains and Hong Kong's homes -- you see people in cramped and tiny spaces.
It's equally abysmal," says Wolf.
Hide Caption 6 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Informal Solutions"  In a change in tone, Wolf's most recent project, "Informal Solutions," celebrates Hong Kong residents.
Hide Caption 7 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Informal Solutions"  The series shows the creative ingenuity of some Hong Kong inhabitants as they seek new solutions in their surroundings.
Hide Caption 8 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Informal Solutions"  "You see this incredible example of urban anthropology -- dozens of seating arrangements from re-purposed broken chairs, rolls of string that have been collected so they can be reused another day," comments Wolf.
Hide Caption 9 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Paris Abstract"  Wolf's body of work also extends to European and American cities.
Hide Caption 10 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Paris Abstract"  Paris Abstract is an alternative view of Paris' rooftops.
Hide Caption 11 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Paris Abstract"  "You can photograph these places to look like a glittery metropolis ... but the reality is they are not," says Wolf.
Hide Caption 12 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Transparent City"  Wolf's "Transparent City" series looks at architecture and living in Chicago.
Hide Caption 13 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Transparent City"  The series not only shows the buildings, but also its inhabitants.
Hide Caption 14 of 15 Photos: An alternative view of some of the world's largest urban centers "Transparent City"  Some of the images, which were taken with a powerful telephoto lens, show details shots of residents' homes.
Hide Caption 15 of 15

Mixed air quality

Over the past decade, several pioneering studies have monitored subway air quality across a range of cities in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The database is incomplete, but is growing and is already valuable.
In Barcelona ... subway air had higher levels of air pollution than ... in the street

For example, comparing air quality on subway, bus, tram and walking journeys from the same origin to the same destination in Barcelona, revealed that subway air had higher levels of air pollution than in trams or walking in the street, but slightly lower than those in buses.
Similar lower values for subway environments compared to other public transport modes have been demonstrated by studies in Hong Kong, Mexico City, Istanbul and Santiago de Chile.
Of wheels and brakes

Such differences have been attributed to different wheel materials and braking mechanisms, as well as to variations in ventilation and air conditioning systems, but may also relate to differences in measurement campaign protocols and choice of sampling sites.
Key factors influencing subway air pollution will include station depth, date of construction, type of ventilation (natural/air conditioning), types of brakes (electromagnetic or conventional brake pads) and wheels (rubber or steel) used on the trains, train frequency and more recently the presence or absence of platform screen-door systems.
In particular, much subway particulate matter is sourced from moving train parts such as wheels and brake pads, as well as from the steel rails and power-supply materials, making the particles dominantly iron-containing.
New Yorkers can finally enjoy their Second Avenue Subway line after waiting for almost 100 years for it.
To date, there is no clear epidemiological indication of abnormal health effects on underground workers and commuters.
New York subway workers have been exposed to such air without significant observed impacts on their health, and no increased risk of lung cancer was found among subway train drivers in the Stockholm subway system.
But a note of caution is struck by the observations of scholars who found that employees working on the platforms of Stockholm underground, where PM concentrations were greatest, tended to have higher levels of risk markers for cardiovascular disease than ticket sellers and train drivers.
The dominantly ferrous particles are mixed with particles from a range of other sources, including rock ballast from the track, biological aerosols (such as bacteria and viruses), and air from the outdoors, and driven through the tunnel system on turbulent air currents generated by the trains themselves and ventilation systems.
JUST WATCHED How deadly is air pollution?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How deadly is air pollution?
01:08

Comparing platforms

The most extensive measurement programme on subway platforms to date has been carried out in the Barcelona subway system, where 30 stations with differing designs were studied under the frame of IMPROVE LIFE project with additional support from the AXA Research Fund.
It reveals substantial variations in particle-matter concentrations.
The stations with just a single tunnel with one rail track separated from the platform by glass barrier systems showed on average half the concentration of such particles in comparison with conventional stations, which have no barrier between the platform and tracks.
The use of air-conditioning has been shown to produce lower particle-matter concentrations inside carriages.
In trains where it is possible to open the windows, such as in Athens, concentrations can be shown generally to increase inside the train when passing through tunnels and more specifically when the train enters the tunnel at high speed.
According to their construction material, you may breath different kind of particles on various platforms worldwide.
Monitoring stations

Although there are no existing legal controls on air quality in the subway environment, research should be moving towards realistic methods of mitigating particle pollution.
Our experience in the Barcelona subway system, with its considerable range of different station designs and operating ventilation systems, is that each platform has its own specific atmospheric micro environment.
To design solutions, one will need to take into account local conditions of each station.
Only then can researchers assess the influences of pollution generated from moving train parts.
Such research is still growing and will increase as subway operating companies are now more aware about how cleaner air leads directly to better health for city commuters.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
CNN's Bill Weir visits Utuado in Puerto Rico where people are rationing crackers and relying on rain water to eat and drink after Hurricane Maria devastated the island.
(CNN) Not all heroes wear capes.
This one had on a wedding suit.
Clayton Cook had just gotten married and was getting some wedding photos taken with his wife, Brittany.
The pair was on a bridge over a lake in Victoria Park in Kitchener, Canada.
That's when Cook noticed something alarming.
A child had fallen into the water and seemed to be drowning.
The suited-up groom ran off the bridge and jumped in.
He grabbed the boy by the forearm and pulled him to safety.
Read More
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has issued a royal decree allowing women to drive cars for the first time.
CNN's Amara Walker discussed this issue with Saudi journalist and researcher Najah Alotaibi.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
It has its own flag, its own national anthem and its own language.
But many Catalans want more: They want to be independent.
Source: CNN
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump warned North Korea on Tuesday that any U.S. military option would be devastating for Pyongyang, but said the use of force was not Washingtons first option to deal with the countrys ballistic and nuclear weapons program.
We are totally prepared for the second option, not a preferred option, Trump said at a White House news conference, referring to military force.
But if we take that option, it will be devastating, I can tell you that, devastating for North Korea.
Thats called the military option.
If we have to take it, we will.
Bellicose statements by Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in recent weeks have created fears that a miscalculation could lead to action with untold ramifications, particularly since Pyongyang conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on Sept. 3.
Despite the increased tension, the United States has not detected any change in North Koreas military posture reflecting an increased threat, the top U.S. military officer said on Tuesday.
The assessment by Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, about Pyongyangs military stance was in contrast to a South Korean lawmaker who said Pyongyang had boosted defenses on its east coast.
While the political space is clearly very charged right now, we havent seen a change in the posture of North Korean forces, and we watch that very closely, Dunford told a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on his reappointment to his post.
In terms of a sense of urgency, North Korea certainly poses the greatest threat today, Dunford testified.
A U.S. official speaking on the condition of anonymity said satellite imagery had detected a small number of North Korean military aircraft moving to the Norths east coast.
However the official said the activity did not change their assessment of Pyongyangs military posture.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho on Monday accused Trump of declaring war on the North and threatened that Pyongyang would shoot down U.S. warplanes flying near the Korean Peninsula after American bombers flew close to it last Saturday.
Ri was reacting to Trumps Twitter comments that Kim and Ri wont be around much longer if they acted on their threats toward the United States.
North Korea has been working to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the U.S. mainland, which Trump has said he will never allow.
Dunford said Pyongyang will have a nuclear-capable intercontinental ballistic missile soon, and it was only a matter of a very short time.
We clearly have postured our forces to respond in the event of a provocation or a conflict, the general said, adding that the United States has taken all proper measures to protect our allies including South Korean and Japan.
It would be an incredibly provocative thing for them to conduct a nuclear test in the Pacific as they have suggested, and I think the North Korean people would have to realize how serious that would be, not only for the United States but for the international community, Dunford said.
South Korean lawmaker Lee Cheol-uoo, briefed by the countrys spy agency, said North Korea was bolstering its defenses by moving aircraft to its east coast and taking other measures after the flight by U.S. bombers.
Lee said the United States appeared to have disclosed the flight route intentionally because North Korea seemed to be unaware.
U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer bombers, escorted by fighter jets, flew east of North Korea in a show of force after the heated exchange of rhetoric between Trump and Kim.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks during a news conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, U.S., September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

The United States has imposed sanctions on 26 people as part of its non-proliferation designations for North Korea and nine banks, including some with ties to China, the U.S. Treasury Departments Office Of Foreign Assets Control Sanctions said on Tuesday.
The U.S. sanctions target people in North Korea and some North Korean nationals in China, Russia, Libya and Dubai, according to a list posted on the agencys website.
CAPABILITY TO DETER

U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will visit China from Thursday to Saturday for talks with senior officials that will include the crisis over North Korea and trade, the State Department said on Tuesday.
Slideshow (8 Images)

Evans Revere, a former senior diplomat who met with a North Korean delegation in Switzerland this month, said that Pyongyang had been reaching out to organizations and individuals to encourage talks with former U.S. officials to get a sense of the Trump administrations thinking.
Theyve also been accepting invitations to attend dialogues hosted by others, including the Swiss and the Russians, he said.
Revere said his best guess for why the North Koreans were doing this was because they were puzzled by the unconventional way that President Trump has been handling the North Korea issue and were eager to use informal and unofficial meetings to gain a better understanding of what is motivating Trump and his administration.
During a visit to India, U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said diplomatic efforts continued.
Speaking in Beijing, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang said war on the Korean Peninsula would have no winner.
We hope the U.S. and North Korean politicians have sufficient political judgment to realize that resorting to military force will never be a viable way to resolve the peninsula issue and their own concerns, Lu said.
South Korean President Moon Jae-in urged Kim Jong Un to resume military talks and reunions of families split by the 1950-53 Korean War to ease tension.
Like Ive said multiple times before, if North Korea stops its reckless choices, the table for talks and negotiations always remains open, Moon said.
In Moscow, Russias Foreign Ministry said it was working behind the scenes to find a political solution and that it plans to hold talks with a representative of North Koreas foreign ministry who is due to arrive in Moscow on Tuesday, the RIA news agency cited the Norths embassy to Russia as saying.
The United States and South Korea are technically still at war with North Korea after the 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce and not a peace treaty.
RIYADH/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Saudi King Salman on Tuesday ordered that women be allowed to drive cars, ending a conservative tradition seen by rights activists as an emblem of the Islamic kingdoms repression of women.
The kingdom, the birthplace of Islam, has been widely criticized for being the only country in the world that bans women from driving, despite gradual improvement on some womens issues in recent years and ambitious government targets to increase their public role, especially in the workforce.
Despite trying to cultivate a more modern image in recent years, the driving ban had been a longstanding stain on Saudi Arabias international image.
The royal decree ordered the formation of a ministerial body to give advice within 30 days and then implement the order by June 24, 2018, according to state news agency SPA.
It stipulated that the move must apply and adhere to the necessary Sharia standards, referring to Islamic law.
It gave no details but said a majority of the Council of Senior Religious Scholars, Saudi Arabias top clerical body, had approved its permissibility.
An hour after the official announcement in Saudi Arabia, a jubilant Saudi ambassador to Washington, Prince Khaled bin Salman, said it was an historic and big day in our kingdom.
I think our leadership understands that our society is ready.
I think its the right decision at the right time, the ambassador said.
Positive reactions quickly poured in from inside the kingdom and around the world, with the U.S. State Department welcoming the move as a great step in the right direction.
For more than 25 years, women activists have campaigned to be allowed to drive, defiantly taking to the road, petitioning the king and posting videos of themselves behind the wheel on social media.
The protests brought them arrest and harassment.
Activist Manal al-Sherif, who was arrested in 2011 after a driving protest, took to Twitter following the kings announcement to express her relief.
Today, the last country on earth to allow women to drive... we did it, she wrote.
Latifa al-Shaalan, a member of the Shura Council, an advisory body, said the decision would strengthen womens employment in the private sector.
This is an historic day and I cannot find the words to express my feelings and the feelings of thousands of Saudi women, she said on Arabiya TV.
CONSERVATIVE PUSHBACK

In Saudi Arabia, a top Arab ally of the United States, women are legally subject to a male guardian, who must give approval to basic decisions they make in fields including education, employment, marriage, travel plans and even medical treatment.
Women in the kingdom are also bound by law to wear long robes and a headscarf and require the consent of a male guardian for most legal actions.
Prince Khaled, the ambassador, said women would not need permission from their guardians to get a license or have a guardian in the car and would be allowed to drive anywhere in the kingdom, including the Islamic holy cities of Mecca and Medina.
Women with a license from any of the Gulf Cooperation Council countries would be allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia, he added.
He said the Interior Ministry would have to decide whether they could be professional drivers.
In terms of international PR, this is the biggest overnight win that Saudi Arabia - and particularly MBS - could possibly have, said Jane Kinninmont, senior research fellow at Chatham House.
The position of Saudi women gradually improved under late King Abdullah and since King Salman took over in 2015, the kingdom has been opening more areas for women through the governments modernizing reforms.
That has sparked tensions with influential clerics upon whose support the ruling family relies.
Some reactions to Tuesdays announcement reflected that.
Critics took to Twitter to denounce the decision, accusing the government of bending the verses of Sharia.
As far as I remember, Sharia scholars have said it was haram (forbidden) for women to drive.
How come it has suddenly become halal (permissible)?
another user wrote.
Asked whether he was worried about a conservative backlash, the ambassador said: On these changes some people will be in the drivers seat... some people will be in the back seat, but were all going to move forward.
He added: Its not women must drive, its women can drive.
So if any women do not want to drive in Saudi Arabia, thats her choice.
Some leading members of the countrys powerful and austere Sunni Muslim clergy have argued against women being allowed to drive, which they say could lead to them mingling with unrelated men, thereby breaching strict gender segregation rules.
The decision could also have broad economic impacts, making it possible for women to get to work without a driver but also curbing the popularity of car hailing apps like Uber and Careem.
Prince Khaled, a son of the king, said the decision was as much about economic reform as social change.
His older brother, 32-year-old Crown Prince Mohammed, has become the face of reform in the kingdom in the past few years.
Many younger Saudis regard his ascent as evidence that their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked womens progress.
Oh my God, this is amazing.
Ever since Mohammed bin Salmans rise, he has fast-tracked all the changes that are needed for our country, said Marwa Afandi, a 35-year-old event planner in the Red Sea city of Jeddah.
Congratulations to all my ladies, this is a real victory.
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Director General Yukiya Amano reacts during an interview with Reuters at the IAEA headquarters in Vienna, Austria September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Leonhard Foeger

neVIENNA (Reuters) - The U.N. nuclear watchdogs chief urged major powers on Tuesday to clarify a part of their nuclear deal with Iran dealing with technology that could be used to develop an atom bomb, an area Russia said the agency should leave alone.
The 2015 pact between six major powers and Iran restricts its nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of sanctions against the Islamic Republic.
Compliance with those curbs is being verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency.
IAEA Director General Yukiya Amano has defended the deal as a major step forward while declining to comment specifically on criticism of it by the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump, who has called the accord - reached by predecessor Barack Obama - an embarrassment to the United States.
But while Nikki Haley, U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations, has infuriated Tehran by saying the IAEA should widen its inspections to include military sites, diplomats say Russia has been trying to restrict the agencys role by arguing it has no authority to police a broadly worded section of the deal.
That section bans activities which could contribute to the development of a nuclear explosive device.
It lists examples such as using computer models that simulate a nuclear bomb, or designing multi-point, explosive detonation systems.
Related Coverage Top U.S. general says exiting Iran nuclear pact would make future deals tough

Unlike many other parts of the deal, the provision, known as Section T, makes no mention of the IAEA or specifics of how it will be verified.
Russia says that means the IAEA has no authority over it.
Western powers and the agency disagree.
Our tools are limited, Amano told Reuters when asked if his agency had the means to verify Section T.

International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Director General Yukiya Amano looks on during an interview with Reuters at the IAEA headquarters in Vienna, Austria September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Leonhard Foeger

In other sections, for example, Iran has committed to submit declarations, place their activities under safeguards or ensure access by us.
But in Section T I dont see any (such commitment).
Amano said he hoped the parties to the agreement would discuss the issue in the Joint Commission, a forum created by the deal, adding that even a clearer definition of terms such as the technology referred to would be an improvement.
More clarification would be helpful ... Russia has a different view.
They believe that it is not the mandate of the IAEA.
Others have different views and discussions are ongoing.
Slideshow (4 Images)

DIPLOMACY

Trump has hinted that he may not recertify the agreement when it comes up for review by a mid-October deadline, in which case the U.S. Congress would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the accord, known officially as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA).
Amano repeated, however, that Iran was implementing its nuclear commitments under the deal.
He said complementary access - often consisting of short-notice inspections carried out under the IAEA Additional Protocol, which Iran is implementing under the accord - was going smoothly.
Complementary access in Iran is being undertaken without problem and the number of accesses is quite high, he said.
When asked if a successful Iran deal could help encourage a political solution in nuclear-armed North Korea, to which the IAEA has no access, Amano said the two situations were quite different.
But he added: I also do not say that theres no comparison, because in the JCPOAs case, diplomacy worked.
FILE PHOTO: Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte gestures as he delivers his speech, during the oath taking of Philippine National Police (PNP) star rank officers, at the Malacanang Presidential Palace in Manila, Philippines August 30, 2017.
REUTERS/Romeo Ranoco/File Photo

MANILA (Reuters) - Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte urged the United States on Tuesday to help control drugs smuggling, blaming Taiwan and Hong Kong-based criminal gangs for using his country as a shipping hub.
In a speech, he also said illegal drugs had funded the seizure by Islamist militants of large parts of the southern city of Marawi in May.
More than 800 people have died in the conflict, which Duterte said was triggered by an attempt to arrest a drug personality, who he did not identify.
The Philippines is a transhipment of shabu to America, Duterte told members of the Philippine Constitution Association, referring to the local term for methamphetamine.
It behoves upon America to work closely with the Republic of the Philippines, especially on this serious matter.
Duterte, who was elected 16 months ago on promises to fight corruption, crime and drugs, said the so-called 14-K triads in Hong Kong and the Taiwan-based Bamboo triads were using the country as a transhipment point.
We are flooded with drugs.
This is the first time I would reveal it ... the Philippines today is a client state of the Bamboo triad.
They have taken over the operations, he added.
Duterte gave no details of the source of his information.
Washington has said it supports the countrys anti-drug efforts but has also urged Manila to respect human rights and the rule of law in its operations.
More than 3,800 people have died in gunfights with police and soldiers in anti-drug operations nationwide since June last year, according to the government.
Human rights groups say the figure is much higher.
BAGHDAD/ERBIL, Iraq (Reuters) - Iraqi Kurdish leader Masoud Barzani said on Tuesday that Kurds had voted yes to independence in a referendum held in defiance of the government in Baghdad and which had angered their neighbors and their U.S. allies.
The Kurds, who have ruled over an autonomous region within Iraq since the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that toppled Saddam Hussein, consider Mondays referendum to be an historic step in a generations-old quest for a state of their own.
Iraq considers the vote unconstitutional, especially as it was held not only within the Kurdish region itself but also on disputed territory held by Kurds elsewhere in northern Iraq.
The United States, major European countries and neighbors Turkey and Iran strongly opposed the decision to hold the referendum, which they described as destabilizing at a time when all sides are still fighting against Islamic State militants.
In a televised address, Barzani said the yes vote had won and he called on Iraqs central government in Baghdad to engage in serious dialogue instead of threatening the Kurdish Regional Government with sanctions.
The Iraqi government earlier ruled out talks on Kurdish independence and Turkey threatened to impose a blockade.
We may face hardship but we will overcome, Barzani said, calling on world powers to respect the will of millions of people who voted in the referendum.
Earlier, the Kurdish Rudaw TV channel said an overwhelming majority, possibly over 90 percent, had voted yes.
Final results are expected by Wednesday.
Celebrations continued until the early hours of Tuesday in Erbil, capital of the Kurdish region, which was lit by fireworks and adorned with Kurdish red-white-green flags.
People danced in the squares as convoys of cars drove around honking their horns.
In ethnically mixed Kirkuk, where Arabs and Turkmen opposed the vote, authorities lifted an overnight curfew imposed to maintain control.
Kirkuk, located atop huge oil resources, is outside the Kurdish region but controlled by Kurdish forces that occupied it in 2014 after driving out Islamic State fighters.
In neighboring Iran, which also has a large Kurdish minority, thousands of Kurds marched in support of the referendum, defying a show of strength by Tehran which flew fighter jets over their areas.
The referendum has fueled fears of a new regional conflict.
Turkey, which has fought a Kurdish insurgency within its borders for decades, reiterated threats of economic and military retaliation.
Barzani, who is president of the Kurdish Regional Government, has said the vote is not binding, but meant to provide a mandate for negotiations with Baghdad and neighboring countries over the peaceful secession of the region from Iraq.
IRAQI OPPOSITION

Baghdad said there would be no such talks.
We are not ready to discuss or have a dialogue about the results of the referendum because it is unconstitutional, Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said on Monday night.
Abadi ordered the Kurds to hand over control of their airports to the central government within three days or face an international embargo on flights.
Abadi, a moderate from Iraqs Shiite Arab majority, is coming under pressure at home to take punitive measures against the Kurds.
Hardline Iranian-backed Shiite groups have threatened to march on Kirkuk.
We as Popular Mobilisation would be fully prepared to carry out orders from Abadi if he asks to liberate Kirkuk and the oilfields from the separatist militias, said Hashim al-Mouasawi, a spokesman for the al-Nujabaa paramilitary group.
Iraqi Kurdish president Masoud Barzani speaks during a news conference in Erbil, Iraq September 24, 2017.
REUTERS/Azad Lashkari

The Kurds, who speak their own language related to Persian, were left without a state of their own when the Ottoman empire crumbled a century ago.
Around 30 million are scattered in northern Iraq, southastern Turkey and parts of Syria and Iran.
The autonomous region they control in Iraq is the closest the Kurds have come in modern times to a state.
It has flourished, largely remaining at peace while the rest of Iraq has been in a continuous state of civil war for 14 years.
Since the fall of Saddam, they have had to carefully balance their ambitions for full independence with the threat of a backlash from their neighbors and the reluctance of Washington to redraw borders.
In the past four years they achieved a measure of economic independence by opening a route to sell oil through pipelines to a port in Turkey.
But that still leaves them at the mercy of Ankara, which draws a firm line at formal independence.
Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan warned that Iraqi Kurds would go hungry if Turkey imposed sanctions, and said military and economic measures could be used against them.
This referendum decision, which has been taken without any consultation, is treachery, he said, repeating threats to cut off the pipeline.
The Kurds say the referendum acknowledges their contribution in confronting Islamic State after it overwhelmed the Iraqi army in 2014 and seized control of a third of Iraq.
Slideshow (4 Images)

Voters were asked to say yes or no to the question: Do you want the Kurdistan Region and Kurdistani areas outside the (Kurdistan) Region to become an independent country?
Iraqi soldiers joined Turkish troops for military exercises in southeast Turkey on Tuesday near the border with the Kurdistan region.
Turkey also took the Rudaw TV channel off its satellite service TurkSat.
STATE DEPARTMENT

Iraqs Kurds have been close allies of the United States since Washington offered them protection from Saddam in 1991.
But the United States has long encouraged the Kurds to avoid unilateral steps so as not to jeopardize the stability of Iraq or antagonize Turkey.
The U.S. State Department said it was deeply disappointed by the decision to conduct the referendum but Washingtons relationship with regions people would not change.
Asked about the referendum, White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said on Monday: We hope for a unified Iraq to annihilate ISIS (Islamic State) and certainly a unified Iraq to push back on Iran.
The European Union regretted that the Kurds had failed to heed its call not to hold the referendum and said Iraqi unity remained essential in facing the threat from Islamic State.
The Kremlin said Moscow backed the territorial integrity of countries in the region.
Unlike other powers, Russia had not directly called on the Kurds to cancel the referendum.
Moscow has quietly pledged billions of dollars in investment in the past year, becoming the biggest funders of the Kurds.
Iran banned flights to and from Kurdistan on Sunday, while Baghdad asked foreign countries to stop oil trading with the Kurdish region and demanded that the KRG hand over control of its international airports and border posts with Iran, Turkey and Syria.
Iranian Major General Yahya Rahim Safavi, a top adviser to the Supreme Leader, called on the four neighboring countries to block land borders with the Iraqi Kurdish region, according to state news agency IRNA.
Tehran supports Shiite Muslim groups that are powerful in Baghdad.
Syria, embroiled in a civil war and whose Kurds are pressing ahead with their own self-determination, also rejected the referendum.
KRG Prime Minister Nechirvan Barzani said he hoped to maintain good relations with Turkey.
The referendum does not mean independence will happen tomorrow, nor are we redrawing borders, he said in Erbil on Monday.
If the yes vote wins, we will resolve our issues with Baghdad peacefully.
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson listens to remarks at the Security Council meeting on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction at the 72nd United Nations General Assembly at U.N. headquarters in New York, U.S., September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Stephanie Keith

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will meet with his Cuban counterpart Bruno Rodriguez later on Tuesday, the Department of State said, at a time of heightening tensions between the old Cold War foes.
Their meeting in Washington comes ten days after Tillerson said the United States was considering closing its embassy in Havana, in response to alleged incidents causing physical harm such as hearing loss and nausea in U.S. personnel.
Cuba has denied any involvement in the incidents, which have threatened its already fragile detente with its northern neighbor.
Rodriguez last week urged the U.S. not to politicize the matter and to cooperate with the investigation.
The U.S. is also expected to soon issue more restrictive regulations on trade with and travel to Cuba, following President Donald Trumps announcement in June that he was partially rolling back the detente agreed by his predecessor Barack Obama with the Communist-run island.
In his address to the United Nations General Assembly in New York last week, Trump called Cuba corrupt and destabilizing and said he would not lift the U.S. trade embargo on the Caribbean nation until it made fundamental reforms.
Cuba described his comments as unacceptable and meddling.
Tillerson and Rodriguez are scheduled to meet at 1700 ET (2100 GMT) at the Department of State.
PARIS (Reuters) - French President Emmanuel Macron offered an ambitious vision for European renewal on Tuesday, calling for the EU to work more closely on defense and immigration and for the euro zone to have its own budget, ideas he may struggle to implement.
In a nearly two-hour speech delivered two days after the German election in which Chancellor Angela Merkels conservative CDU/CSU bloc scored its worst result since 1949, limiting her freedom to maneuver on Europe, the 39-year-old French president held little back in terms of sweep, self-assurance and aspiration.
But at a time when Europe is beset by tensions between east and west and battling to overcome nearly a decade of draining economic crisis, Macrons earnest and at times high-brow discourse ran the risk of falling on deaf ears.
Speaking at the Sorbonne, he portrayed Europe as needing to relaunch itself, saying that on issues as diverse as asylum, border protection, corporate tax, intelligence sharing, defense and financial stability it needed much deeper cooperation.
The only path that assures our future is the rebuilding of a Europe that is sovereign, united and democratic, the former investment banker and philosophy student said, flanked by a French and a European Union flag.
At the beginning of the next decade, Europe must have a joint intervention force, a common defense budget and a joint doctrine for action.
In his run for the presidency, Macron made European reform a central plank of his centrist campaign, and he and Merkel have spoken frequently about their desire for France and Germany, the European Unions two largest economies and often its engines of change, to take the lead on integration.
But five months into his five-year term, Macron faces the threat that Merkel, 63 and looking to start her fourth term, has less capacity to move than either would have hoped.
Her alliance is still the largest bloc in the Bundestag, but to build a working majority she will likely have to form a coalition with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), who are opposed to many of Macrons ideas.
German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel, a senior member of the Social Democrats (SPD), hailed Macrons speech a passionate plea against nationalism and for Europe.
He can count on us, said Gabriel, whose party has ruled out being part of a new grand coalition.
Rather than tailoring his speech to fit the contours of what the FDP, the Greens or Merkel may have wanted to hear, Macron kept his vision broad and far-reaching, while also detailing some specific ideas for an improved euro zone.
A budget can only go hand-in-hand with strong political leadership led by a common (finance) minister and a strong parliamentary supervision at the European level, he said, emphasizing the need for democratic accountability.
French President Emmanuel Macron delivers a speech to set out plans for reforming the European Union at the Sorbonne in Paris, France, September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Ludovic Marin/Pool

PROVIDE DETAIL

The fiscally conservative FDP dislikes the idea of a euro zone budget or any facility that may lead to financial transfers from wealthier euro zone countries to poorer ones, as well as the possibility of national debt being pooled.
The party has also called for phasing out Europes ESM bailout fund, which Macron wants to turn into a European Monetary Fund, and wants to see changes to EU treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone.
You dont strengthen Europe with new pots of money, Alexander Lambsdorff, an FDP member in the European Parliament, said on Twitter in reaction to Macrons speech.
Slideshow (7 Images)

In a statement issued by the FDP in Berlin, Lambsdorff said: The problem in Europe is not a lack of public funds, but the lack of reform.
A euro zone budget would set exactly the wrong incentives.
Not shying away from addressing Germany directly even as it tries to resolve the fallout from Sundays election, Macron set an objective that the two countries completely integrate their markets and corporate rules by 2024.
We share the same European ambitions and I know her commitment to Europe, he said of Merkel.
Im proposing to Germany a new partnership.
We will not agree on everything, not immediately, but we will discuss everything.
In Berlin on Monday, Merkel said it was important to move beyond catchphrases and provide detail on how Europe could be improved.
It was not immediately clear whether Macron had managed to go beyond slogans as far as Merkel was concerned.
But Martin Selmayr, the chief of staff of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, said the proposals to reinforce the euro zone would be discussed alongside Junckers own at a euro zone summit planned for December.
Italys EU affairs minister, Sandro Gozi, said the speech would inspire European leaders into action.
An excellent speech by Emmanuel Macron on reviving the European Union.
Lets work on this together, starting tomorrow at the Lyon Summit, he said, referring to a meeting of the Italian and French leaders to discuss industrial policy.
Macron said he hoped his ideas would be taken into account in Germanys coalition building negotiations.
Those talks are not expected to begin until mid-October and may take several months.
Some had said I should wait for the coalition talks to be concluded, Macron said, adding had he done so, the reaction in Berlin would have been: Your proposals are great but its too late, the coalition deal already lays out what will we do on Europe for the next four years.
A man walks past a crosswalk, painted in the form of an Estelada (Catalan pro-independence flag) in Arenys de Munt, north of Barcelona, Spain, September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Albert Gea

BARCELONA/MADRID (Reuters) - Spains government said on Tuesday police would take control of voting booths in Catalonia to help thwart the regions planned independence referendum that Madrid has declared illegal.
The dispute has plunged Spain into one of its biggest political crises since the restoration of democracy in the 1970s after decades of military dictatorship.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has said the referendum is against the law and the constitutional court has ordered it be halted while its legality is determined.
Catalonias separatist government, however, remains committed to holding it on Sunday.
Rajoy, speaking on Tuesday alongside U.S. President Donald Trump in Washington, said it would be ridiculous if the affluent northeastern region declared independence from Spain.
Trump said he opposed the referendum and wanted a united Spain.
I really think the people of Catalonia would stay with Spain.
I think it would be foolish not to, he told reporters.
Senior Spanish government officials said on Tuesday authorities had done enough to prevent a meaningful referendum as Catalonia lacked an election commission, ballot boxes, ballot papers, a transparent census and election material.
Related Coverage Trump, Spanish PM Rajoy say they oppose Catalonia independence bid

Today we can affirm that there will be no effective referendum in Catalonia.
All the referendums logistics have been dismantled, the Spanish governments representative in Catalonia, Enric Millo, told reporters in Barcelona.
Catalonias prosecutor has ordered the regional police - known as the Mossos dEsquadra - to take control of any voting booths by Saturday, a spokesman for the Madrid governments Catalan delegation said.
In an order to police issued on Monday, the prosecutors office said they would take the names of anyone participating in the vote and confiscate relevant documents.
Students and volunteers inform citizens about the banned October 1 independence referendum outside the University of Barcelona, in Barcelona, Spain, September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Jon Nazca

Anyone in possession of the keys or entrance codes to a polling booth could be considered a collaborator to crimes of disobedience, malfeasance and misappropriation of funds, the order said.
UNRELENTING OPPOSITION

The Madrid government has in recent weeks taken political and legal measures to prevent the referendum by exerting more control over the use of public funds in Catalonia and arresting regional officials.
Hundreds of police reinforcements have been brought into Barcelona and other cities.
Slideshow (3 Images)

Madrid has also threatened fines against bureaucrats working on the ballot, including the regions election commission, which was dissolved last week.
These actions have provoked mass demonstrations and drawn accusations from Catalan leaders that the Madrid government was resorting to the repression of the Franco dictatorship.
A yes vote is likely, given that most of the 40 percent of Catalans who polls show support independence are expected to cast ballots while most of those against it are not.
But the unrelenting opposition from Madrid means such a result would go all but unrecognised, potentially setting up a new phase of the dispute.
The Catalan regional government, which plans to declare independence within 48 hours of a yes victory, maintained on Tuesday the vote will go ahead and it sent out notifications to Catalans to man polling booths across the region.
Many had not yet received information about where or when they would be working after the state-run postal service was ordered to stop all mail related to the vote, a parliamentary spokeswoman for one separatist party said.
BRIGHTON, England (Reuters) - Britains main opposition Labour Party is ready for government, its leader Jeremy Corbyn will say on Wednesday, calling on Prime Minister Theresa May to end her governments Brexit bungling, give up power and make way for his negotiators.
Corbyn is keen to press home his advantage over May, who is struggling to unite her party over Britains negotiations to leave the European Union and to keep her own position, under threat from some in the party who cannot forgive the loss of their parliamentary majority in a June election she called.
At the end of an upbeat four-day conference which cemented leftist Corbyns control over the party, the Labour leader will say the June vote had made his team of top advisers a government-in-waiting.
With Labour closing the gap in opinion polls to stand roughly level with the Conservatives, the party is within sight of winning an election - although the governing party has said it has no plans to call a vote anytime before 2022.
Against all predictions, in June we won the largest increase in the Labour vote since 1945 and achieved Labours best vote for a generation.
Its a result which has put the Tories (Conservatives) on notice and Labour on the threshold of power, Corbyn will say, according to excerpts of his speech.
Britain's opposition Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn listens to speeches at the Labour Party Conference venue in Brighton, Britain, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

Yes, we didnt do quite well enough and we remain in opposition for now.
But we have become a government-in-waiting.
And our message to the country could not be clearer: Labour is ready.
So far, there is little appetite in the Conservative Party to hold an early election, and no clear frontrunner to replace May.
Most do not want to open the way for Corbyn, whose promises to end austerity have won over many voters, particularly the young.
But a Labour spokesman said ahead of the speech that the possibility of an early election is significant, and Corbyns advisers were working out how to realize their policies.
Things that were talking about which were regarded as outlandish or somehow extreme when we first laid them out ... actually reflect the majority opinion in this country.
Promising to genuinely place power in the hands of the people and do politics differently, Corbyn will criticize Mays Brexit strategy, saying her Conservatives are more interested in posturing for personal advantage than in getting the best deal for Britain.
So I have a simple message to the cabinet: for Britains sake, pull yourself together or make way.
Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike attends a news conference to announce the name of her new political party at Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building in Tokyo, Japan September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon

TOKYO (Reuters) - A Japanese party being launched by popular Tokyo Governor Yuriko Koike may merge with the main opposition Democratic Party, the Nikkei business daily reported on Wednesday, adding uncertainty to the outlook for a general election next month.
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Monday he would call the snap election to reset his mandate, betting that his Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and junior coalition party can keep their majority in parliaments lower house, where they hold a two-thirds super majority.
Abe will dissolve the lower house on Thursday for a vote expected on Oct. 22.
The Nikkei said that Koike met Democratic Party leader Seiji Maehara on Tuesday to discuss the possible merger, which could also include another small opposition party.
But the newspaper said the prospects for a merger were uncertain, since Koike has suggested she was not keen and the move could trigger a split in the Democratic Party.
Koike, 65, who launched her fledgling Party of Hope just this week, defied the LDP to run successfully for the Tokyo governorship a year ago and in July fielded candidates who routed the LDP in an election for the metropolitan assembly.
A former LDP member and defense minister, Koike has said she aimed to push reformist policies, open government and an end to reliance on nuclear power.
Saudi Arabia, home to Islams holiest sites, is an absolute monarchy ruled according to Shariah law.
Saudi officials and clerics have provided numerous explanations for the ban over the years.
Some said that it was inappropriate in Saudi culture for women to drive, or that male drivers would not know how to handle having women in cars next to them.
Others argued that allowing women to drive would lead to promiscuity and the collapse of the Saudi family.
One cleric claimed  with no evidence  that driving harmed womens ovaries.
Rights groups and Saudi activists have long campaigned for the ban to be overturned, and some women have been arrested and jailed for defying the prohibition and taking the wheel.
In 2014, Loujain Hathloul was arrested after trying to cross the border from the United Arab Emirates into Saudi Arabia and detained for 73 days.
@LoujainHathloul Im so proud of you, Fahad Albuteiri, her husband and a well-known Saudi comedian, wrote on Twitter.
Ms. Hathloul tweeted a simple reaction to the news: Thank god.
The ban has long marred the image of Saudi Arabia, even among its closest allies, like the United States, whose officials sometimes chafed at a policy shared only by the jihadists of the Islamic State and the Taliban.
The decision won near universal praise in Washington.
Heather Nauert, the State Departments spokeswoman, called it a great step in the right direction for that country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The momentum to change the policy picked up in recent years with the rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the kings 32-year-old son, who has laid out a far-reaching plan to overhaul the kingdoms economy and society.
Increasing numbers of women are working in a growing number of professions, and in 2015, women were allowed to vote and to run for seats on the kingdoms local councils.
Ending the ban on women driving is expected to face some resistance inside the kingdom, where families are highly patriarchal and some men say they worry about their female relatives getting stranded should their cars break down.
But in a small news conference at the Saudi embassy in Washington, an exuberant Prince Khalid bin Salman, the Saudi ambassador, said women would be able to obtain drivers licenses without having to ask permission of their husbands, fathers or any male guardian  despite so-called guardianship laws that give men power over their female relatives.
Video

Under these laws, women cannot travel abroad, work or undergo some medical procedures without the consent of their male guardian, often a father, a husband or even a son.
While the enforcement of guardianship laws has loosened in recent years, there is little to stop Saudi men from greatly limiting the movements of their wives or daughters.
The ambassador, who is a son of the king, said that women would be able to drive alone but that the Interior Ministry would decide whether they could work as professional drivers.
He said he did not expect the change in policy to face significant resistance.
I think our society is ready, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That remains an open question.
Many Saudis remain deeply conservative, and social strictures like the driving ban have been reinforced over the years by the kingdoms top clerics, many of them on the government payroll.
But there was little public dissent on Tuesday, likely because the Saudi government often exerts pressure on prominent voices to make sure they either back the government line or keep quiet.
In recent weeks it has arrested more than two dozens clerics, academics and others, accusing them of being foreign-funded dissidents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the change on the driving ban was announced, an anonymous text circulated through Whats App in the kingdom calling on the virtuous ones to work against its implementation, to protect against epidemics, adultery and other disasters.
At the news conference, the ambassador insisted that the decision would not be reversed or seriously opposed.
Beyond the effects it could have on Saudi Arabias image abroad, letting women drive could help the Saudi economy.
Low oil prices have limited the government jobs that many Saudis have long relied on, and the kingdom is trying to push more citizens, including women, into private sector employment.
But some working Saudi women say hiring private drivers to get them to and from work eats up much of their pay, diminishing the incentive to work.
In recent years, many women have come to rely on ride-sharing apps like Uber and Careem to gain some freedom of movement.
Many of the kingdoms professionals and young people will welcome the change, viewing it as a step to making life in the country a bit more like life elsewhere.
Manal al-Sharif, a Saudi womens rights advocate who filmed herself driving in 2011 and posted the footage to YouTube to protest the law, celebrated the announcement on Tuesday.
Ms. Sharif was instrumental in organizing groups of women for collective protests to demand an end to the ban on female drivers.
She was arrested at the time for taking part in the actions, and later wrote a book about her experience.
She now lives in Australia.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But despite celebrating the success for female drivers, she said the next campaign would be to end guardianship laws.
The royal decree, read by an announcer of state television and signed by King Salman, said traffic laws would be amended, including to allow the government to issue drivers licenses to men and women alike.
The decree said a high-level ministerial committee was being formed to study other issues that needed to be addressed for the change to take place.
For example, the police will have to be trained to interact with women in a way that they rarely do in Saudi Arabia, a society where men and women who are not related have little contact.
The committee has 30 days to provide its recommendations, the decree said, so that the new policy can be carried out starting on June 24, 2018.
The decree said that the majority of the Council of Senior Scholars  the kingdoms top clerical body, whose members are appointed by the king  had agreed that the government could allow women to drive if done in accordance with Shariah law.
Referring to the Kurdish leadership, he added, Unfortunately, some have tried to weaken Iraq and be stronger than the state.
We are partners in this country, and the partnership means we work together and dont carry out unilateral decisions that lead to division and conflict and weakness, Mr. Abadi said.
There was no immediate response by leaders of the Kurdistan Regional Government.
In an address in Erbil on Tuesday night, Massoud Barzani, the regions president, referred indirectly to Mr. Abadis ultimatum.
We ask the Baghdad government not to threaten the Kurds because of the referendum, he said.
He urged the Iraqi government to enter negotiations and to respect what he said was the will of the Kurdish people to seek a nation of their own.
He added that the referendum had been approved by a wide margin, though he did not provide figures.
The Kurdish authorities are expected to announce the vote results on Wednesday.
Turkey and Iran fear that a move toward independence by the Iraqi Kurds will inflame separatist fervor among their countries Kurdish minorities.
Videos on social media showed Kurds in at least two Iranian cities celebrating the Iraqi Kurds vote.
The United States also opposed the vote, worried that it could set off ethnic conflict, break up Iraq and undermine the American-led coalition against the Islamic State.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Both Turkey and Iran have threatened sanctions against the Kurdish region, including the closing of border crossings.
Turkish and Iraqi troops are conducting military exercises on Iraqs northern border near Kurdistan, and Iranian forces are carrying out similar maneuvers on Iraqs eastern border.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Turkeys president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said Tuesday that Kurdistans action risked provoking a wider conflict, and he warned that Kurds would go hungry from a trade blockade with Turkey.
If Barzani and the Kurdish Regional Government do not reverse this mistake as soon as possible, they will go down in history with the shame of taking the region into an ethnic and sectarian war, he said in a televised speech from Ankara.
The Kurdish regional government, which has its own parliament and military force, operates international airports in its capital, Erbil, and in the northern city of Sulaimaniyah.
There is no domestic Kurdish airline in the autonomous region.
Iraq asked other countries last week to halt flights into the Kurdish region, but only Iran complied.
Mr. Abadi is expected to meet on Wednesday with the Iraqi Parliament, which has voted to request that Iraqi troops be sent to disputed areas that are controlled by the Kurds but claimed by Baghdad.
The would include the multiethnic, oil-rich city of Kirkuk, which the Kurds seized in 2014.
As the Islamic State rose in northern Iraq in 2014, Kurdish fighters took advantage of the chaos, and in some cases of fleeing Iraqi troops, to expand the Kurdish territory by 40 percent.
The Iraqi Parliament has also requested that the government consider closing land crossings linking Iraqi Kurdistan and the rest of the country.
The move by Mr. Abadi was viewed in Kurdistan as the beginning of a campaign to pressure the region to back away from independence.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the Kurds, an independent state has been a national aspiration for generations.
When borders in the Middle East were redrawn after World War I, the Kurds were denied a homeland.
About 30 million Kurds are spread across Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey.
For decades, Baathist-led governments in Baghdad tried to crush or evict the Kurds from their traditional lands and replace them with Arabs.
But the Kurds were protected from Saddam Husseins troops by an American no-fly zone starting in 1991, and have since built a thriving proto-state across northern Iraq.
Analysts say that even if the referendum does not result in immediate independence, it strengthens the Kurds leverage in negotiating greater autonomy from Baghdad.
He said the sanctions were imposed to complement a Security Council resolution on Sept. 11 that represented the strongest penalties yet imposed by the world body on North Korea for its repeated nuclear and missile tests over the past decade.
The eight banks, which the Treasury statement described as operators in North Koreas financial services industry, were identified as: Agricultural Development Bank; Cheil Credit Bank; Hana Banking Corporation Ltd.; International Industrial Development Bank; Jinmyong Joint Bank; Jinsong Joint Bank; Koryo Commercial Bank Ltd.; and Ryugyong Commercial Bank.
Under American sanctions, any property under United States jurisdiction that is owned by designated entities or people can be seized.
Those targeted by the sanctions also are banned from doing business with American citizens.
Political analysts said Treasury sanctions would, at the least, cause new disruptions for Mr. Kims overseas revenue streams, forcing North Korea to find other ways to move money.
This is a valuable step forward because it will further squeeze the North Korean regime, interdict its access to foreign exchange, and narrow Pyongyangs options as it seeks to do business around the world, said Evans J.R. Revere, a Korea expert who is a former deputy assistant secretary of state.
The Treasury action came a day after North Koreas foreign minister, Ri Yong-ho, said his country regarded the Trump administrations recent statements and actions, most notably President Trumps threat to destroy North Korea, as a declaration of war.
Mr. Ri said that North Korea now had the right to shoot down American warplanes even if they were operating in international airspace.
Trump administration officials called Mr. Ris accusations absurd.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Asked on Tuesday about the North Korean foreign ministers remarks, Mr. Trump said the United States did not prefer a military option in dealing with the crisis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But if we take that option, it will be devastating  I can tell you that  devastating for North Korea, Mr. Trump told a news conference in the White House Rose Garden after talks with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain.
Mr. Trump also reiterated his view that he had inherited the problem of an increasingly belligerent North Korea from previous White House administrations that had failed to stop its drive to be a nuclear-armed state.
North Korea is a situation that should have been handled 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago, and five years ago, and it could have been handled much more easily, he said.
You had various administrations  many administrations which left me a mess.
But Ill fix the mess.
So well see what happens with North Korea.
Earlier Tuesday, the parents of Otto F. Warmbier, the American student detained by North Korea who died shortly after he had been flown home comatose in June, said in their first interview since his death that he had been tortured, describing his captors as terrorists.
Speaking on the Fox & Friends morning news program, the parents, Fred and Cindy Warmbier of Cincinnati, provided previously undisclosed details on the injuries to their son, 22, a University of Virginia undergraduate.
The Warmbiers said they had decided to speak out now partly because they were aghast at efforts by the North Korean government to portray itself as the victim of United States aggression in the unfolding crisis over nuclear weapons and missile testing.
Were here to tell you North Korea is not a victim, Fred Warmbier said.
Theyre terrorists.
They kidnapped Otto, tortured him, they intentionally injured him.
North Korean officials have said Mr. Warmbier was released on humanitarian grounds and had been treated respectfully.
They attributed his state of near-death to sleeping pills and botulism poisoning, a conclusion that his American doctors could not corroborate.
Mr. Warmbier was seized from a tour group while visiting North Korea in January 2016, convicted of trying to steal a propaganda poster and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor, a punishment that the United States and much of the world called egregious.
The consequences of this referendum are anybodys guess.
Five years ago, Spain was in a deep financial crisis, and politicians in Madrid and Barcelona were bickering more about money and Catalonias tax contributions to poorer regions than they were about sovereignty.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, the separatist Catalan leadership says it would not return to a negotiating table to discuss finances alone.
And any reversal on independence could break up the regions fragile governing coalition, which relies on the support of a small far-left party.
The political situation in Madrid is also far more complicated today than it was at the time of the last independence vote.
In 2014, Mr. Rajoys Popular Party had a parliamentary majority and his political survival wasnt at stake.
Since late 2016, he has been at the helm of a minority government.
A deepening territorial crisis could prompt opposition parties to push for his removal.
The most pressing challenge, however, could come from the streets of Barcelona.
Its unclear how Catalans might react if Madrid were to order a further clampdown.
Since 2012, people backing independence have held peaceful demonstrations in Barcelona that have been among some of the largest ever in Europe.
But tensions are reaching a boiling point, and Madrid recently sent thousands more police officers to Catalonia ahead of the vote.
Would Catalonia prosper on its own?
An independent Catalonia would be a midsize European nation, with Barcelona, one of Europes most cosmopolitan cities, as its capital.
Economists disagree over whether withdrawal would hurt the region significantly, or would instead weaken the rest of Spain.
But they agree that there would be a short-term economic cost as the two sides adjusted to a new political and territorial reality.
Much would depend on the financial and political terms under which Catalonia left, including how Spains debt burden would be split and whether Madrid would impose economic sanctions on Catalonia for withdrawing unilaterally.
At previous times of tension, Spanish consumers have boycotted Catalan consumer goods like cava, the regions sparkling wine.
And then there is the big question of whether Catalonia would be allowed to become a member state of the European Union and could continue to use the euro.
(That issue is complicated by the fact that the most radical Catalan separatist party wants nothing to do with Europes common currency.)
On Monday Egypts top prosecutor, Nabil Sadek, ordered an investigation and by evening the police had arrested seven people, most of whom were said to have waved rainbow flags.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

An official at Mr. Sadeks office said the seven had been charged with promoting sexual deviancy and could be detained for 15 days.
The state paper Al Ahram said one of the men had been detained for posting approvingly on Facebook about the concert.
Legal actions against him are underway, the paper reported.
On Monday, one man who had been photographed with a rainbow flag at the concert wrote on Facebook, Had I raised the ISIS flag I wouldnt be facing half of what I am facing now.
The man, who said he was not gay, did not respond to requests for comment.
It was unclear if he was among those arrested.
A second prosecution official said the seven arrested men would undergo a forensic medical examination to determine if they have had anal sex.
Such tests are standard practice in Egypt, but they have been condemned by human rights groups as a form of torture.
In an apparently separate case, a student who attended the Mashrou Leila concert was arrested hours later after being caught in the act, the police said.
The student was charged with debauchery and sentenced to six years imprisonment on Tuesday.
The police lured the man to a location near the pyramids using a fake profile on a dating app, and arrested him.
Homosexuality is not illegal in Egypt, but the authorities frequently prosecute gay men for homosexuality and women for prostitution under loosely-worded laws that prohibit immorality and habitual debauchery.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Musical concerts are one of the few public gatherings still permitted to young Egyptians, who otherwise chafe under harsh restrictions introduced by Mr. Sisi that have outlawed public protest, led to prosecutions of writers and the censorship of films and music deemed critical of the government.
Mashrou Leila is a wildly popular band across the Middle East, with its exuberant brand of Arab indie rock.
The bands lead singer, Hamed Sinno, is one of the few openly gay celebrities in a Muslim country, and has spoken publicly about his orientation.
The bands following grew after the Arab Spring, as it rode a wave of youthful openness, but it has since fallen foul of conservatives in different countries.
It was twice banned from playing in Jordan after facing accusations of blasphemy and not respecting the countrys traditions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Egypts pro-government musicians union denounced last Fridays concert, and said it was considering a ban on future performances by Mashrou Leila.
In 2016 the syndicate drew sharp criticism for its effort to stop a heavy metal concert in Cairo that it claimed had been organized by devil worshipers.
Ahmed Mahran, a law lecturer who filed the criminal complaint against the flag-wavers, conceded in a phone interview that some were minors.
But it doesnt matter, Mr. Mahran said.
We need to set an example.
He added, These people must be treated with force and cruelty.
The crackdown on gays in Egypt gained global notoriety in 2001 with the high-profile raid on Cairos Queen Boat nightclub, which led to dozens of arrests.
The Arab Spring ushered in a brief period of respite, but that door snapped shut again in 2013 after the military takeover that brought Mr. Sisi to power.
Since then, the security forces have sought to entrap gay and transgender people on dating sites by impersonating other gay people.
Last year the advocacy group Solidarity with Egypt LGBTQ+, which monitors news reports of criminal investigations, said at least 274 people had been charged.
Mr. Sisis government has also used the language of public morals to suppress critics.
On Monday a court convicted Khaled Ali, a lawyer and opposition figure, for making an obscene finger gesture outside a Cairo courthouse last year after he and other lawyers won a case against the government.
Mr. Ali, who was a candidate in the 2012 presidential election, has expressed interest in running in the next one, which is scheduled for 2018.
If an appeal court confirms Mondays conviction, he would be ineligible for the race.
Many of these voters moved to the AfD, but other small parties gained as well.
And the AfD also picked up significant support from disaffected voters who did not participate in the previous election, suggesting that many of its voters became alienated from politics first, and only later chose to support the party.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

These mainstream party losses fit a pattern that has played out across other countries where the far right is rising.
In France and the Netherlands, for instance, the mainstream parties losses in recent elections were far greater than the gains of far-right parties.
That suggests that populist parties are taking advantage of a much broader loss of faith in mainstream parties.
In an article in the journal Foreign Affairs, Cas Mudde, a professor at the University of Georgia who studies populism, blamed the undemocratic liberalism of mainstream politics for the loss of voter support.
Mr. Mudde argues that certain issues  including immigration, European Union integration, and center-right economic reforms  had become depoliticized.
Once elite consensus around those policies hardened, they were treated as foregone conclusions, not the subject of genuine debate.
That has alienated voters, he believes, creating opportunities for populist parties that promise alternatives.
Photo

A Threatened Sense of Identity

When I asked AfD supporters what had led them to the party, no one mentioned the economy.
Rather, I heard again and again that the nation and its essential Germanness were under threat from Muslim immigrants and other outsiders, and that only the AfD, among all the political parties, was willing to protect it.
Those interviews, though anecdotal, fit with experts findings about the drivers of far-right support in Germany.
Anxiety over identity and social change, experts say, not economic distress, attracts voters to far-right politics.
And immigration, the signature issue of the AfD and a major concern of its supporters, has emerged as a way to discuss issues of German identity that have long been taboo.
Immo Fritsche, a professor at the University of Leipzig who studies group identity formation, told me in an interview last winter that there has never been a positive definition of German identity since the Nazi era.
After the war, national identity, even national pride, were seen as too close to the aggressive nationalism that had led to Naziism.
Instead, Germany defined its national identity negatively, by what it was not.
Not fascist.
Not nationalist.
Not separate from Europe.
But now, decades after the end of World War II, many Germans are chafing against that taboo against identity.
At a rally in Dresden, earnest young AfD supporters told me over the roar of the crowd that it was unfair that other countries were allowed to have national pride and Germany was not.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The AfD has proved adept at exploiting frustration at this.
It presents itself as a champion of ordinary Germans, punching up at the elite who would deny them their national identity.
Recent events have made national identity feel especially important, and threatened, for many Germans.
The refugee crisis has brought an influx of over a million immigrants from the Middle East and Africa, many of whom have settled in towns and cities that were once overwhelmingly white.
Eric Kaufmann, a professor at Birkbeck, University of London, who studies ethnic majority politics, has found that this kind of sudden demographic change is particularly likely to set off a nativist backlash that can fuel far-right populism.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After Sundays election, he wrote on Twitter that the AfD may have even underperformed, relative to the level of immigration Germany has received in a short period of time.
Also, the perceived unresponsiveness of the European Union on matters of immigration and border security create a sense, for many Germans, that they have lost control over their country.
Professor Fritsches research shows that when people feel a loss of control, they seek a stronger connection to group identity, and experience a desire to make their group more powerful.
Therefore, he says, a sense that borders are open and immigration is uncontrolled may have made many Germans seek out a stronger sense of German identity, and a stronger Germany.
The AfDs message of border security and a return to national pride was perfectly placed to fulfill that need.
Photo

Looking to the Future

During a January visit to Berlin, I asked politicians from the Christian Democratic Union, led by Angela Merkel, and the opposition Social Democratic Party if they were worried about the rise of the AfD.
Their response tended to be breezy confidence.
Yes, the party had gone from nothing to polling at 15 percent in the few short years since its founding.
Yes, it was rather shocking to see the far right gaining ground in Germany.
But then they would come back to the same reassuring point: 15 percent was less than 85 percent.
So what would this upstart party be able to do, anyway?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Research suggests they should not be so confident.
Far-right parties influence on politics is often much greater than simple numbers would suggest.
Across Europe, although populist parties themselves rarely capture more than a small minority of the vote, their success has pushed mainstream parties to court far-right voters by mimicking elements of their platforms.
That has amplified the influence of the right-wing populist agenda, allowing far-right parties to shape policy from the fringes.
In Britain, for instance, the UK Independence Party, known as UKIP, tended to poll between 10 percent and 15 percent in 2012 and 2013.
While that was far from a majority, it was enough to put pressure on the center-right Conservative party, which announced a referendum on European Union membership in order to court those voters.
The result was the Brexit vote  the most significant event of British politics for a generation.
That same process has played out in other countries, with somewhat less extreme results, as center-right politicians have swung hard to the right on matters of immigration and Muslim integration in the Netherlands, France and even Germany itself, where Ms. Merkel gave a speech in December calling for a ban on full-face veils for Muslim women.
But the greater influence may be on the political system itself.
Professor Fritsches research shows that the same sense of threat and chaos that can fuel the far right can also drive polarization.
When leftists and liberals feel threatened, they too become more likely to close ranks with their own group and become more vehemently opposed to those who do not share their values, such as far-right parties and their supporters.
That can lead to oppositional, us-vs-them tribalism that can have a profound effect on the political ecosystem.
In Germany it has long been the norm for AfD rallies to be surrounded by protests that are often far larger than the rallies themselves.
At the events I attended, riot-gear-clad police officers held the groups apart from each other, carving a wide, empty space between the protesters and protested.
The measures were necessary to preserve safety, but reinforced the sense that each side was a threat to the other.
It looked as if Professor Fritsches research on polarization was given corporeal, very noisy form.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The question now is whether the AfDs presence in the Bundestag will cause those divisions to grow, and whether the political system will be able to bear the strain.
Carl Decaluw, the governor of West Flanders, said in an interview that he had notified the German government about the discovery and that the submarine would be declared a war grave.
He said that the German authorities would determine what to do with any remains on the submarine, although Mr. Termote said the complexity and expense involved in moving such a fragile structure meant that it would most likely stay where it is.
We are not revealing the precise location of the ship to avoid looters, Mr. Decaluw said.
We must show respect for the crew because this is a human grave.
The submarine, the 11th found off the Belgian coast, was one of dozens used during Germanys occupation of Belgium during World War I to destroy British ships and disrupt Allied trade routes in the North Sea and the English Channel.
The identity of the vessel  and how it was immobilized  remain a mystery.
Mr. Termote is determined to discover the truth, and he is focusing on several clues.
Two of the vessels torpedo tubes were destroyed and found lying a short distance away, but a lower tube remains intact.
Two of the hatches are still closed, but one was open; Mr. Termote said it had allowed him to see that the submarine was filled to the ceiling with sand.
That suggested that the remains of the commander and his crew  typically 22 in such a U-boat  would be buried within.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We are certain that the crew is dead and still inside, likely buried in the sand, though it is possible that some escaped, he said.
It takes about six months to a year for bodies to decompose underwater, so by now they would be reduced to bones.
It is a total mystery why the submarine is still there.
There are no witness accounts from that time of a sinking.
After carefully examining the evidence, he said the damage to the vessel suggested that it had probably escaped after being bombed by British forces and was on its way back to the German naval base in Bruges when it hit a British mine and sunk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another hypothesis was that it was sunk by a depth charge, an explosives-filled canister dropped from the stern of a ship to destroy a submarine.
German U-boats were lethally effective.
During World War I, the 93 U-boats stationed at Belgian ports sunk more than 2,550 Allied ships, but their relatively slow speed made them vulnerable to mines and depth charges.
At least 70 U-boats never returned to Belgium, and about 1,200 German sailors were confirmed dead, Mr. Termote said.
The murderous power of U-boats entered the global consciousness on May 7, 1915, when a German U-boat torpedoed the ocean liner Lusitania off the Irish coast, killing 1,198 people  including more than 100 Americans.
The sinking was used to demonstrate German barbarity, and it played a pivotal role in galvanizing the United States to enter the war.
Mr. Termote developed his fascination for shipwrecks as a teenager from his father, Dirk Termote, a maritime enthusiast, who at 80, often acts as skipper, including during the June dive.
Together, the father and son have discovered more than 1,100 shipwrecks, including near Haiti, Mozambique and Panama as well as in the North Sea.
Mr. Termotes latest discovery has attracted interest from as far away as Russia and China.
Eager to provide answers, Mr. Termote said he had reviewed the records of more than two dozen U-boats that were part of the German fleet in Belgium and remained unaccounted for.
He said confirmation would not come until he completed another dive in the coming weeks, when he hopes to examine identifying markers on the submarines propeller or torpedo tube.
U-boats were secret, so they were not always visibly marked to reveal their true identity, he said, but some of the parts had the U-boat number in case the submarine needed to be serviced.
He said he was hopeful, since the U-boat was the best-preserved wreck of its type that he had seen.
SAN FRANCISCO XOCHITEOPAN, Mexico  Sal Nicolas Prez stood in front of his house  or what was left of it  and surveyed the damage the earthquake had inflicted.
Deep, diagonal gashes scored the adobe facade.
Interior walls were rubble.
A collapse seemed likely.
He had built the house for his mother with money he had sent back to Mexico, little by little, while living illegally in New Jersey for three years, toiling in restaurant kitchens and at a carwash.
Now he awaited a verdict from government engineers: Could it be fixed, or did it need to be demolished?
He was preparing for the worst.
You work years there, and in three, four seconds its all over, he lamented.
The epicenter of Mexicos terrifying quake last week, which killed at least 318 people nationwide, was about 10 miles outside this poor rural village, San Francisco Xochiteopan.
Mr. Warmbier was seized from a tour group while visiting North Korea in January 2016, convicted of trying to steal a propaganda poster and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor, a punishment that the United States and much of the world called egregious.
His parents were never able to speak with him and learned that he would be returned home for medical reasons only shortly before it had been arranged.
He died within a week of his homecoming.
His 17-month-long incarceration added an emotional undercurrent to the hostile relationship between North Korea and the United States and played a role in the Trump administrations decision to bar Americans from visiting the country as of Sept. 1.
President Trump also mentioned Mr. Warmbier in his United Nations General Assembly speech last week in which he warned that North Korea risked destruction.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Warmbiers parents said that they had been warned in the hours before his arrival that their son was in a coma and had suffered brain damage, but that they and their two other children were unprepared for what they saw when they boarded the aircraft that had carried him home on June 13.
Otto had a shaved head, he had a feeding tube coming out of his nose, he was staring blankly into space jerking violently, the father said.
He was blind, he was deaf.
As we looked at him and tried to comfort him, it looked as if somebody had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth.
He also had a large scar on his right foot, Mr. Warmbier said, and within a few days of his arrival had developed a 104-degree fever.
They destroyed him, Cindy Warmbier said.
Doctors from the University of Cincinnati Medical Center who treated Otto Warmbier said upon his arrival that he had suffered extensive loss of brain tissue and severe neurological injury while in North Korea, but that his vital signs had been stable and that he had shown no sign of infection.
Amanda Nageleisen, a spokeswoman for the medical center, declined to comment on the Warmbiers description of their sons condition.
The Warmbiers also expressed astonishment that North Korea was not on the State Departments roster of state sponsors of terrorism, a designation that subjects the listed countries to special financial and military sanctions.
Iran, Sudan and Syria are on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Bush administration removed North Korea from the list in 2008 when North Korea signaled that it would permit nuclear inspections.
Trump administration officials have said they are reviewing whether North Korea will again be placed on the list.
Jean-Nicolas Guillemette, the general manager of Uber Montreal, said on Tuesday that the company could not accept the governments plan to increase the minimum training for Uber drivers to 35 hours, up from 20 hours.
The higher level matches the rule in Montreal for taxi drivers.
Unless the government withdraws its plan, Mr. Guillemette said, Uber would quit the province on Oct. 14.
The minister is attempting to impose old rules on a new model, Mr. Guillemette told a news conference.
These are major changes.
Uber has about 10,000 drivers in Montreal.
Mr. Guillemette said that the increased training would make it difficult to recruit new drivers, particularly those who only want to work part time.
Mr. Guillemette added that Uber can provide sufficient training in less time through alternate methods.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We firmly believe that technology allows us to provide what the government wants in terms of training, he said.
Uber hopes to continue discussions with the province leading up to the deadline, Mr. Guillemette.
But if the government sticks by its 35-hour rule, he added, well need to leave.
Mathieu Goudrault, a spokesman for the transport minister, said that the 35-hour minimum would now apply to all taxi drivers in Quebec, adding that the government would not consider a lower threshold for Uber drivers.
For licensed taxi drivers, the new minimum represents a considerable reduction from the previous requirement of 150 hours.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The province also wants criminal background checks on Uber drivers to be made by the police rather than by private firms.
It will also require mandatory, annual vehicle inspections.
In London, Uber is appealing the decision by the transport authority to not renew the ride-hailing services license to operate in the city.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, Ubers chief, apologized in an open letter on Monday for the companys mistakes.
Georges Malouf, a taxi company owner speaking on behalf of the industry in Montreal, characterized Ubers decision as negotiating tactic.
Uber is not obliged to stop its operations, its only doing it to frustrate users and to put pressure on the government, he said in a statement.
He added that it now remains to be seen if the provincial government will stand up to the company or fall flat under Ubers pressure.
Taxi drivers in Montreal and Quebec City have staged several large protests against Uber.
Last October, about 1,500 cabs brought traffic in downtown Montreal to a halt.
Cabdrivers and owners also made unsuccessful attempts to obtain court injunctions to shut Uber down.
This is the kind of corporation we dont need in Quebec, said Alain Croteau, the Quebec director of the United Steelworkers, which represents most of Montreals cabdrivers.
They gave a chance to Uber with the pilot project.
The government of Quebec needs to keep its position.
The Yemen conflict, which began in 2014, has killed thousands, devastated the water and public health systems, left 700,000 people infected with cholera and seven million at risk of famine.
Photo

Human rights groups have documented a trail of international law violations on both sides of the conflict.
The United Nations has repeatedly complained of a lack of access in the country, including for the delivery of lifesaving aid.
The latest United Nations human rights report, released in early September, found that Saudi-led coalition airstrikes continued to be the leading cause of civilian deaths, including child deaths.
The draft resolution, seen by The New York Times, encourages the Yemen national human rights body to cooperate with the United Nations human rights office and seeks to establish a three-member commission of inquiry.
That panel, according to the draft, would carry out comprehensive investigations into all alleged violations and abuses of human rights and violations of international law by all parties to the conflict in Yemen since September 2014.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It is sponsored by Belgium, Canada, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands.
The Saudi ambassador to the United Nations, Abdallah Y. al-Mouallimi, called the draft resolution premature.
He said the United Nations should instead help Yemens national authorities carry out their own investigations.
Saudi Arabia had circulated its own resolution proposing that approach and said it hoped a reasonable outcome would be reached.
Asked if the Saudis would retaliate economically against those countries pushing a commission of inquiry, the Saudi ambassador offered a nuanced response.
We dont link these issues with commercial considerations, Mr. Mouallimi said, but I think all the countries recognize we have presented a reasonable proposal and that trying to take alternative action would not be considered a friendly gesture.
Ravina Shamdasani, a spokeswoman for The Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, said in an email that Yemens national commission lacked access to Houthi-controlled areas and cannot do its work impartially, noting that it received funds from Saudi Arabia.
Separately, at least six of President Trumps closest advisers have used private email addresses to discuss White House matters, current and former officials said.
Mr. Trump harped on Hillary Clintons use of a private account as secretary of state, making it a centerpiece of his 2016 presidential campaign.
Above, Trump advisers, left to right, Jared Kushner, Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus and Stephen Miller were among those who used personal email accounts.
_____

Photo

 A day after Iraqi Kurds voted on independence, the Iraqi prime minister threatened to shut down flights to the region, giving the regional government until Friday to surrender control of two international airports.
The vote held by the Kurdistan Regional Government was nonbinding but was expected to produce an overwhelming yes to break away from Baghdad.
Baghdad has rejected the referendum, calling it unconstitutional.
The international community, including the U.S., also overwhelmingly opposed it.
_____

Photo

 Saudi Arabia said it will finally allow women to drive, ending a policy that has become a symbol of the repression of women in the ultraconservative kingdom.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Momentum to overturn the ban had picked up in recent years, buoyed by the rise of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who has laid out a far-reaching plan to reform the kingdoms economy and society.
_____

Photo

 A Muslim American travel writer wondered if she would be an outsider in an America that has banned travelers from Muslim nations and was shutting its doors to immigrants.
Was she really that unwelcome?
She decided to hit the road to find out, and to explore some exotic, foreign locales.
First stop: Nashvilles Honky Tonk Row.
_____

Photo

 Even as tensions grow over North Koreas nuclear tests and Chinas sanctions, tourists and residents in the border region seemed divided over where to cast blame.
Our correspondent traveled from Yanji to Dandong, along Chinas border with North Korea, to learn more.
Now the whole world worries about what theyll do next, one Chinese retiree said, especially us here in the northeast.
Above, Chinese tourists on a bridge that Chinese troops crossed during the Korean War.
_____

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 AMC Entertainment, the global theater chain majority-owned by Dalian Wanda, invested $20 million in Dreamscape Immersive, which is working on a virtual-reality multiplex.
Unilever, the British-Dutch conglomerate, plans to buy Carver Korea, a popular Asian skin care specialist, for $2.7 billion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Toyota said it would invest more than $373 million in five United States plants to produce its first American-made hybrid powertrain.
Equifaxs chief executive, Richard Smith, stepped down over the hacking breach that exposed the data of some 143 million people.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., recently the head of its Asia-Pacific operations, is interim C.E.O.
Most U.S. stocks were higher.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

 A Thai officials threat to push boats carrying Rohingya refugees back to sea could further worsen the plight of members of the Muslim group fleeing violence in Myanmar.
[Sydney Morning Herald]

 An Australian journalist, Ben McCormack, pleaded guilty to two counts of child pornography and faces up to 15 years in prison.
[ABC News]

 Puerto Ricos governor said the island was on the brink of a humanitarian crisis and that the U.S. commonwealth deserved the same treatment as hurricane-ravaged states.
[The New York Times]

 Mount Agung, on the popular Indonesian island of Bali could erupt any minute.
More than 75,000 people have been evacuated and several nations have issued travel advisories.
[Reuters]

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India announced a $2.5 billion campaign to bring electricity to all households by December 2018.
[BBC]

 Yayoi Kusama, the Japanese artist known for compulsively repetitive images, most famously of polka dots, is opening a museum in Tokyo.
[The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Photo

 After a hurricane or flood, markets are filled with used cars.
Heres how to avoid buying a water-damaged vehicle.
Master the elusive cat-eye eyeliner and add some color at the same time.
Heres how.
Recipe of the day: Try Meera Sodhas roasted broccoli with almonds and cardamom, inspired by a dish she found in Goa.
Noteworthy

Photo

 Some climate-themed apocalyptic novels are starting to feel too close for comfort.
We chose seven, including one set in China in 2098, and asked experts: How likely are they to come true?
Hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires: Natural disasters have struck our planet in quick succession over the last few months.
In this video, a climate reporter explains what is unusual this year.
The Guggenheim agreed to remove three major works from Art and China After 1989: Theater of the World, an exhibition by Chinese conceptual artists, after pressure from animal-rights groups who objected to the treatment of animals.
Back Story

Photo

The box office success of the new film adaptation of Stephen Kings It has put evil clowns front and center.
In Australia, near hysteria broke out after a mysterious Facebook group promised to send 50 clowns to one spot.
The backlash, including threats of violence, looked like a case study of coulrophobia  clown phobia.
Like a fear of masks, terror of clowns stems from the obscuring of the face, according to Corrie Ackland, clinical director at the Sydney Phobia Clinic.
We use peoples facial expressions as such an indicator of safety and their intentions, she explained.
And if we dont get that really important piece of information, then we feel like we should be cautious.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Phobias can form from childhood experiences, critical events later in life, or gradual processes.
With clowns, theres plenty of disturbing material.
In the 1970s, John Wayne Gacy, an amateur clown, tortured and killed at least 33 young men and boys in the U.S. And both the U.S. and Australia grappled with reports in 2016 of clowns terrorizing the public.
Therapy involves gradual exposure in positive settings.
For example, said Ms. Ackland, one might take the patient to see the red-haired clown who hides amid burgers and fries: Ronald McDonald.
Isabella Kwai contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
Browse past briefings here.
We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
I hear fear in their voice, said Shin Won-sik, a three-star general who was the South Korean militarys top operational strategist before he retired in 2015.
They cant fight a war with the Americans when their fighter jets dont even fly far because of lack of fuel and fear of crashing.
Photo

Even as the North has matched Mr. Trumps recent bellicose rhetoric, its military has warned units on the border with South Korea against rash decisions and reminded them to report up the chain of command before taking any action, according to South Korean intelligence officials who briefed lawmakers on Tuesday.
They are careful to avoid an accidental provocation or clash, Lee Cheol-woo, chairman of the South Korean Parliaments intelligence committee, quoted officials as saying during the closed-door session.
The extreme rhetoric on both sides and the unconventional nature of both leaders are widely seen as volatile elements in the current standoff between North Korea and the United States over Pyongyangs nuclear weapons program.
Many people fear that North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, or Mr. Trump might be impulsive enough to start a conflict even if their advisers warn them against it.
But while some longtime observers of North Korea agreed that the situation was fraught with uncertainty, they said it would be wise not to overreact to Pyongyangs aggressive statements.
They may have the will but not the means to fight the Americans, said Shin In-kyun, a military expert who runs the Korea Defense Network, a civic group.
The threat to shoot down a United States bomber is a case in point.
North Korea last shot down an American warplane in 1969, killing all 31 members of the crew of a spy plane that was flying off its coast.
In 1994, it shot down a United States Army helicopter that accidentally crossed into its airspace.
Photo

But today, military analysts said, it would be all but impossible for North Korea to shoot down American warplanes like B-1B strategic bombers, F-15 fighter jets or F-35 stealth fighters, especially if they were flying in international airspace well off the Norths coasts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

North Koreas SA-5 land-to-air missiles have a range of only 155 miles, they said.
American warplanes operate under the protection of radar-jamming technology, and North Koreas aging MiG fighter jets, which are often grounded for lack of fuel and parts, are no match for them, Mr. Shin and other analysts said.
Much as Mr. Trumps aggressive rhetoric about North Korea  like his threat at the United Nations to totally destroy the country  appeals to his core supporters, Mr. Kim needs to demonstrate to his people that he is not backing down from foreign threats, analysts said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But they noted that the North tends to couch its threats, however lurid, with carefully worded conditions.
When North Korea threatened in August to create an enveloping fire around the American territory of Guam with ballistic missiles, its original statement said only that it was seriously examining a plan.
Responding on Friday to Mr. Trumps United Nations speech, Mr. Kim called him a mentally deranged U.S. dotard.
But he did not commit to a course of action, saying only that he would consider the highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history.
And Mr. Ri, the foreign minister, did not say Monday that North Korea would shoot down American bombers, only that it had the right to do so.
Photo

The North Koreans know how to choose their words, said Cheon Seong-whun, a visiting research fellow at the Asan Institute for Policy Studies in Seoul, who served as a presidential secretary for security strategy in South Korea until early this year.
They know how to calculate their stakes.
They are not reckless.
With its threats, North Korea is trying to make the United States think twice about further shows of force, even as it seeks to portray itself as playing defense against an American bully, said Lee Sung-yoon, a Korea expert at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
At the same time, Pyongyang probably hopes China and South Korea will call for calm and restraint, while using Mr. Trumps threats as justification to conduct another missile or nuclear test, Mr. Lee said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

North Korea has to sound tough because it fears that if it is pushed back under American pressure now, it will never regain its ground, said Kim Yong-hyun, a professor of North Korean studies at Dongguk University in Seoul.
It fears that if it backs down, China and Russia wont come to its aid.
Analysts said the lack of a regular, high-level diplomatic contact between Pyongyang and Washington made it likelier that one side would misread the other, rendering the recent bombastic rhetoric all the more dangerous.
The level of mutual understanding between the United States and North Korea is low, while the chances of miscalculation are high, Mr. Cheon said.
Lu Kang, a spokesman for the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said on Tuesday at a regular news conference in Beijing that China was very displeased with the escalating war of words between the United States and North Korea, adding that there would be no winners from rashly triggering war on the peninsula.
A new poll of 2,200 adults by Morning Consult found that only 54 percent of Americans know that people born in Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, are U.S. citizens.
(Because Puerto Rico is not a state, they do not vote in presidential elections, but they send one nonvoting representative to Congress.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This finding varied significantly by age and education.
Only 37 percent of people ages 18 to 29 know people born in Puerto Rico are citizens, compared with 64 percent of those 65 or older.
Similarly, 47 percent of Americans without a college degree know Puerto Ricans are Americans, compared with 72 percent of those with a bachelors degree and 66 percent of those with a postgraduate education.
Inaccurate beliefs on this question matter, because Americans often support cuts to foreign aid when asked to evaluate spending priorities.
In our poll, support for additional aid was strongly associated with knowledge of the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans.
More than 8 in 10 Americans who know Puerto Ricans are citizens support aid, compared with only 4 in 10 of those who do not.
Percent of Americans Who Support Aid for Puerto Rico About half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, and they are more likely to support aid.
Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44 Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44

Being informed about the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans also modestly increases support for aid.
Over all, 64 percent of Americans in the poll who were given no additional information said that Puerto Rico should receive additional government aid to help rebuild the territory, while 14 percent said it was not necessary and 20 percent said they did not know or had no opinion.
But when a random sample of participants was informed that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens before answering this question, support for aid increased four percentage points, to 68 percent.
These effects were especially large for Republicans (+9 percentage points), Trump voters (+10 percentage points) and Hispanic respondents (+12 percentage points).
For example, 67 percent of Trump voters who saw a prompt informing them that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens supported additional aid, compared with 57 percent who did not see the prompt.
These findings are consistent with research showing that people tend to allocate contributions in laboratory games toward fellow members of their group.
They also underline the pivotal role the news media can play in shaping public sympathies.
Previous research has found that competing stories can crowd foreign disasters out of the news, reducing aid provided by the United States.
In this case, the lack of media attention could lead people to ignore Puerto Ricos plight.
Our sympathies for other people depends in part on whether we see them as fellow members of our tribe.
Without more coverage, it may be easy to forget that the people suffering are our fellow Americans.
Morning Consult data was collected from Sept. 22-24, 2017, among a national sample of 2,200 adults.
The interviews were conducted online, and the data was weighted to approximate a target sample of adults based on age, race/ethnicity, gender, educational attainment and region.
5 U.S.

How Special Ops Became Central to the War on Terror
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
Photo

HAR ADAR, West Bank  Each weekday scores of Palestinians from the surrounding West Bank villages line up at a yellow metal barrier on the edge of Har Adar, an affluent Israeli border community, awaiting entry for work.
That quiet routine was disrupted on Tuesday when one worker opened fire, killing three Israeli security personnel and wounding a fourth.
The attacker, a resident of the neighboring Palestinian village of Beit Surik who had regularly worked in Har Adar, was armed with a pistol, according to the police, and was fatally shot at the scene.
The victims were identified as a border police officer, Sgt.
Solomon Gavria, 20, from Beer Yaakov in central Israel, and two civilian security guards, Yusuf Othman of the nearby Arab-Israeli village of Abu Gosh and Or Arish of Har Adar.
Nestled in the pastoral hills northwest of Jerusalem, Har Adar straddles the 1967 boundary, most of it in the occupied West Bank.
Known for its patchwork of peaceful communities and daily cooperation and coexistence between Jews and Arabs, the Israeli authorities refer to the area as the seamline.
Dozens of Israelis have been killed in a wave of Palestinian stabbings, shootings and car-ramming attacks that broke out two years ago.
In a spate of violence in late July linked to renewed tensions over a Jerusalem holy site, three members of an Israeli family were fatally stabbed in their home in another West Bank settlement, and four Palestinians were killed in clashes with Israeli security forces in and around Jerusalem.
The attack on Tuesday shattered weeks of relative calm.
While most of the assailants have been young, single Palestinians, often unemployed, the gunman, identified by the authorities as Nimer Mahmoud Ahmed Jamal, 37, did not fit that profile.
A father of four, Mr. Jamal had an Israeli-issued permit allowing him to work in Har Adar.
Mr. Jamals motives appeared to be more personal than ideological.
A preliminary investigation indicated that Mr. Jamal had significant personal and family problems, including those regarding family violence, Israels Shin Bet internal security agency said in a statement.
The agency added that Mr. Jamals wife fled to Jordan weeks ago, leaving him with their children.
In a private Facebook message to his wife that was later shared on social networks and in the news media Mr. Jamal asked her forgiveness and said she had been a good wife and mother.
I am to blame for mistreating her, he wrote, citing what he called his foolish jealousy.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel vowed that the assailants house would be demolished and that his relatives work permits would be revoked.
This murderous attack is the result, inter alia, of systematic incitement of the Palestinian Authority, and of other elements, Mr. Netanyahu added in broadcast remarks at the start of a cabinet meeting.
Fatah, the mainstream Palestinian movement led by President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, posted an image on its official Facebook page of a poster of Mr. Jamal hailing him as a heroic martyr.
Hamas, the Islamic militant group that controls the Palestinian coastal territory of Gaza, also praised the attack on Twitter.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The United States Embassy in Tel Aviv and Consulate General in Jerusalem issued a joint statement in English and Arabic saying, We condemn in the strongest possible terms todays horrific attack in Har Adar.
We also condemn statements glorifying terrorism and call on all to send a clear message that terrorism must never be tolerated.
Tens of thousands of Palestinian laborers enter Israel on a daily basis, with or without permits.
Many come to work in home renovations, hotels and other service jobs in Nataf, Maaleh Hahamisha, Qiryat Anavim and other Israeli communities in the vicinity of Har Adar and Abu Gosh.
Israeli Jews flock to Abu Gosh, which sits on the Israeli side of the 1967 line, on weekends to shop and eat in the restaurants.
Jawdat Ibrahim, a local celebrity who won the jackpot of millions of dollars in the Illinois State Lottery in 1990, then returned to his hometown, said the area was known for normal life.
Sitting in the Abu Gosh Restaurant, which he owns, he said, There is no difference between Abu Gosh, Nataf and Har Adar.
In Har Adar, parents left work early to pick up their children from school and hugged each other in the streets.
Hours after the attack, several said they were focused on getting back to routine.
One resident, Michal Avidor, told Israel Radio that Mr. Jamal had cleaned her house once a week for the past two and a half years and described him as a pleasant, smiling man and nothing out of the ordinary.
I dont know how to tell my children that for two and a half years a terrorist worked in our house, she said.
Most of the Palestinian workers who had already entered Har Adar on Tuesday were sent home early.
Yaron Arnon, the secretary and treasurer of Har Adars council, said it would be up to the security authorities to decide when to allow them back but added, Nothing will change from our perspective.
Yael Cohen, 42, a mother of three who holds workshops for healthy cooking, said a Palestinian man from another neighboring village had been cleaning her home since she moved to Har Adar 10 years ago.
Ms. Cohen said he had called her on Tuesday morning, from another house where he was working, and asked her for money, worried that he would not be able to get back in to work for a while.
She said she took over some money because I care about him, and I hope he cares about us.
Ms. Cohen said she did not know the assailant personally but she did know Mr. Othman, the security guard from Abu Gosh who was killed.
Mr. Othman had tried to protect the residents of Har Adar, she said, but we did not manage to look after him.
No building is facing more scrutiny than the school.
Almost as soon as soon as rescue workers rushed to pull children from the wreckage, questions multiplied as to whether the owners had broken rules to expand the school over the years.
Ms. Sheinbaum said the school, which was founded in 1983, had been cited twice for building without a permit  first in 2010 and again in 2014.
Both times, the school applied retroactively for a permit, paid the fine and resumed construction, she said in a telephone interview.
Many documents were missing, however, because her predecessor had left Tlalpans offices in chaos, Ms. Sheinbaum said, and she did not know what the school had built on those occasions.
The most important thing is that the building collapsed, she said.
Ms. Sheinbaum has asked Mexicos College of Engineers to carry out the investigation to determine why the older of the schools two buildings gave way.
The building was constructed before strong new regulations came into effect after a deadly earthquake in 1985, and it may never have been upgraded, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under city rules, the school had filed a civil protection plan with the authorities in June, which included up-to-date approvals from inspectors.
An inspector had also reviewed the school after the 8.1 earthquake that devastated parts of the southern states of Oaxaca and Chiapas on Sept. 7, but the school was not required to submit that report.
The earthquake last week, which was centered in the state of Morelos to the south of Mexico City, affected Tlalpan, in the south of the capital, with more force than any other part of the city.
Most earthquakes occur off the Pacific Coast, and their waves intensify in the soft soil below the capital.
The impact of the earthquake may push officials to tighten building codes or review how they are enforced.
We live in a city of enormous vulnerability, Ms. Sheinbaum said.
We need to assure safety for millions of people.
At the Pentagon, several Defense officials expressed anger that years of close work could be jeopardized by what one characterized as a casual process that failed to take into account Americas long-term interests in the region.
Current and former officials at the United States Africa Command, which works closely with the Chadian military to fight Islamic extremists in north and central Africa, said they could not explain the inclusion and referred inquiries to the White House.
Carter Ham, a retired general who formerly headed the Africa Command, called the decision to put Chad on the list puzzling.
The presidents proclamation said Chad does not adequately share public safety and terrorism-related information and fails to satisfy at least one key risk criterion.
Administration officials declined to provide details, but the White House and the Homeland Security Department defended the move.
This was not a subjective exercise, said Dave Lapan, a Homeland Security spokesman.
We laid out a very clear baseline of the information we needed from all countries, and all countries were measured equally to determine whether they met that baseline.
The presidents national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R.
McMaster, acknowledged the disagreement within the administration over banning travel from Chad and raised the possibility that the decision could be reversed.
That list is not fixed, he told an audience at a Washington conference on Monday.
On Chad, there was a real debate.
He said that Chad was included because of concerns over sharing of data with American officials, but added that maybe in a couple of months they can get there on meeting American requirements.
The development of the travel ban was an intense process that included the departments of State and Homeland Security, the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and the White House, federal officials said.
After officials from across the government developed a baseline that established what each country must do to allow travel to the United States, American diplomats worked with other nations to meet the standards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On a phone call set up by the White House to brief reporters about the ban, a State Department official asserted that the agency was fully engaged in the development of the list.
But other officials at both the State Department and the Pentagon disputed that characterization.
To me, what they did makes absolutely no sense whatsoever, none, zero, said John Campbell, former United States ambassador to Nigeria who is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
He called the White House assertion that Chad has not done enough on data sharing really, really weak.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if the restrictions on travel from Chad are eased, the ban will have a lasting effect, Africa experts predicted.
This confusion over the treatment of a key U.S. ally on combating terrorism sends the message that the United States cannot be trusted as a reliable partner, said Monde Muyangwa, director of the Africa program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Chads strongman leader, Idriss Dby, was surprised by the decision, officials there said, and the government in NDjamena issued a statement on Monday expressing astonishment and incomprehension in the face of the official reasons for this decision, which contrasts with Chads constant efforts and commitments in the fight against terrorism at regional and global levels.
Defense officials said the designation could prompt Chad to curb its cooperation on counterterrorism.
Chad, with a mixed population of Muslims and Christians, borders countries that have struggled to harness militant activity  Libya, Sudan, Nigeria, Niger and the Central African Republic.
It has battled Islamic terrorists in the region, including offshoots of Al Qaeda and Boko Haram.
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chads foreign minister who worked to fight terrorism in central Africa, was named to head the African Union Commission this year.
Chads military has worked closely with Americans, playing host to exercises conducted by the United States.
It is a major partner in an effort involving several countries in the Lake Chad basin to fight Boko Haram and has deployed 700 troops along border areas to prevent infiltration by the Islamist group.
American officials have mostly ignored complaints that Mr. Dby has overseen an authoritarian regime, Africa experts said, in large part because of his staunch support for counterterrorism.
A State Department report from last year focused in large part on the countrys counterterrorism work, though it noted a financial crisis has kept the government from consistently paying the police and the military.
J. Peter Pham, an Atlantic Council Africa specialist who has been considered by the Trump administration for the job of assistant secretary of state for African affairs, suggested in a telephone interview on Tuesday that one reason for Chads inclusion on the list was that the country has played a somewhat duplicitous role against Boko Haram, and only cracked down on the group after its trade routes became endangered.
Mr. Pham acknowledged that Chad is geographically, a country one doesnt want to alienate.
But, he said, that on some issues, theyve been a necessary partner but not a wholehearted one.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chads military has crossed the border to help its neighbor, Nigeria, retake territory from Boko Haram.
That was Gov.
Ricardo Rossell of Puerto Rico, pleading with federal officials for aid to avert a humanitarian crisis.
He said a mass exodus of Puerto Ricans to the mainland was imminent.
The entire island is still without power; much of it is without water or fuel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But a new poll found that only slightly more than half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are, in fact, also Americans.
Here are the basics on the islands peculiar political status.
President Trump defended the federal response and said he would visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
He may stop in the U.S. Virgin Islands, which also sustained terrible damage.
_____

Photo

3.
Saudi Arabia announced that it would finally allow women to take the wheel.
The decision was announced on state TV and in a simultaneous media event in Washington, highlighting the damage that the policy has done to the kingdoms international reputation.
Activists like Aziza Yousef, above, have long fought for the change.
Their campaign was buoyed by the rise of the young Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who has pushed to overhaul the economy and loosen social restrictions.
_____

Photo

4.
Republican voters are going to the polls in Alabama in the primary for the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Well have live coverage here as the results come in.
Senator Luther Strange, the interim incumbent, is backed by the White House and Senator Mitch McConnell.
Mr. Stranges challenger, the conservative judge Roy Moore, above, has Stephen Bannon in his corner.
Mr. Bannon spoke at a rally for Mr. Moore in Fairhope last night, in his first public appearance since leaving the White House.
Vice President Mike Pence joined Mr.
Strange at a rally in Birmingham.
_____

Photo

5.
We visited the river between North Korea and China to see how tensions are affecting life there.
Sanctions have hobbled trade, and people on the Chinese side were divided over whether to blame North Korea or the U.S.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I hate America, one trader said.
Why dont they let me do any business?
Despite North Koreas tough talk, some analysts see a leadership anxious to avoid a war it cant win.
Above, a rally in Pyongyang this week.
_____

Photo

6.
The head of Equifax, Richard Smith, above, stepped down in the wake of its enormous data breach, which exposed the personal information of millions of Americans.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., recently the head of the companys Asia-Pacific operations, is the interim chief executive.
The company had faced a blistering outcry from lawmakers and the public for failing to protect the sensitive data and for a response that many considered utterly inadequate.
_____

Photo

7.
One of our best-read articles today is from this weeks Times Magazine: How Fake News Turned a Small Town Upside Down.
It tells the story of how, at the height of the 2016 election, exaggerated reports of a juvenile sex crime brought a media maelstrom to Twin Falls, Idaho  one the city still hasnt recovered from.
Above, the mayor, Shawn Barigar.
_____

Photo

8.
Ten people involved at the highest levels of college basketball, including a senior executive at Adidas, are facing federal corruption charges.
Prosecutors said they uncovered a scheme to bribe star players to work with specific agents and companies when they turned pro, or to convince promising high schoolers to attend specific universities.
Above, a scene from last years N.C.A.A.
mens tournament.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

_____

Photo

9.
The Guggenheim agreed to remove three major works by Chinese conceptual artists from a new exhibition after protests from animal-rights groups.
The works were intended to symbolically depict oppression in China.
One video shows four pairs of pit bulls on treadmills, trying to fight as they struggle to touch.
Another shows two pigs mating in front of an audience.
The third work features hundreds of live reptiles and insects.
Artists are blasting the museum over the decision.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

_____

Photo

10.
Finally, our food writer has become an Instant Pot fanatic.
She acquired one for an article a year ago, and liked it so much that she never unplugged it.
Now shes written an entire cookbook of recipes for it, as well as an in-depth guide at NYT Cooking.
Theres no other single gadget that can make weeknight cooking easier, she gushes.
Above, making baby back ribs.
Have a great night.
_____

The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And dont miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to catch up on past briefings?
You can browse them here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What did you like?
What do you want to see here?
Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
No surprise there: Last spring, when Ms. Kusamas work was exhibited at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, the show attracted record numbers of visitors who stood in long lines for the chance to spend 20 or 30 seconds in each mirrored room.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In an effort to limit crowds in the new Tokyo museum, only 50 visitors will be admitted at a time for one of four 90-minute slots per day.
The building, designed by the architectural firm Kume Sekkei, stands five stories high in Shinjuku, a residential neighborhood close to Ms. Kusamas studio and the psychiatric hospital where she has lived voluntarily since 1977.
Photo

Designed as five large cubes stacked on top of each other, the museum features galleries with high ceilings, pristine white walls and curved corners.
White polka dots are stenciled onto glass panels lining the front of the building.
Museum staff declined to say how much it had cost to build.
Ms. Kusama selected all of the art that appears in the inaugural exhibition, Creation Is a Solitary Pursuit, Love Is What Brings You Closer to Art, which includes mostly recent work and runs until Feb. 25.
Exhibitions will be rotated every six months.
It will probably be a mecca for Kusama, said Yasuaki Ishizaka, the former head of Sothebys in Japan and now an art adviser.
She is one of the first Japanese  the only Japanese perhaps  who has a really popular worldwide following, whether its Asia, Europe or the States, or whether its with elderly or younger people.
Ms. Kusama said she creates her works during a process of obsessive concentration and hallucinations.In 2014, one of her works, White No.
28, sold for $7.1 million, with premium, at Christies.
The new exhibition includes 45 pieces, 16 of which are part of the series My Eternal Soul  large, electric-colored acrylic paintings that Ms. Kusama has been working on since 2009 and that were exhibited at the National Art Center in Tokyo earlier this year.
Photo

Ms. Kusama has continued to work on the series, producing a painting every day or two; four works that have never been shown in public before are displayed in a large open room on the museums third floor.
One of her signature mirror-lined rooms, with rows of yellow and black pumpkins reflected into infinity, is installed on the fourth floor.
A large gold and pink mosaic-tiled pumpkin sculpture sits in a room on the top floor overlooking a vista of apartment blocks, with the laundry drying on the balconies across the street offering a prosaic backdrop to Ms. Kusamas mesmerizing work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Summing up her philosophy of art, Ms. Kusama said, I hope that you will continue to understand my spirit and that this is for the benefit of world peace and love.
In an interview in her studio after the media preview, Ms. Kusama, dressed in a yellow and black polka-dot print caftan, a fiery red wig and a streak of red paint splashed on her right shoe, continued the theme of world peace.
Photo

Although she did not address specific current events like the nuclear crisis in North Korea, she said she wanted her art to contribute to happiness for human beings and a world without war.
Ms. Kusama, who was born in 1929 in the mountain town of Matsumoto, began painting from hallucinations she experienced as a young girl.
Some of her antiwar sentiments stem from the fact that she lived through World War II in Japan, going to work at a military factory to sew parachutes when she was just 13 years old.
She was abused by her mother and has spoken openly about her mental neuroses.
In an interview with Tamaki Saito, a Japanese psychiatrist, in his 2008 book, Artists Dance on the Borderline, she recalled that she had undergone six years of Freudian analysis in New York but that the treatment had stymied her creativity.
Ideas stopped coming out no matter what I painted or drew, she said, because everything was coming out of my mouth.
Photo

Asked at her studio about the relationship between her psychiatric condition and her art, her handlers suggested the question was too sensitive.
But Ms. Kusama insisted on answering.
Since I was 10 years old I have been painting every day, she said.
And even now there is not a day that I do not paint.
She added, I still see polka dots everywhere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Her goal, she said, sitting in front of two new works in her studio, is to keep going.
I am just trying to struggle, always, she said.
Art is everything for me and I have been struggling for art.
She said she frequently hears from museums around the world wanting to stage exhibitions of her work.
I am just trying to concentrate on painting, she said.
An assistant rolled her back to a table where a large sky-blue canvas rested.
Ms. Kusama picked up a small brush from a dish of black acrylic paint, and carried on painting columns of catlike eyes that she had started that morning.
It could provide Kurdish leaders with leverage in talks with the central government in Baghdad, in particular over the contested status of the oil-rich city of Kirkuk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Meanwhile, in neighboring Syria, even some longtime rebel supporters have grown war-weary and started to embrace the inevitable: President Bashar al-Assad looks as though he is there to stay.
One of our editors spent some time with a group of Kurdish refugees who were resettled in County Leitrim, Ireland.
The traditional Irish sport of hurling helped some integrate.
_____

Photo

 A declaration of war.
Thats what North Koreas foreign minister, Ri Yong-ho, said President Trumps threats amounted to.
Mr. Ri asserted the Norths right to shoot down U.S. warplanes even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country.
We have not declared war, the White House responded.
Some civilian airlines, including Lufthansa and Scandinavian, have changed their flight routes in the region in recent weeks amid concerns of an accidental strike.
_____

Photo

 In Washington, rights advocates immediately challenged President Trumps new travel ban, which is set to go into effect Oct. 18.
The Supreme Court canceled a hearing on Mr. Trumps previous travel ban.
Remember Hillary Clintons emails?
We learned that at least six close advisers of Mr. Trump occasionally used private email accounts to discuss White House matters.
The content and the frequency of such email exchanges remain unknown.
And after Mr. Trump fueled a wave of football protests to shore up his base, we collected some of the best reactions from the right and left.
Some entertainers including Pharrell Williams showed solidarity with the players.
_____

Photo

 Puerto Rico is on the brink of a humanitarian crisis, its governor said after the U.S. territory was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Recognize that we Puerto Ricans are American citizens, he said in a plea for help from Washington.
The more than 3.4 million residents have little water and remain without power.
Hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires: Natural disasters have struck our planet in quick succession over the last few months.
In this video, a climate reporter explains what is usual and unusual this year.
Weve answered readers questions on climate change, including on reasons some deny its existence.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 A 21-foot cactus.
A war room.
Nothing is too strange for American cities wooing Amazon to build its new headquarters there.
Ubers chief executive, reacting to the loss of the companys ride-hailing license in London, issued an open-letter apology for the companys mistakes, but it didnt specify what they were.
ABB Group, the Swiss engineering firm, said that it would buy General Electrics industrial solutions business for $2.6 billion.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

 In Poland, President Andrzej Duda, above, offered his own draft versions of legislation meant to restructure the Polish court system.
The compromise is likely to go too far for the government, but not far enough for its critics, who fear that judicial independence is undermined.
[The New York Times]

 Russia has committed multiple and grave human rights abuses  including arbitrary detentions, torture and abductions  in Crimea since occupying the territory three years ago, U.N. investigators said.
[The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 A Palestinian man opened fire outside an Israeli settlement near Jerusalem, killing three Israeli men and critically wounding a fourth.
The attacker was then shot dead.
[The New York Times]

 Many police officers in Catalonia are caught between their oaths to Spains Constitution and their personal sympathies toward secession from the country.
[Associated Press]

 A last-ditch attempt by Senate Republicans to dismantle the Affordable Care Act appeared to collapse, as a pivotal senator declared her opposition.
[The New York Times]

 Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman, was sentenced to 21 months in prison for exchanging lewd texts with a 15-year-old girl.
[The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Photo

 How to find a qualified dog trainer.
(Above, this writers dog, who is usually a good boy.)
Recipe of the day: Try shaved brussels sprouts salad with pecorino and walnuts.
Are your retirement savings on course?
Here are some tips, and more in this weeks newsletter.
Noteworthy

Photo

 In our latest magazine issue, we explored how families around the world spend their vacations and ask whether its really possible for tourists to experience a country as locals do.
Above, sunbathers in Odessa, Ukraine.
Napolis San Paolo stadium is among the most menacing stops in the Champions League, in part thanks to a local radio D.J.s thunderous announcements.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 The internet is abuzz with photos of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, the actress, making their first official public appearance as a couple.
Jos Carreras, the Catalan tenor, reflects on his plan to retire: I realize that the end is very close  so I enjoy it more and more.
Our fashion editors brought back five styling tips from London Fashion Week, including, controversially, that its O.K.
to wear socks with sandals.
Back Story

Photo

Thirty-four years ago today, a faulty missile warning took the world close to its first nuclear exchange.
But life as we know it continued thanks to one Soviet officers cool head.
In the early hours of Sept. 26, 1983, a Soviet computer system reported the launch of five Minuteman missiles.
There were only minutes to counterattack before the missiles could strike Soviet cities.
Lt. Col. Stanislav Petrov was in charge of the system that day.
He was skeptical, partly because the attack seemed too small.
After tense analysis, and a report by satellite radar operators registering no missiles, he alerted his superiors to a false alarm.
He later recalled it as a 50-50 decision.
He was right.
One of the Soviet satellites that informed the early warning system had misinterpreted the suns reflection off clouds.
Colonel Petrov faded into obscurity until a memoir in the late 1990s highlighted his role.
His death in May was widely reported only last week.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel in 2010 (published in German), he expounded on his decision: We are wiser than the computers, he said.
We created them.
Believe me, he added.
Im not a hero.
I just did my job.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
This briefing was prepared for the European morning.
Browse past briefings here.
We also have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Not anymore.
This time around Etro and Missoni joined Bottega Veneta and Gucci in merging mens and womens wear, and the results were additive: a richer, deeper visual portrait that showed in high-res how a designers vision could iterate for the sexes, and how the wardrobe lessons  and fabrics, and tonal combinations  of one gender are transferable to the other (and vice versa).
Perhaps its time fashion caught up to the rest of the world, and stopped separating its citizens once and for all.
Video

Jeremy Scott Gave Us a Garden of Supermodels in Bloom

Jeremy Scott likes to root his collections in the unashamedly and unequivocally absurd.
On Thursday night, this premise blossomed into the idea of a vibrant garden full of flowers, brought to life by the starriest models of the moment.
How exactly did his Moschino garden grow?
With Gigi Hadid and Kaia Gerber as walking bouquets, with glossy ribbons around their waists and flowers blooming from their boots and dresses of paper folds.
Joan Smalls had a skirt of quivering red roses with stalks sticking out of her bustier, while Anna Cleveland, shrouded in giant silk pink petals, plucked them from her bodice as she made her way down the runway.
Then came flower-encrusted cat suits and car coats, both with round matching hats, and a giant lilac puffball dress, embroidered with hundreds of floating butterflies.
It was ridiculous and outrageous and yet also sublime.
Backstage, Mr. Scott said that this was his intention, as the world becomes an evermore volatile and unstable place.
You know in the Depression era, when people went to see a double feature for a nickel and they would be transported from the fact they had no food, no job?
he said.
I have to stay superpositive, because I have to give that positivity to people.
Never have florals as a spring trend felt so fitting.
Photo

It Turns Out Logomania Is Here to Stay

And you thought the weird trend of wearing someone elses initials all over your person was over.
As if!
This is fashion: everything old is new again.
Gucci once splashed its name across sweatshirts, Versace plastered its logo on pastel T-shirts, MaxMara resurrected an archive logo and transformed it into a print on skirts and jackets and bags (often all worn together), and Fendi printed its double F on mink jackets, totes, belts, nylon mesh skirts and even transparent socks.
Its a way for everyone to be part of our family, said Silvia Fendi before her show.
Its less of a commitment than marriage, anyway.
Photo

Vionnet Brought Us to The Last Supper

The Vionnet designer Goga Ashkenazi created ethereal gowns for her spring 2018 collection, but her greatest accomplishment was a feat of access: She became the first person to stage a runway show in the Basilica di Santa Maria Delle Grazie, a former convent and Unesco World Heritage site in the heart of Milan.
The site is home to the citys most famous wall mural, The Last Supper by Leonardo da Vinci, commissioned in the 15th century by Ludovico Sforza, the Duke of Milan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Just before 9 in the evening, after Ms. Ashkenazi took her bow, a small group of editors were given a private viewing of the work, in the quiet, high-ceilinged refectory of the basilica.
It was certainly the most spiritual moment of Milan fashion week.
ALEXA BRAZILIAN, fashion features director, T magazine

Photo

At Prada, Short Hair Was Everywhere

In 1988, the hairdresser Julien Dys took his scissors to Linda Evangelistas shoulder-length brown hair and gave her a short, boyish pixie haircut.
The look inspired copycats everywhere  as it had 20 years earlier with Twiggy, the 60s supermodel.
Now, after several years of long, wavy beach hair, short-haired models are back.
At Prada, several women had sported short, boyish haircuts, including Amandine Renard, who is on the latest cover of Self Service magazine; Ninouk Akkerman; a platinum Sarah Fraser; Akima; and the newcomer Gisele Fox, who closed the show.
Hairdressers can rejoice: Your clients will likely be asking for a cut after all these years.
M.J.G.
Photo

We Got a Peek at Some of the Magic Interiors of Milan

Some of the best sights to be seen in Milan can be found behind the closed doors of the citys many centuries-old private homes.
During fashion week, a few of them were opened to host special presentations and parties.
Delfina Pinardi, Corrada Rodriguez DAcri and Sole Torlonia, the stylish designers behind the jacket line Blaz Milano, presented their spring offering in the only building on the via Borgonuovo that survived World War II bombings in 1943.
The ornate ground-floor apartment has been owned by a Milanese family for generations.
A parrot lives in the houses quiet back garden, where a few models wearing the brands tailored blazers and dresses swung on a hammock while editors sipped cocktails.
Attico, a new label started by two young Italian tastemakers, staged what felt like an insanely elegant house party in the living room of a privately owned apartment decorated by the Italian interior designer Renzo Mongiardino.
There were pink margaritas and models clad in 60s-inspired disco-ready dresses and jumpsuits.
And in the evening, Alison Loehnis, the president of Net-a-Porter, hosted a cocktail party in a fresco-filled private villa with an expansive garden dating back to the 13th century, adding a touch of old-school Italian magic to the weeks festivities.
Photo

Angela Missoni Celebrated a Big Anniversary

To celebrate 20 years as creative director of the label her parents started, Angela Missoni designed a spring collection that was shown alfresco under a rainbow-colored canopy created by Rachel Hayes, an artist Ms. Missoni had found on Instagram.
The show, which was also one year shy of Missonis 65th anniversary, was the first time the Italian label combined mens and womens styles, and it included recognizable totems of the brand including interpretations of its colorful zigzag pattern and lots of sparkly party-ready Lurex.
In the evening, Missoni threw a lavish family-style dinner party for editors and friends, serving Italian dishes including fresh ricotta sprinkled with pomegranates and providing a satisfying end to a long and colorful week.
Although these works have been exhibited in museums in Asia, Europe and the United States, the Guggenheim regrets that explicit and repeated threats of violence have made our decision necessary, it said in a statement posted on its website.
As an arts institution committed to presenting a multiplicity of voices, we are dismayed that we must withhold works of art.
Freedom of expression has always been and will remain a paramount value of the Guggenheim.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Criticism of the show grew quickly online, on social media and on animal-rights websites, with the initial focus on Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other.
The museum tried to quell the backlash last Thursday, releasing a statement acknowledging that the work was difficult to view but encouraging patrons to consider what the piece may be saying about the social conditions of globalization and the complex nature of the world we share.
A spokeswoman for the museum said Thursday that it was not a question that it would stay in the exhibition.
But the criticism only grew over the weekend.
On Monday, the president of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals said that only sick individuals could enjoy watching Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, and the American Kennel Club said that dogfighting should not be displayed in any manner and certainly not as art.
Photo

Two works removed by the Guggenheim have come under previous criticism.
Huang Yong Ping, who created Theater of the World, withdrew it from a show in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2007 rather than comply with a request from an animal rights group to remove scorpions and tarantulas from it.
Mr. Huang said by telephone from Paris that he had no comment on the Guggenheims action.
He said the museum had not informed him about the decision to withdraw his piece.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I am hearing about this for the first time, he said.
Peng Yu, who created Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other with her husband, Sun Yuan, denied her art was animal cruelty.
These dogs are naturally pugnacious, Ms. Peng said in an interview last year.
Reached in Beijing on Tuesday, Ms. Peng blamed the controversy on a recent article about the exhibition.
I dont want to talk about this anymore, she said, adding that the dogs were examined by veterinarians before and after they were used in the performance.
The Guggenheim originally agreed to include the third piece, A Case Study of Transference, but only as a video of a Beijing performance.
The boar and sow are stamped with gibberish composed of nonsensical English words and invented Chinese characters  intended to make patrons consider the relationship between the West and China.
Hurricane Maria wiped out vast swaths of plantain, banana and coffee crops, above.
Heres how to help.
_____

Photo

3.
The Supreme Court canceled a hearing on President Trumps last travel ban in light of the new one announced Sunday night.
The justices asked lawyers to advise whether the questions on the earlier order were now moot.
And rights advocates immediately challenged the new ban, which is set to go into effect Oct. 18.
Again citing national security, it indefinitely bars most citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea.
Iraqis and some groups in Venezuela will also face new scrutiny.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, said the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
A revised refugee admission policy is expected within days.
Above, the arrivals terminal at Kennedy Airport.
_____

Photo

4.
After President Trump fueled a wave of football protests, we chronicled what every N.F.L.
team did during the national anthem on Sunday, and collected the best writing from the right and left.
On our podcast The Daily, our sports columnist explained how the president has forced athletes to become more political than ever.
We also took a look at the long history of protests by black athletes  and how often their actions angered mostly white fans and officials.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Before the Monday Night Football game, the Dallas Cowboys, above, linked arms in the middle of the University of Phoenix Stadium field in Glendale, Ariz., and collectively took a knee before the national anthem was played.
They were joined by the teams owner, Jerry Jones.
_____

Photo

5.
Senator Susan Collins of Maine said that she would oppose the latest plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, leaving Republican leaders clearly short of the votes they need for passage.
The announcement was a significant and possibly fatal blow to the partys seven-year quest to dismantle the health law.
Above, protesters disrupted a committee hearing about the bill.
And in news about former denizens of Capitol Hill, Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman, was sentenced to 21 months in prison for exchanging lewd texts with a 15-year-old girl.
_____

Photo

6.
At least six of President Trumps closest advisers occasionally used private email addresses to discuss White House matters, current and former officials said.
The list includes Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump.
Gary Cohn, above left with the couple, also sent or received at least a few emails on a personal account.
Steve Bannon, Reince Priebus and Stephen Miller were also on the list.
Officials are supposed to use government emails for their official duties so their conversations are available to the public.
During the campaign, Mr. Trump harped on Hillary Clintons use of a private account as secretary of state, using it to paint her as untrustworthy.
_____

Photo

7.
In Iraq, results are expected within a day or two for the Kurds referendum on independence, above.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The expected strong yes vote wont lead to independence anytime soon, but could provide Kurdish leaders leverage for the future.
The cost could be high: Turkey and Iran have threatened to close borders and impose sanctions, and Iraq considers the vote illegal.
We also have the latest on the fallout from Germanys elections.
Heres the story behind Alternative for Germany, the far-right party that made big gains.
_____

Photo

8.
Cities around the country are scrambling to woo Amazon, which is on the hunt for a second headquarters somewhere in North America.
In Tucson, they tried to mail the companys founder, Jeff Bezos, a 21-foot cactus.
Philadelphia said it would consider changing its tax code.
Canada is highlighting its more liberal immigration policy as a boon to a business that needs lots of engineers.
Above, its existing headquarters in Seattle.
Its like The Amazing Race, said Jim Watson, the mayor of Ottawa.
Youve got this cast of characters running toward the Holy Grail.
Applications are due Oct. 19.
_____

Photo

9.
Some good news: Infant and maternal tetanus was officially eliminated from the Americas this year.
At one time, the infection killed about 10,000 newborns a year in the Western Hemisphere.
It still kills about 35,000 infants around the world annually.
Above, a vaccination program in Haiti.
Health officials announced the milestone at the United Nations.
They also reported significant advances against malaria and H.I.V.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

_____

Photo

10.
Finally, scientists in Costa Rica are in a race to save the worlds favorite treat.
We visited the International Cacao Collection, which breeds an astonishing diversity of cacao trees.
(Cacao, of course, is used to make chocolate.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Costa Ricas genetically narrow crop was decimated in the late 70s by a fungus called monilia, or frosty pod rot  and diversity offers a way to avoid a repeat.
Have a great night.
_____

The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And dont miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to catch up on past briefings?
You can browse them here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What did you like?
What do you want to see here?
Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Different restrictions were imposed on each of the three additions, depending on the threat they were deemed to pose.
For example, for Venezuela the ban applies only to visits by certain government officials and their families, while Somalis are barred from emigrating to the United States but not from visiting.
Chad, an Ally Against Militants, Asks, Why Us?
The addition of Chad to Mr. Trumps travel ban took that countrys government by surprise and bewildered analysts of Central Africa.
With a mixed population of Muslims and Christians, Chad has been a longtime American ally in fighting Islamist militants in the region, including offshoots of Al Qaeda and Boko Haram, and its troops took part in a French-led effort to root out Islamist militants from parts of Mali in 2013.
In a statement, the government expressed  incomprehension in the face of the official reasons for this decision, which contrasts with Chads constant efforts and commitments in the fight against terrorism.
It called on President Trump to rethink the decision, which has seriously affected the image of Chad and the good relations maintained by the two countries.
In a report on Chad last year, the State Department said that few Chadians join terrorist groups, and that the country had tightened its borders to impede the movements of militants, but that a financial crisis kept the country from consistently paying police and military salaries, which presented some risk.
Matthew Page, who was the State Departments expert in the region until last year, said that the travel ban for Chad seemed to be a knee-jerk move, rather than a carefully considered decision.
Experts said there were many steps Chad could take in response that would have a negative impact on the United States, including reducing security protection for employees of the large American embassy.
Also at stake are oil exploration plans from companies like Exxon Mobil.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is a very draconian move that could put Americans in harms way, Mr.
Page said.
There is no incentive to labeling Chadians soft on terrorism, which they definitely are not.
Human rights activists also expressed outrage.
This makes no sense at all, even from a Trumpian standpoint, said Reed Brody, a lawyer for Human Rights Watch who has worked extensively in Chad.
Victims of a former Chadian president, Hissne Habr, who is accused of torturing and murdering opponents during his rule in the 1980s, regularly travel to the United States to collect humanitarian awards.
Think of all the courageous and dedicated activists who will now be barred from the U.S., Mr. Brody said.
DIONNE SEARCEY and JAIME YAYA BARRY

Photo

Cheers From Trump Supporters

Supporters of the presidents national security agenda cheered the new policy on Monday.
Im excited, said Louis Murray, 52, who campaigned for the president in Boston as part of a group of Catholics for Trump.
Im excited that the Department of Homeland Security and the Trump Administration has looked very hard at how to use extreme vetting to keep Americans safe.
Mr. Murray said he viewed the administrations broad travel policies as the best way to prevent attacks like the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013, which was carried out by two beneficiaries of the asylum system.
When youre talking about the movement of people across national borders, I dont know how specific you want to be, he said.
Conservative lawmakers also called the new travel ban a necessary public safety measure.
We are a compassionate nation, Representative Lou Barletta, Republican of Pennsylvania, said in a statement.
However, our enemies continuously seek to use our generosity against us, and the president has a duty to protect the American people first.
On Twitter, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, supported the inclusion of Venezuela in the new policy, saying in Spanish that it was correct to block officials of the corrupt Maduro regime and their families from making shopping trips to the United States or patronizing Disney amusement parks.
CAITLIN DICKERSON

Dismay Among Somalis in Minnesota

Somali-Americans in the Cedar-Riverside area of Minneapolis processed the news of the travel ban as they went about their business in the rain on Monday, voicing wariness of an administration that has frightened them from the start and trying to learn more about the details of the ban.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Slma Osman, 29, said she had just put her three toddlers to bed Sunday evening when she heard about the travel ban on television, and the news made her cry.
She emigrated from Somalia a year ago to join her husband, and the new ban seemed to scotch her dream of bringing her parents over to unite with her children.
I feel lonely, she said, walking to a bus stop on her way to work.
When my children grow up, they will feel the pain.
Jamal Hassen, 23, a student in the Twin Cities who was born in Ethiopia to a Somali mother, said he worried about her.
Our moms are going to the mall by themselves, and get harassed because of their head scarves  especially after he got elected, Mr. Hassen said.
It was calm before that.
Mr. Hassen did not dispute President Trumps claim that Somalias immigration officials do not adequately vet extremists.
Some Somali-Americans from the Twin Cities have been recruited by Islamic extremist groups abroad, but Mr. Hassen said it was unfair that all Somalis must pay a price.
We are getting punished for what they did, he said.
Kamaal Yusuf, 32, a taxi driver born in Somalia who emigrated as a teenager, heard about the travel ban in a coffee shop after driving his sons to day care.
I feel very sad, he said.
America is supposed to welcome immigrants from all over the world.
Thats the good I see in America.
Now its messed up.
The Somali minister of information, Abdirahman O. Osman, said in a statement that Somalia was grateful for American assistance and support in reducing the threat posed by terrorists, and that American policy should focus on the terrorists, not on ordinary Somalis.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Somalis in the U.S. are making valuable contributions to the U.S. society, which is why our young people are hoping to visit one day to the U.S., Mr. Osman said.
Somalis are a peace-loving people, and it is terrorists who are damaging our good names.
CHRISTINA CAPECCHI and KIMIKO de FREYTAS-TAMURA

Photo

Venezuela Is Angered, but migrs Are Pleased

Venezuelas Foreign Ministry blasted the travel ban on Monday as an irrational decision that constituted a form of political and psychological terrorism, and asserted that the United States was trying to stigmatize our country using the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
Venezuela also said that it would consider retaliating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the travel ban, which would bar business and tourism visits to the United States by certain Venezuelan government officials and their immediate family members, drew the opposite reaction among Venezuelans who have fled the country since the rise to power of Hugo Chvez, who died in 2013, and his ally Nicols Maduro, the current president.
In fact, Alicia Reyes was nothing short of ecstatic about the new restrictions.
Theyre dogs, rats, the worst in the world, Ms. Reyes, 53, said of Mr. Maduro and his party.
She moved to Weston, in South Florida, from her native Caracas 18 months ago because of the erosion of social order there, which she blamed squarely on the government.
The people in Venezuela are dying of hunger, Ms. Reyes, who works in a pizza restaurant, added in Spanish.
We couldnt stay there any longer.
There is no future there.
Mr. Trump has feuded with the Venezuelan leadership; last month, he alarmed officials in Caracas by talking about a military option to quell the chaos in the country.
Jorge Arreaza, the Venezuelan foreign minister, lashed out at Mr. Trump in a speech at the United Nations on Monday.
Another Venezuelan migr, Maru Vasquez, 37, who works behind the counter in the Pan Pa Ya bakery, said she supported the ban in general terms but was bothered by its inclusion of officials relatives.
Its a terrible generalization, said Ms. Vasquez.
There must be people in those families who are innocent.
Its not fair to them.
NICK MADIGAN, NICHOLAS CASEY and SOMINI SENGUPTA

Thwarted Reunion Plans For Iranian Families

In Los Angeles, the large Iranian diaspora centered on the Westwood neighborhood spent Monday morning puzzling over the bans potential impact.
It had not yet sunk in with many people that the new decree would block most Iranians not only from emigrating to the United States, but also from visiting; only students and scholars would be allowed in.
People havent paid attention yet to understand how this might change the life of their family, said Farhad Bersharati, who owns a travel agency in Westwood.
If I was in the shoes of President Trump, I might do the same thing with the kind of people who are ruling my country now.
But putting the people who are still there all together with the revolution is not fair.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many of the more than one million Iranian-Americans have relatives remaining in Iran.
They will no longer be able to sponsor them for permanent residence.
Alex Helmi, who owns a Persian rug store in Westwood, questioned the purpose of the ban and said he was confident that the Supreme Court would rule fairly on it.
What is the goal here  is it propaganda, or stopping terrorism?
he said.
You have not found one Iranian person who has been connected with any terrorism in this country.
This is a little bit odd.
A spokesman for Irans Foreign Ministry, Bahram Qasemi, called the expanded travel ban inhumane, wrong and illogical.
The new travel ban does not affect the status of anyone who is already in the United States legally, so people like Negi Kharazi who have immigrant visas can still get the green cards they have been waiting for.
But now, Ms. Kharazi will not be able to bring Babak, her husband of five years, over from Iran.
How can I be without my husband?
she said.
This is so mean.
Our own government does not care, and the U.S. government does not care.
We are disposable.
JENNIFER MEDINA and THOMAS ERDBRINK

Hardships Seen Even for Permitted Students

It was not immediately clear what led to a special carve-out that permits Iranian students, but not most other Iranians, to continue to obtain visas.
Iran sends more students to America than the other countries affected by the ban  12,269 of them in the 2015-16 academic year, according to the Institute of International Education  and many are graduate students in scientific fields who also serve as teaching assistants.
Pedram Gharghabi, 31, a doctoral candidate and research assistant in electrical engineering at Mississippi State University, said on Monday that the ban would probably lead to hardships even for exempted students.
My understanding is that our families will not be allowed to enter the United States for a visit, Mr. Gharghabi said.
Because many Iranian students visas do not permit the students to leave and come back, he said, that means we may not meet our families for years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Amin Khalili, 22, who is studying for a masters degree in biomedical engineering at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., learned of the new rules from a fellow student late Sunday night.
I think everyone here is in stress and uncertainty, said Mr. Khalili, who is from Tehran.
Honestly, a lot of us stopped watching TV.
Its been very stressful for all of us.
The new ban appears to keep out all students from Somalia, Syria and North Korea.
But it appears to permit those from Chad, Libya, Venezuela and Yemen.
STEPHANIE SAUL

Weary Shrugs in War-Torn Nations

For citizens in some conflict zones, news of the latest travel ban was met with weary shrugs.
How many times are we meant to condemn this man?
Mohamed Al Amad, a Yemeni journalist in Sana, said of President Trump.
Most Yemenis are too busy feeling bad about the American bombs that Saudi Arabia is dropping on them to think about Trumps silly ban.
In the Libyan city of Misurata, Ali Busitta, a municipal official, said that the travel ban is wrong and it is offensive, and added, We understand that the terrorism in Libya looks scary, but you cant just say that we are all bad.
Most Libyans are occupied with the more pressing and often violent problems confronting their country, Mr. Busitta said.
Frankly, they are too distracted by whats going on to care about this ban or that ban.
NOUR YOUSSEF and DECLAN WALSH

Confusion and Anxiety Among New York Immigrants

Immigrant advocates scrambled on Monday to address questions from their communities.
Rama Issa-Ibrahim, executive director of the Arab American Association of New York, said many people who have been petitioning to bring relatives to the United States are confused and anxious now.
We dont really know how this is going to unfold until Oct. 18, but since January, weve seen the chaos that these travel bans, the executive order, has brought to our community and to the country in general, she said.
Yemeni-Americans in Brooklyn have been mobilizing since the executive order announcing the first travel ban was issued in January.
But Rabyaah Althaibani, an activist who was involved in a Yemeni bodega strike across the city in February that was a protest of the original ban, said she felt worn down by yet another one.
I feel so helpless and fatigued, she said on Monday.
Ms. Althaibani, 39, has not been able to bring in her Yemeni husband, Basheer Othman, who was a prominent liberal journalist in Yemen.
The couple married in January 2016 in India, but they have been living apart ever since, with Mr. Othman waiting in Malaysia to receive a visa.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I dont know what it means for him, and its really scary, Ms. Althaibani said through tears on Monday after speaking with him via Skype.
Im in limbo, and its a hellish nightmare.
LIZ ROBBINS
_____

Photo

 WhatsApp, the popular messaging app, has been blocked in China.
And the premiere of a film set against the Cultural Revolution  Youth  has been abruptly delayed.
Both moves may signal official jitters ahead of the Communist Party congress next month, as the authorities extend control to pave the way for what is expected to be the anointing of President Xi Jinping for five more years in power.
_____

Photo

 Rights advocates in the U.S. are challenging President Trumps latest travel ban, which, citing national security, indefinitely bars most citizens of Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea.
Citizens of Iraq and some groups in Venezuela will also face new scrutiny if it goes into effect, as planned, on Oct. 18.
New rules on refugees are expected within days.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, said the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
_____

Photo

 One aspect of Syrias future seems increasingly clear: President Bashar al-Assad is here to stay.
The Islamic State is losing ground and Syrian rebels are on the wane, leaving in place a leader considered a pariah in much of the world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His prize: a blasted, divided land beholden to foreign powers and lacking the resources to rebuild.
_____

Photo

 In neighboring Iraq, results are expected within a day or two for the Kurds referendum on independence.
The expected strong yes vote would not lead to independence anytime soon, but could provide Kurdish leaders leverage for the future.
But the cost could be high.
Turkey and Iran have threatened to close borders and impose sanctions, and Iraq considers the vote illegal.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Asia, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 The C.E.O.
of Uber, reacting to the loss of the companys license to operate in London, issued an open-letter apology for the companys mistakes.
War rooms?
A 21-foot cactus?
City officials and business leaders across North America are going to extreme lengths to court Amazon, which is searching for a home for its second headquarters.
A backlash is building in Silicon Valley against the push for gender equality in tech.
U.S. stocks fell.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Photo

 The Philippine government promised Vietnam a fair and thorough investigation into the deaths of two Vietnamese fishermen who were shot dead as they fled a Philippine patrol boat.
[The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Officials in Myanmar have accused Muslim Rohingya militants of killing 28 Hindu villagers whose bodies they claim to have discovered in a mass grave.
[BBC]

 Australias postal survey on same-sex marriage has prompted an outbreak of homophobic violence and vandalism.
[The Brisbane Times]

 Sydney Airport is hoping to resume normal operation while the authorities investigate an air-traffic control outage that disrupted hundreds of flights at the start of school holidays.
[Sydney Morning Herald]

 Puerto Rico suffered widespread devastation from Hurricane Maria; U.S. officials are working to get food and water to isolated communities cut off after the storm.
[The New York Times]

 Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman, was sentenced to 21 months in prison for exchanging lewd texts with a 15-year-old girl.
[The New York Times]

 The latest Republican plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act is on the brink of failure, but its architects are making last-ditch efforts to keep it afloat.
[The New York Times]

 Singapores civil defense and environmental agencies are trying to pin down the cause of a widely reported strong burning smell.
[Channel NewsAsia]

 Chancellor Angela Merkel won her fourth term in power, but nearly 6 million Germans voted for an upstart, populist party that has denounced her: Alternative for Germany.
[The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 U.N. investigators said Russia had committed multiple and grave human rights abuses  including arbitrary detentions, torture and abductions  in Crimea since reclaiming the territory three years ago.
[The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Photo

 Are your retirement savings on course?
Here are some tips, and more in this weeks newsletter.
How to find a qualified dog trainer.
Recipe of the day: Try shaved brussels sprouts salad with pecorino and walnuts.
Noteworthy

Photo

 One year after giant pandas graduated from endangered to vulnerable, Chinese scientists have sobering news: The animals natural habitat in China is in serious danger.
Researchers in Costa Rica are in a race to save chocolate.
Theyre working to broaden the narrow gene pool of cacao to prevent fast-spreading blights from decimating the crop.
After President Trump fueled a wave of football protests, we chronicled what every N.F.L.
team did during the national anthem on Sunday.
We also took a look at the long history of protests by black athletes  and the equally lengthy tradition of their actions angering mostly white fans and officials.
Back Story

Photo

Thirty-four years ago today, a faulty missile warning took the world close to its first nuclear exchange.
But life as we know it continued thanks to one Soviet officers cool head.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the early hours of Sept. 26, 1983, a Soviet computer system reported the launch of five U.S. Minutemen.
There were only minutes to counterattack before the missiles could strike Soviet cities.
Lt. Col. Stanislav Petrov was in charge of the system that day.
He was skeptical, partly because the attack seemed too small.
After tense analysis, and a report by satellite radar operators registering no missiles, he alerted his superiors to a false alarm.
He later recalled it as a 50-50 decision.
He was right.
One of the Soviet satellites that informed the early warning system had misinterpreted the suns reflection off clouds.
Colonel Petrov faded into obscurity until a memoir in the late 90s highlighted his role.
His death in May was widely reported only last week.
In an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel in 2010 (published in German), he expounded on his decision: We are wiser than the computers, he said.
We created them.
Believe me, he added.
Im not a hero.
I just did my job.
Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
Browse past briefings here.
We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What would you like to see here?
Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.
Polls indicate that the same will be true in Austria, where the Freedom Party seems set to enter the coalition government after next months elections.
The far right will be a constant presence in the minds of Europes leaders if they want to avoid worse political fallout ahead, even as the populists may make it harder for Ms. Merkel and Mr. Macron to come up with solutions that could keep them at bay.
Compared with Germany, Mr. Macron faced a far more robust assault from the far right in France, but he was able to vault to power by capturing the center, creating his own political movement and precipitating the collapse of mainstream parties.
Video

In Germany, many votes for the AfD were cast in protest against 12 years of Merkels pragmatism about issues like immigration, national identity and the burdens of the European Union.
As Mr. Macron himself has warned, a failure to reform the European Union, better secure its borders and fix the euro currency will only further feed the far right.
Globalization, the bureaucratic nature of the European Union and its inability to protect its borders and produce thriving economies in all member states have led to increased nationalism, anxieties about national identities and Islamophobia.
But while institutional reform of the European Union may be vital, it is harder to sell to increasingly fragmented national polities, especially as the center-left parties lose ground.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The German elections confirm the decline of mainstream traditional parties in Europe to the benefit of insurgents, including Macrons En Marche, said Stefano Stefanini, a former Italian diplomat based in Brussels.
A domestically weakened Merkel must hold the E.U.
together and safeguard the trans-Atlantic bond despite an unpredictable American president, while trying to forge a strong alliance with Macron, tame the Visegrad dissidents and bring on board Italy and Spain, both in choppy waters, he said.
(The Visegrad countries are Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.)
There is also a danger that Ms. Merkel will be forced to focus more domestically as she faces the absorbing challenge of balancing what promises to be a new, unwieldy and potentially less stable governing coalition.
The decision of the Macron-friendly Social Democrats to leave government and become Germanys official opposition means that Ms. Merkel will now probably have to form a government with the liberal Free Democrats as well as with the Greens.
Oliver Rakau, the chief European economist at Oxford Economics, said the closer integration of European finances sought by Mr. Macron  and fiercely opposed by the Free Democrats  would be more difficult now.
There is unlikely to be a large eurozone budget, he said.
I think there will still be progress on European reform, including security issues.
But the fiscal integration that Macron wants looks much harder.
Photo

In any coalition, the Free Democrats, sometimes known as the liberals, will have to make their mark, said Christoph von Marschall, the chief diplomatic correspondent of the Tagesspiegel newspaper.
Toughness on eurozone budget discipline and opposition to any fiscal transfers within the eurozone are central points for the liberals, and they will continue to be hard on this, because this is where they compete with the AfD, he said.
The Social Democrats were very eager to be nice to the French, but the liberals are not, he added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Carsten Brzeski, the chief economist for Germany and Austria at ING Bank, said the Free Democrats will be the big decelerator of European integration because of their opposition to a large eurozone budget, shared debt, and debt forgiveness for Greece.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its a clear cold shower for Macron, Mr. Brzeski said.
It means a very cumbersome process of further integration.
In a telephone call on Sunday night, Mr. Macron congratulated Ms. Merkel on winning a fourth term, and he said on Twitter that we resolutely continue our essential cooperation for Europe and our countries.
Mr. Macron is scheduled to make a speech on Tuesday to present his reform proposals.
But he should expect little support from Ms. Merkel for any big ideas before she forms a government, which may take until the end of the year, and only selective support thereafter.
In a briefing in Paris on Monday, French officials outlining Mr. Macrons speech were cautious and short on detail.
They insisted that Mr. Macron was not pressuring the chancellor, but that it was important to outline French ideas as Ms. Merkel begins the laborious coalition negotiations.
But it is also possible that Mr. Macrons early intervention may backfire in what will already be a difficult task for Ms. Merkel.
Photo

It may be easier for her to support Mr. Macrons less controversial proposals, like better border security and turning an existing eurozone bailout fund into a kind of European Monetary Fund, as long as they do not involve new commitment of funds.
She has already given some support to Mr. Macrons proposal of a eurozone finance minister.
But the French and Germans differ on the responsibilities that such a minister should have.
The Germans would want a taskmaster to enforce the rules and keep national budget deficits within the debt limits required by the eurozone.
The French want a minister with flexibility who would control a eurozone budget financed by the states  but that is exactly what Ms. Merkels likely new coalition partners, the Free Democrats, oppose.
The partys leader, Christian Lindner, was blunt on Sunday night, repeating his opposition to Mr. Macrons ideas.
Without ruling out all reform, he said that a eurozone budget that could be used to send money to France and Italy would be unthinkable and a red line for us.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Lindner told journalists before the election that he would push for the finance ministry in a coalition.
If he succeeds, it may produce little change from the similarly tough-minded Wolfgang Schuble, who has been Ms. Merkels finance minister.
Will Lindner be tougher than Schuble?
asked Hans Kundnani of the German Marshall Fund.
Unlikely.
In the end, Ms. Merkel may have more trouble with her coalition from her sister party, the Bavaria-based Christian Social Union, which is deeply conservative and which lost about 10 percent of its vote from 2013, largely to the AfD.
With regional elections next year, the Christian Social Union and its leader, Horst Seehofer, will try to push Ms. Merkel farther to the right on security and migration issues.
To some degree he blames her for his poor showing at the expense of the AfD.
But as Mr. von Marschall pointed out, Ms. Merkels move toward the center over the last four years  on the euro, migration and same-sex marriage  also meant that she would not find herself losing to a left-leaning coalition.
The sacrifice of conservative supporters was probably a price she felt she had to pay to keep her party in power after so many years, he said.
The coalition that is likely to result will be unpopular in eastern Germany.
And it is likely to be unstable, given the tensions within Ms. Merkels own party.
Yet unstable coalitions and early elections are the norm in most of Europe, Mr. Brzeski said.
Germany has become a bit more European.
The bills will be presented to Parliament on Tuesday, beginning what promises to be weeks of debate while opponents most likely stage protests and try to derail the process.
On Monday, the immediate reaction was muted.
Both the ruling right-wing Law and Justice party and its opponents promised to study the proposals, though all sides found something to criticize.
Law and Justice said the proposals were not entirely acceptable, but were good enough to provide a start for further debate.
We will work on this legislation so that it is acceptable for us and the president, said Ryszard Terlecki, head of the partys parliamentary caucus.
Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the ruling partys undisputed leader, offered no comment on Monday about the new proposals.
Mr. Kaczynski handpicked Mr. Duda as his partys presidential candidate.
Mr. Duda noted that his proposals, if enacted, might be unworkable without a change to the Constitution giving him more power to appoint judges.
Analysts said it was doubtful that any party, including Law and Justice, was interested in amending the Constitution at the moment to give Mr. Duda more power.
Photo

I am afraid we are back to square one, said Marcin Matczak, a professor of law at the University of Warsaw.
This proposal from Duda changes nothing and Law and Justice will just use it to promote its own ideas in Parliament.
Law and Justice officials have said that reforms are urgently needed to fix what they describe as an unpopular and sclerotic court system.
Domestic opponents and European Union officials have accused them of trying to subvert the rule of law by placing the courts more firmly under the control of the right-wing ruling party.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Dudas draft laws came just a day after a populist, right-wing party drew enough votes to enter the German Parliament, and on the same day European Commission officials were meeting in Brussels to discuss whether Poland was violating democratic standards.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The coming weeks of debate over the Polish court laws  and the potential return of the mass street protests that filled streets across in July  ensure that friction between the European Union and the more populist and authoritarian governments in the East will persist through the autumn.
Czech parliamentary elections scheduled for the end of October also promise to turn largely on attitudes toward Brussels, particularly rules forcing member nations to accept refugees.
I think its going to get very serious, said Heather Grabbe, director of the Open Society European Policy Institute in Brussels.
I get the sense Kaczynski is going all out there, kamikaze, and hes going to keep going.
In Brussels, Frans Timmermans, the senior vice president of the European Commission, said commissioners reaffirmed their demand at a meeting on Monday that Warsaw comply with the blocs democratic norms.
The commission has threatened to invoke against Poland a never-before-used article in the European Union treaty to punish members who violate democratic or human rights standards, potentially resulting in economic sanctions or even a loss of voting rights.
Mr. Timmermans said that the commission would study Mr. Dudas proposals and that it was eager for negotiations with Warsaw to resolve the crisis.
Meanwhile, Law and Justice officials have indicated the party will also try to pass laws later in this parliamentary session to regulate foreign ownership of private media outlets and to restructure the way provincial and local elections are conducted.
Critics say the proposals are designed to cement the party in power.
The best hope, Ms. Grabbe said, is that any efforts to dilute the rule of law or subvert the unions democratic standards will be opposed by so many Poles that the ruling party backs down  as it did in late 2016 when tens of thousands took to the streets to oppose a government-backed law outlawing all abortions.
Law and Justice had tried to fast-track its court bills in July, approving them without hearings or debate under an expedited schedule.
This time, party officials said, the bills would go through regular hearings and debate, probably lasting for weeks and forcing opponents to calculate how to structure its protests to avoid losing steam.
For the ruling party, altering Mr. Dudas proposals raises the risk of another round of vetoes.
If they do change his proposals, the president said he will veto the bills again, said Jan Grabiec, spokesman for Civic Platform, the leading opposition party.
Its a very important political declaration, because I believe he will do that.
If he signs such bills now, he will lose the entire political capital he has recently built and he will never get it back.
Critics say Travel Ban 3.0 is still little more than a dressed-up Muslim ban.
And despite a less chaotic rollout, questions remain about how the travel ban will be put in place, who will be affected, how the countries were picked and whether it will work to prevent terrorist attacks.
Here are answers to some of those questions:

Why did Trump ban travel from these countries?
The Department of Homeland Security said the countries covered under the presidential proclamation were chosen because they could not properly establish the identity of people seeking to travel from those countries to the United States.
Officials said the countries on the list did not share information about whether potential travelers have a criminal history or connections to terrorism.
And some of the countries are known to be potential terrorist safe havens.
Administration officials said countries on the banned-travel list failed to meet what they called objective criteria.
They will be subject to the travel ban until they can demonstrate their ability to deliver the information requested by the United States, officials said.
Will this prevent a terrorist attack?
While counterterrorism experts say improvements to the governments vetting capabilities are necessary, they say the new restrictions may be far too broad because they focus on countries and not individuals.
An internal report written by intelligence analysts at the Department of Homeland Security in February found that country of citizenship is unlikely to be a reliable indicator of potential terrorist activity.
Moreover, the Cato Institute found that since 1975, no Americans have been killed on American soil by foreign-born terrorists who come from any of the countries on the new executive order: Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad, North Korea, Iraq and Venezuela.
The New America Foundation found that since the Sept. 11 attacks, 95 Americans had been killed by terrorists inside the United States.
Each of the terrorists was a citizen or legal resident of the United States who would not be affected by the new travel restrictions.
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States has made a number of changes to its vetting system for foreign visitors, immigrants and refugees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The government has created a number of terrorist watch lists, required visitors to provide biometric information including fingerprints and facial scans, hired new consular officers and Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to conduct visa security background checks and improved both interagency and country-to-country intelligence sharing.
Some counterterrorism experts say the new travel restrictions could make the United States less safe.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
My concern over the travel restrictions on countries like Yemen, Chad and Somalia is that it may discourage those countries from cooperating on vital counterterrorism efforts in their countries, and that will hurt our efforts to go after Al Shabab, Al Qaeda and ISIS, said John D. Cohen, a professor at Rutgers University and a senior Homeland Security Department official during the Obama administration.
Isnt this just a Muslim ban?
Like his first travel bans, the presidents latest restriction mostly targets predominantly Muslim countries.
But officials note that two non-Muslim countries  North Korea and Venezuela  are on the list this time.
They say that should be proof that the latest ban was not designed to target one religion.
Critics are not convinced.
They continue to point to Mr. Trumps history of calling for a ban on Muslim entry into the United States.
And they insist that the addition of two non-Muslim countries does little to alter the original intent of the restrictions: to keep Muslims from certain countries out of the United States.
President Trumps original sin of targeting Muslims cannot be cured by throwing other countries onto his enemies list, Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said.
How involved was the White House in drafting the new travel ban?
When it comes to immigration issues, very little happens in the Trump administration without the direct input of Stephen Miller, the presidents senior policy adviser, and Jeff Sessions, the attorney general.
But administration officials said the process of selecting countries for travel restrictions involved scores of career bureaucrats at the Department of Homeland Security, the State Department and the intelligence agencies.
Officials said information collected by the agencies helped generate a recommendation from the secretary of homeland security to the president.
On Friday, Mr. Trump met at his Bedminster, N.J., golf club with officials from the agencies, legal advisers and Mr.
Sessions to make a final decision.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So what will happen now in the courts?
The Supreme Court asked lawyers in the case involving the previous ban to submit briefs by Oct. 5 addressing whether, or to what extent, the proclamation may render the case moot.
The court also asked for briefings on a question not addressed in the proclamation, concerning the earlier bans suspension of the nations refugee program.
That suspension is scheduled to expire next month.
On that question, too, the court asked the parties to explain whether the issue would soon be moot.
By canceling the arguments for now, the court indicated that it may never decide the case.
The cases are removed from the oral argument calendar, pending further order of the court, the court said.
If the court does eventually dismiss the case as moot, a further legal question will remain.
The Trump administration will ask the court to vacate the appeals court decisions striking down the earlier ban, while the challengers will ask that the decisions remain on the books.
Several critics have said they intend to challenge the new ban in court as well.
But that would most likely require a new lawsuit at the federal district court level, followed by hearings in front of appellate courts.
It could take a long time for new litigation to reach the Supreme Court again.
But legal experts say that critics of the presidents policies may have less success waging a legal battle against the latest travel ban.
In the first case, administration officials struggled to explain to judges the basis for the selection of the majority-Muslim countries on the list.
That led judges to rely on Mr. Trumps campaign statements and Twitter posts, many of which suggested religion as a motivation.
The current travel ban was put in place after a worldwide security review, and officials can point to a rigorous process conducted by bureaucrats from several agencies.
That is the kind of executive branch action to regulate immigration and the countrys borders that is usually given plenty of deference by judges.
When will this take effect?
And does it affect students?
The new travel ban takes effect Oct. 18, though citizens of countries included in the earlier orders will remain banned from entry until the new one takes over.
Unlike the chaotic rollout of the presidents first executive order, the latest travel restrictions have clear exceptions for people who already have permission to enter the United States, so there should be few instances of people being detained at airports or consulates.
As for students, it depends.
Citizens of some of the affected countries are completely banned from coming to the United States.
Those include Syria and North Korea.
Students from the other countries may still travel to the United States to study, assuming they can meet the normal requirements for a student visa and pass security screenings.
In recent years, Yemen has been locked in a war between the Houthis in the north and forces nominally loyal to the internationally recognized president in the south.
Since 2015, Saudi Arabia and a coalition of Arab countries that back the president have been bombing Houthi-controlled areas to try to restore the president to the capital, contributing to a large humanitarian crisis.
No group immediately claimed responsibility for Mr. Burchs abduction, and it remained unclear why he was taken.
Mr. Burch worked on oil rigs in Yemen starting in 1994 and traveled back and forth between there and the United States before moving to Yemen in 2005, a son from his first marriage, Stephen Burch, said in a telephone interview on Monday from Louisiana, where his father was born and where he lives.
Mr. Burch had divorced his American-born wife in 2000, the son said, and has had virtually no contact with him or his other two children, a second son and a daughter.
Mr. Burchs LinkedIn page said he graduated from Kilgore College, in Texas, and had most recently worked as a mechanic and cement technician at Safer, a state-owned oil company.
He had converted to Islam, married Ms. Forsa, who is from Yemen, and had three children, ages 7, 9 and 12, according to his wife and colleagues.
Ms. Forsa said her husband had left home on Saturday morning to take their sons to a sports club.
When he did not return, she called him and found that his phone had been turned off.
She called the club, and then his office, but no one knew where he was.
Photo

I knew that something was wrong, she said.
The police later told her that witnesses said he had been stopped on a busy street in Sana by five armed men in civilian clothes who drove a pickup truck with no license plates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After they took Mr. Burch away, two of them parked his car on a side street, where Ms. Forsa later found it, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
When I saw the car, my heart fell, she said.
She told the couples sons that their father was traveling and that she looked upset because he had not told her ahead of time.
I dont want to ruin their lives, she said.
The abduction took place in a part of Yemen that is tightly controlled by the Houthis and where Al Qaeda is not believed to have an active presence.
Ms. Forsa said she did not know who had taken her husband.
We dont know who is behind this, she said.
A Yemeni security official and two of Mr. Burchs colleagues at the oil company confirmed the account, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to journalists.
A spokesman for the United States Embassy to Yemen, currently based in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, said it could neither confirm nor deny the kidnapping.
The United States State Department has warned American citizens against traveling to Yemen because of the high security threat level posed by ongoing conflict and terrorist activities.
In recent years, rebel groups in Sana have systematically detained U.S. citizens, many of whom are not allowed to communicate with their families or consular officials, the department says on its website.
It also says the United States government has limited ability to help those in detention because embassy operations were suspended and its American employees removed from the country in February 2015.
In 2015, a Frenchwoman working on a project with the World Bank was abducted with her Yemeni interpreter near Sana.
Both women were released later that year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 2014, American commandos raided a village in southern Yemen to try to free an American held by Al Qaedas regional brach, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
But the hostages  Luke Somers, an American photojournalist, and Pierre Korkie, a South African teacher who was being held with him  were killed by their captors when they realized that a rescue attempt was underway, United States officials said.
Kajal Allakarami, 29, was 17 when she arrived.
We said it was like heaven when we came, she said, as she bounced her own daughter on her knee while sitting on a cushion at the floor of her mothers home.
The smell of a spiced beef and chickpea stew cooking in the kitchen filled the room.Maybe it wasnt our ways, maybe it wasnt our traditions, she said, but the way they respected us was huge.
Photo

In 2005 and 2006, around 100 Kurdish refugees, most Muslim, arrived in Carrick-on-Shannon, population 5,000, plucked from decades of displacement.
Now, Kurdish-owned businesses have opened in town, one of the countys top players in the traditional Irish sport of hurling is a Kurdish man, and Nowruz celebrations are held to mark the Kurdish new year.
The number of Kurds has grown as members of the first wave married and had children.
The group of families who settled here originally fled the Kurdish region of Iran in 1979 because of political persecution, and found relative safety across the border in Iraq, where some lived for nearly 25 years in Al Tash, a refugee camp.
They fled again in 2003, when the Iraq War forced them into a no mans land at the border with Jordan.
They were stuck there for three years before the United Nations resettled them.
Ms. Allakarami arrived in Carrick-on-Shannon with her parents, Fawzieh Amiri and Aziz Allakarami, and her six siblings  all thrust abruptly into the parochial life of a small Irish town.
None spoke English.
The government provided social welfare and language courses for the adults, while the children enrolled in the local schools.
Volunteers brought food and clothes, Mrs. Amiri said.
Among them was Nora Burke, a Roman Catholic nun, who visited Mrs. Amiri weekly to help her practice English.
Photo

Still, the adjustment was not easy.
Sister Nora said some locals resented the state-funded support the Kurds received.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Carrick-on-Shannon was not prepared, she said.
They just arrived and some in Carrick thought: God, who are these people?
Where did they come from?
What are they here for?
People say to me, Oh, they integrated so well, she said, but they struggled to no end.
Shortly after the Kurds arrived, the local gaelscoil, which conducts classes in Irish, found its enrollment increasing.
Many in town said it had less to do with any particular interest in the language than with the influx of the Kurds, as well as a wave of Latvian and Polish students at the other primary schools in town.
Also, jobs in a small county like Leitrim are scarce at the best of times, and for the newly arrived Kurds, the added barrier of a new language and culture made the search for employment more difficult.
But bit by bit, the Kurds established themselves.
Mrs. Amiris family lives in a modest home in a housing estate on the outskirts of the town, the air inside thick with the smell of spices wafting from the kitchen.
The family now includes Khomar, 11, born shortly after they arrived in Ireland.
Mrs. Amiri affectionately calls him her little Irish man.
Photo

Her husband takes pride in the small patch of land behind their home, where he grows potatoes and tomatoes.
He still struggles with the language, but his wife has enough English to work at Cryans, a local hotel and pub.
Hes now the primary homemaker, a stark role reversal in their traditional culture.
Id like to understand this country, Mrs. Amiri said of how she has embraced this new life.
For members of the younger generation, resettlement has been a complex process of not just understanding Ireland but of coming to terms with their Kurdish and Irish identities.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Zemnako Moradi used sports to bridge the divide.
Named after a mountain in Iraqi Kurdistan, but dubbed Zak when he came to Carrick-on-Shannon at age 11, he began training with the local Gaelic Athletic Association almost as soon as he arrived.
He found his stride in hurling.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its a small community, Mr. Moradi said, crediting the club with helping him adjust to life off the field and opening pathways for jobs and socializing.
You all stick together.
He has since moved to Dublin  where he has picked up the thick accent of the city  but still calls Carrick-on-Shannon home and competes with Leitrims county hurling team.
Some found the adjustment more difficult.
Jabar Azizi and his twin brother were 16 when their family arrived.
Photo

My age group, it was really, really difficult for us, Mr. Azizi said.
Even though I was in Ireland, my mind was somewhere else.
Still, he made it through school, and credits the small town.
They respected us and our religion, Mr. Azizi said.
They respected the way we wanted to live.
Mr. Azizi plays soccer a few times a week with other Kurdish men at a small field in Carricks Aura Leisure Center.
He has his own business; he owns a carwash in a nearby town.
But it took tragedy for the Azizi family and the rest of the Kurdish community to know they had found a true home with their new Irish neighbors.
In March 2012, Jalal Azizi, Jabars twin, was swimming with friends in the Shannon river during a rare warm snap when he got into difficulty and drowned.
The whole town was shaken.
Shops shut their doors and residents lined the road to pay their respects as the 21-year-olds funeral cortege passed by.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be honest, we didnt expect that with our brother, Mr. Azizi said.
His death really touched everyone.
Strangers visited his home, and rallied around the family, bringing food and offering condolences.
The family bonded with Joe and Rosie Dolan, owners of the Bush Hotel, who had lost their own son a year earlier.
A year later, they were there when the town planted an oak sapling to honor Jalal.
A small plaque in a riverside park now memorializes the young man.
When he passed away, we saw all the community from Carrick-on-Shannon gathering in my house, Mr. Azizi said.
It is something I will never forget in the years to come; it is something I will tell my son about.
Alexander Gauland, one of the partys lead candidates, insisted on Monday there was nothing in the partys platform that should cause worry for Jews.
Photo

Its leaders

Frauke Petry, 42, has been the partys leader and its face abroad.
She is widely considered a relatively moderate force in the party, but she recently split with many of its members over their attempt to expel a member in the eastern state of Thuringia, Bjrn Hcke, who was seen as challenging Germanys national atonement for the Holocaust and for its Nazi crimes.
On Monday Ms. Petry appeared to continue her spat with other party leaders, announcing that she would not join AfDs caucus in Parliament.
The partys leading candidates in the election, who are now expected to take charge of that caucus, were Mr. Gauland, 76, a former newspaper publisher who had run the office a Christian Democrat governor in Hesse, and Alice Weidel, 38, an economist who worked for Goldman Sachs as a banker.
Despite their nationalist rhetoric, the leaders are diverse in ways that have gotten notice.
Ms. Petry was, like Ms. Merkel, trained as a scientist, and is fluent in English.
Ms. Weidel is fluent in Mandarin and is raising children with her female partner.
Video

Its positions

Alternative for Germany promised to restore law and order and a sense of national pride  a theme that causes deep unease among many Germans.
After the results of the vote were broadcast, demonstrations decrying the partys nationalist rhetoric and accusing it of flirting with Nazism broke out in Berlin, Hamburg, Frankfurt and Cologne.
Theres no right to Nazi propaganda!
protesters shouted outside AfDs election-night party.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Weidel said the party would initiate a parliamentary investigative committee against Angela Merkel, challenging the legal basis of her migration policies, and very decidedly take up the breaches of law by this lady.
The party also promised to increase border security, to push back against further European Union integration and to oppose the use of German taxpayer money to bail out foreign banks.
It wants to revamp the pensions system, cutting a government program that rewards private pensions savers.
The party has flirted with anti-Islamic sentiment, rejecting inclusive language used by Ms. Merkel and past presidents and saying that a religion that does not respect the constitution and laws of the country is not compatible with German democracy.
Photo

Its supporters

Of the nearly 6 million votes Alternative for Germany won on Sunday, preliminary results show 1.2 million came from voters who had stayed home in previous elections.
But another million had been pulled away from the chancellors bloc  including many from the Christian Social Union, a sister party of her Christian Democratic Union that has been the dominant political force in the southern state of Bavaria for decades.
But AfD also drew from the political left, with support from nearly 500,000 voters who had previously supported the center-left Social Democrats and 400,000 who had voted for the Left Party.
AfD appealed to peoples sense that lawmakers had failed to listen to individual concerns of loss of orientation in an increasingly globalized world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Shirley Borchardt, 30, was one of those who abandoned the Left Party after nine years.
She said it had not stood done enough to stand up to Ms. Merkel.
I want to finally be a part of something new, to see us become a force in the Bundestag that is able to break up the uniform mushiness of the represented parties, she said.
Its challenges

Alternative for Germany emerged as the third-largest party in Parliament, with 94 out of 709 seats.
It is unlikely to lead the opposition: That influential role will go to the second-place Social Democratic Party, which formed a coalition with Ms. Merkels group after the last national elections but has said that it will not do so this time.
How strong AfD will be will depend in large part on whether it can hold its caucus together.
Hours after its historic victory, becoming the first party to the right of the chancellors center-right bloc to make it into Parliament, cracks were beginning to show.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Petry, who secured a seat in Parliament through a direct vote in her eastern state of Saxony  candidates can be elected either as individuals or from a party list  took to the countrys main breakfast TV show to challenge comments Mr. Gauland had made during the election party about hunting the chancellor.
Then, at a news conference alongside Mr. Gauland and Ms. Weidel, she announced her decision not to join AfDs parliamentary caucus, and stormed out without taking questions.
Such theatrics lay plain that the young party will need to get its house in order if it wants to even begin to be a constructive opposition force.
Photo

Its impact

Paradoxically, AfDs entrance into Parliament has set the stage for a centrist government that will make overtures to the right but will remain staunchly pro-European, said Timo Lochocki, a trans-Atlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
They can influence rhetoric, Mr. Lochocki said of the AfD, but whether the party remains a force capable of exerting influence will depend largely on whether the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats are able to win back voters on such emotional issues as immigration and the common European currency, the euro, as they have pledged to do.
AfD had demonstrated that disgruntlement about immigration and the euro were potent issues for perhaps 5 to 10 percent of voters, Mr. Lochocki said  issues that it would want to keep alive.
He added that elections had historically been focused on economics, but a split had emerged because of the refugee crisis.
These cleavages never decided elections because migration was not an issue, he said.
But now it is.
Facebook declined to comment, following past practice when asked about WhatsApps difficulties in China.
Lokman Tsui, an internet communications specialist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that WhatsApp seemed to have been severely disrupted starting on Sunday.
But he said that some WhatsApp users might still be able to use the service.
The Chinese authorities have a history of mostly, but not entirely, blocking internet services, as well as slowing them down so much that they become useless.
The censorship has prompted many in China to switch to communications methods that function smoothly and quickly but that are easily monitored by the Chinese authorities, like the WeChat app of the Chinese internet company Tencent, which is based in Shenzhen.
If youre only allowed to drive one mile per hour, youre not going to drive on that road, even if its not technically blocked, Mr. Tsui said.
The disruption of WhatsApp comes as Beijing prepares for the Communist Partys congress, which starts Oct. 18.
Held once every five years, the congress chooses the partys leadership, which in turn runs the country.
Next months meeting is expected to reconfirm President Xi Jinpings nearly absolute grip on power, but considerable uncertainty remains over who will join him on the Standing Committee of the Politburo, the partys highest-ranking group.
Over the past several years, China has not only stepped up censorship but also closed numerous churches and jailed large numbers of human rights activists, lawyers and advocates for ethnic minorities.
The shutdown of WhatsApp prompted considerable dismay on Chinese social media.
Losing contact with my clients, forced back to the age of telephone and email for work now, one user complained on Weibo, a Twitter-like microblogging site.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even WhatsApp is blocked now?
Im going to be out of business soon, another Chinese social media user said on Weibo.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In China, even the use of email is fading as residents embrace the convenience of WeChat.
The messaging service, which has 963 million active users, bears some similarities to WhatsApp but has a wider array of features and one crucial difference: close ties to the government.
This month, WeChat sent a notice to users reminding them that it complied with official requests for information.
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it agreed to open online data services and other enhanced telecommunications services to international competition.
But it obtained the assent of other W.T.O.
members to retain restrictions on the media.
Technology multinationals, heavily dependent on the Chinese market, have been reluctant to accuse Beijing of falling short of its W.T.O.
commitments.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative has opened a formal investigation into whether China is violating the intellectual property of American companies, but it has released few details.
The trade office has not said whether the inquiry will include the blocking of products that rely on American intellectual property, or whether it will focus more narrowly on cases in which China has allegedly purloined or otherwise copied it.
WhatsApp has a strong reputation among cryptographers for security, which may have been what drew the attention of Chinese censors.
The app provides so-called end-to-end encryption, which effectively means that even Facebook does not know what is being said in the text, voice and video conversations passing through its servers.
WhatsApps video, file sharing and other advanced features rely partly on broadly used internet data transfer protocols, and were disrupted over the summer.
But its text messaging function relies on a different, heavily encrypted method for moving data that has seldom been used by companies.
The latest disruption of the WhatsApp messaging system suggests that Chinas censorship apparatus may have figured out how to target the more uncommon and heavily encrypted data transport protocol as well, Mr. Kobeissi said.
Other services provided by American technology companies are available in mainland China.
The country tolerates Microsofts Skype service for phone calls, which does not provide end-to-end encryption and as a result is easier for governments to monitor.
Beijing also allows Apples FaceTime service, which has end-to-end encryption but does not have a WhatsApp-like feature allowing users to exchange secret codes  letting WhatsApp users combat what are known as man in the middle attacks.
By blocking the heavily encrypted WhatsApp service while making less secure applications like WeChat available to the public, the Chinese government has herded its internet users toward methods of communication that it can reliably monitor.
Residents of mainland China can still use services like WhatsApp if they first connect to virtual private networks that provide them with communications channels to servers outside the Chinese mainland.
But the government has also been cracking down on virtual private networks in recent months  and even when those networks appear to be working, they sometimes do not allow access to services that the government is particularly targeting.
The whole world should clearly remember it was the U.S. who first declared war on our country, Mr. Ri told reporters at a news conference outside his hotel as he was about to return home.
Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers even when they are not inside the airspace border of our country, he said.
North Korea last shot down an American warplane in 1969, during the Nixon administration, killing all 31 crew members of a spy plane that was flying off its coast.
Today, North Koreas ability to make good on its threat is limited.
Its air force is outdated, undertrained and frequently short of fuel.
But the threat reinforced a fear that Pyongyang and Washington are hurtling toward a possible armed conflict, even an unintended one.
Mr. Ris reference to the declaration of war appeared to refer to Mr. Trumps assertion in a Twitter message over the weekend that the North Korean leadership may not be around much longer if it continues its threats.
Mr. Ri said that the question of who would be around much longer will be answered by North Korea.
It is possible that North Koreas foreign minister wanted to make clear that it, too, could threaten pre-emptive military action, just as the United States has repeatedly suggested in recent months.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But Mr. Trumps tweet over the weekend appeared to go further, suggesting that mere threats, rather than a military attack, could drive him to wipe out the country.
Whether that was one of his characteristic outbursts or a strategic effort to intimidate North Korea was not clear  even to some of his advisers.
If the goal is to intimidate the North Koreans, it needs to be understood that they are really hard to intimidate, said Evans J. R. Revere, a Korea expert who is a former deputy assistant secretary of state.
Theyre not used to an American president saying these things, Mr. Revere said.
Theyre also masters at responding when their leader is attacked.
The escalation of threats came two days after American warplanes flew close to the Norths coast, going farther north of the Demilitarized Zone  the dividing line between North and South  than any other American air mission since the turn of the century.
The Air Force advertised the exercise, which involved only American aircraft, as a direct response to North Koreas accelerated missile launches and a nuclear test two weeks ago.
Mr. Ri, who is well connected to the countrys top leadership, also said last week that the North was considering conducting an atmospheric nuclear test in response to Mr. Trumps threats, which would be the first by any nation in 37 years.
Video

It is unclear whether the North is capable of such a test, which is far more complicated and dangerous than the underground testing it has done six times in the past 11 years.
But a senior Trump administration official said over the weekend that the Pentagon and intelligence agencies were taking the threat seriously and devising possible responses  including pre-emptive military strikes  for the White House.
And Col. Robert Manning, a Pentagon spokesman, told reporters on Monday that if North Korea did not stop its provocative actions, we will make sure that we provide options to the president to deal with North Korea.
The 1950-53 Korean War ended in an armistice, not a peace treaty, so hostilities have merely been in abeyance.
Since then the North has often said that the United States was bringing the two countries to the brink of war.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Mr. Ris remark about downing American aircraft was new and raised the possibility of a clash, even if a North Korean attack failed.
He also said that all options will be on the operations table of the supreme leadership of North Korea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Political analysts said the Trump administration should consider Mr. Ris comments more than just verbal volleys.
I think theyre dangerously close to some kind of a conflict with North Korea, said Jae H. Ku, the director of the U.S. Korea Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
This is something I feared, he said.
When we go down this road, our escalation could lead to accidental shootouts, and it may not be so accidental.
The increasing acrimony also alarmed China, North Koreas biggest trading partner, which strongly opposes the Norths missile and nuclear tests but has repeatedly urged de-escalation.
We want things to calm down, Chinas United Nations ambassador, Liu Jieyi, was quoted by Reuters as saying on Monday.
North Korea had already deemed Mr. Trumps threat at the United Nations  to totally destroy North Korea if the United States were forced to defend itself or its allies  a declaration of war.
Mr. Kim, in an unusually direct response, said last week that Mr. Trumps insults to him and his country in his United Nations General Assembly speech amounted to the most ferocious declaration of a war in history, which warranted the highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history.
If North Korea were to shoot down a United States military aircraft, it would not be the first time since the Korean War.
In April 1969, the North shot down an unarmed United States Lockheed EC-121 spy plane on a North Korean intelligence-gathering mission over the Sea of Japan.
The 31 deaths amounted to one of the biggest single losses of American military lives during the Cold War.
North Korean state radio said at the time that the aircraft had penetrated deep into the airspace of the country.
The Defense Department said the plane was 50 nautical miles off the North Korean coast.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 1994, a United States Army helicopter was shot down, and one of its two pilots killed, after it strayed into North Korean airspace.
The second pilot was freed after 13 days of captivity.
North Korea claimed the helicopter had been on a spying mission, but the United States maintained that the intrusion was the result of a navigation error.
Hours after Mr. Ri spoke on Monday, General McMaster told a conference organized by the Institute for the Study of War in Washington that the administration had no set preconditions for talks with North Korea.
But he said any new negotiations must be held under conditions that are different from previous talks, which he said were drawn out and yielded little progress.
General McMaster said the administration does not want to negotiate in a way that locks in the status quo as the new normal.
Asked about a maritime blockade as a military option, General McMaster said it would probably provoke retaliation by North Korea.
He also said many people seem to think  incorrectly  that there is an easy military option.
What were not assuming is that anything we do will go without some kind of response to the situation, he said.
General McMaster would not comment on the North Korean threat to shoot down American warplanes.
Photo

GENEVA  Russia has committed multiple and grave human rights abuses in Crimea since reclaiming the territory three years ago, the United Nations said on Monday, including arbitrary arrests, torture and the imposition of Russian citizenship on residents of the former Ukrainian region.
United Nations investigators have documented evidence of arbitrary detentions, torture and abductions since Russian troops annexed the Crimean Peninsula, according to a report presented in Geneva on Monday and linking abuses to the Federal Security Service, Russian police officers and a paramilitary group.
The abuses included the extrajudicial killing of at least one pro-Ukrainian activist, the panel found, and while dozens of people abducted from 2014 to 2016 have been released, at least 10 are still missing.
Many of the rights violations took place in 2014, shortly after Crimeas annexation in March that year, the report said, but arbitrary arrests are still reported regularly and appear to seek to instill fear and stifle opposition.
The frequency and severity of these human rights violations, together with the lack of accountability, has created an atmosphere of impunity which encourages the further perpetuation of such violations, said Fiona Frazer, who led the investigating mission, which the United Nations General Assembly ordered in December.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By reclaiming Crimea as a part of Russia, President Vladimir V. Putin sought to reverse what he had described as an injustice inflicted by the Soviet Union 60 years earlier.
The move immediately drew international condemnation and sanctions from the European Union and the United States, which are still in place.
ERBIL, Iraq  As jubilant Iraqi Kurds celebrated their vote Monday on independence from Iraq, shooting off fireworks and parading in cars festooned with Kurdish flags late into the night, their neighbors conducted military exercises on the regions borders, raising the threat of military intervention if it secedes.
The vote played out on a historic day for several million Kurds in northern Iraq, and was a pivotal moment in the Kurdish dream of a politically independent state.
While officials said the vote would not be tabulated until at least Tuesday, it was expected to be overwhelmingly in favor of independence for Iraqi Kurdistan, the semiautonomous region in northern Iraq.
Despite the celebrations, the vote may come at a steep political cost to the Kurds.
It proved highly provocative for Turkey, Iran and Iraq, whose responses are likely to roil the region in the coming days, stirring the very turmoil that the United States hoped to avoid when it pressured the Kurds to call off the vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The White House has warned that a Kurdish move toward independence could set off ethnic conflict, and that it could fracture Iraq and undermine the American-led coalition against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.
We hope for a unified Iraq to annihilate ISIS, and certainly a unified Iraq to push back on Iran, the White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said Monday.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October.
A judge had ruled then that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitled, rather than treating them as contractors.
I apologize to all the filmgoers whod pre-bought tickets, he said.
I apologize most of all to them.
Ive let them down.
Neither Mr. Feng nor Huayi Brothers Media, the films main backer and distributor, have explained why the films release was abruptly canceled.
Huayi Brothers declined to comment when called.
But Zhan Jiang, a retired professor of journalism and communications at Beijing Foreign Studies University, said he thought it was definitely done for political reasons, a view shared by critics and fans who pointed to the party congress starting in Beijing on Oct. 18.
Its difficult to say whats problematic about the film, and there shouldnt be any major problems as it had already passed censorship, Mr. Zhan said.
But October is a special time, first because National Day is highly political, and even more important this year theres the 19th Party Congress.
About 2,300 delegates, most of them officials, will gather next month in the capital.
Historically, the party is wary of promulgating anything that is critical, controversial or even downbeat ahead of the meeting.
Users of Weibo, a popular microblogging site, suggested that Mr. Feng had delayed the release as a publicity stunt, or in fear of a poor showing at the box office.
But Mr. Feng said he had no choice.
There are rumors, but no solid facts, about what happened, Zhang Xianmin, a film critic in Beijing, said about the postponed release.
Its possible that this was all about boosting the market for the film, but there could also be substantial censorship problems.
Commercially, it doesnt seem to make sense to postpone.
Delaying distribution will certainly cost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chinese cultural officials have not commented on the delay of the release.
Security at the congress, like other big events in China, will be tight, a measure meant to ensure that no protests, accidents, controversies or surprises sully the spectacle.
Roads leading into Beijing are under tighter security, extra guards are manning buses in the city and officials and the police across China have been admonished to make sure nothing upsets the weeklong meeting.
The only thing that is certain is that pulling this was not a performance directed by Feng Xiaogang, one film enthusiast said on WeChat, a popular Chinese social media service.
Its problem probably has something to do with the war, the comment said.
Its not in keeping with the gentle warmth of this harmonious society.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many Chinese people, especially in Beijing, become inured to the restrictions and security that surrounds big official meetings.
Yet Mr. Feng and others who worked on Youth appeared surprised by the sudden cancellation after cinemas had already started selling tickets.
At the news conference, Mr. Feng did not disguise his frustration.
I tell you sincerely that right now Im feeling somewhat distraught, he said.
We wanted this film to hit the screens more than anyone.
Liang Pengfei, a Chinese film critic, wrote on a Chinese news site, Observer, that the losses caused by suddenly postponing the films release can be estimated to run to tens of millions in Chinese renminbi, which would be millions in dollars.
Mr. Feng, 59, is a popular director who has learned to work within, and sometimes adroitly nudge against, Chinas heavy boundaries of censorship.
He often sets his stories during dramatic historical events, such as Chinas massive Tangshan earthquake of 1976, and a famine in the 1940s.
Yet Mr. Feng also steers away from overt political messages, preferring to dwell on personal drama.
Youth adds a patina of romance to its depiction of Maos traumatic Cultural Revolution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As.
Mr. Zhan noted, Youth had already passed the scrutiny of Chinese censors, and it was shown at the Toronto Film Festival this month.
But the memories and themes evoked by the film may have prompted senior officials to reverse approval for its release during this sensitive political season.
Based on a novel of the same name, Youth tells the story of He Xiaoping, a young woman in a Peoples Liberation Army dance troupe, who ends up dragged into Chinas brief war with Vietnam in 1979.
Before she joined the troupe, her father was condemned as an enemy of the party and sent to a labor camp.
These hints at Chinas harsh past may have been too much for officials.
Under Mr. Xi, historians and writers have come under increased pressure to steer away from discussing the Cultural Revolution, the convulsive and often bloody political campaign that Mao launched in 1966.
The 50th anniversary of the start of the Cultural Revolution passed last year in near-total official silence, and unofficial commemoration was discouraged.
China went to war with Vietnam in 1979 after Deng Xiaoping, who had recently returned to power, pushed to punish Vietnam for occupying Cambodia and overthrowing the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a Chinese ally.
The Peoples Liberation Armys incursions into Vietnam, however, did not go as planned, and even today some Chinese veterans of the war say their sacrifice and needs have been ignored by the government.
This is not extolling war, Mr. Feng said of Youth last month.
Its to make audiences see the cruelty and terror of war.
On Sunday, he said a new release date would be announced later.
This is not the first time the filmmaker has seen a release date abruptly changed.
Last year, his film I Am Not Madame Bovary was released in November, to disappointing box office results, after its National Day holiday release was also postponed, although commercial reasons may have figured then.
Photo

MANILA  The Philippine government said on Monday that it had promised Vietnam a fair and thorough investigation into the deaths of two Vietnamese fishermen as they were being pursued by the Philippine Navy over the weekend.
The fishermen died from gunshot wounds on Saturday as they fled a navy patrol boat about 40 miles off the city of Bolinao in the northern province of Pangasinan, the Philippine authorities said.
A police report said that the navy had fired warning shots at their vessel, and that the boats had then collided.
The Philippine foreign affairs secretary, Alan Peter Cayetano, discussed the episode hours later with his Vietnamese counterpart, Pham Binh Minh, at an informal meeting of Southeast Asian foreign ministers in New York, where they were attending the United Nations General Assembly.
We would like to offer our sympathies over the unfortunate loss of life and give you our assurance that we will conduct a fair and thorough investigation, Mr. Cayetano told Mr. Minh, according to a statement released Monday by the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Philippines and Vietnam are among several nations that have territorial claims in the South China Sea, many of which overlap.
But the episode Saturday did not occur in waters claimed by both countries.
He added: Although it will be a difficult election, in order to overcome these national problems, I have to listen to the peoples voice.
Mr. Abe is taking advantage of his rising public approval ratings, which have recovered from a nadir reached over the summer.
After his Liberal Democratic Party lost to Ms. Koikes party, Tomin First, in Tokyo elections in July, Mr. Abe appeared at risk of losing the chance to become Japans longest-serving prime minister.
But Mr. Abes robust rhetoric after North Korean missiles recently flew over Japan has helped distract voters from a series of scandals that dogged him all summer.
At the same time, the economy is showing stronger-than-expected growth, bolstering Mr. Abes bid to continue leading the country at a time when the main opposition is so weak.
Photo

He thought politically this is the right time to call the election, said Ichiro Fujisaki, a former Japanese ambassador to Washington, because his party had some problems, but the other partys problems are a lot bigger.
Polls show that close to two-thirds of the public disapproves of Mr. Abes accelerated timetable, given that he is not legally required to call an election until December 2018.
But over the weekend, a Kyodo News poll found that voters who planned to cast their ballot for Mr. Abes Liberal Democrats outnumbered those who would vote for the Democratic Party by more than three to one.
Yet with 42 percent of those surveyed still undecided, Ms. Koikes wild card of a party is likely to capture some of these voters.
The governor herself will not be running for a lower house seat, but she will use her popularity to campaign for her partys candidates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In announcing the new party, which will be called Kibou no To  Party of Hope  Ms. Koike said that she wanted to increase female participation in society and work toward an energy policy that eliminated nuclear power and reduced carbon emissions to zero.
She said she wanted to debate the revision of the Constitution, but she questioned the wisdom of focusing exclusively on the pacifist clause that is at the center of Mr. Abes ambitions.
Ms. Koike called into question Mr. Abes timing in calling for an election.
I see a big question mark on calling an election in the midst of the North Korean situation being so critical, she said during a news conference on Monday.
I wonder if its appropriate in terms of crisis management for the country.
Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo, said Mr. Abe was taking advantage of the North Korean crisis.
He is using the North Korean card to his advantage to call an unnecessary snap election just because it suits him, Mr. Nakano said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Analysts say Mr. Abe has been presenting himself as a force for stability at a time when residents have been awoken by text alerts notifying them of missile launches.
He is also able to leverage the fact that he is one of the few world leaders to maintain a close relationship with President Trump and manage the often unpredictable American president.
North Korea helped Abe raise his support rate, giving the impression to people that Abe is the only man who can deal with the threat from North Korea, said Harumi Arima, an independent political analyst.
Editorials in several mainstream newspapers accused Mr. Abe of cynical timing and of trying to avoid answering tough questions about a pair of influence-peddling scandals in which he is accused of giving favors to friends in the education sector.
Photo

But some analysts said such criticism could backfire if opponents did not present credible campaign platforms.
Elections are the place where lawmakers should talk about their ideas about Japans future, Mr. Arima said.
There is no use if they only complain or grumble.
Still, Mr. Abes call for an early election is not without risk.
The Liberal Democrats currently hold two-thirds of the seats in the lower house, so even if they win a majority, they could still lose seats.
Such losses could jeopardize Mr. Abes desire to serve a third term.
If they lose more than a couple of seats, then in some ways the door is going to slam shut on Abe, said Tobias Harris, a Japan analyst at Teneo Intelligence, a political risk consultancy based in New York.
And even if he serves out the rest of his term, the criticism that he called an election to solidify his personal status  and in the process cost the party a few seats  will be a lot more intense, and there will be a major question about whether he deserves another term.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is not clear whether Ms. Koikes party would hurt Mr. Abes political fortunes or whether it could become a coalition partner for the Liberal Democrats.
So far, four members of the Democratic Party and one from the Liberal Democrats have announced their intention to join the new party, along with a handful of independents.
Those who have said they will join the new party are in favor of revising the pacifist Constitution.
If Mr. Abe aligned with the new party, he could claim that there is more and broader support for his proposals, said Takuji Okubo, managing director and chief economist at Japan Macro Advisors.
In a bow to the sensitivity of the constitutional issue, Mr. Abe did not mention it during his election announcement.
Mr. Okubo said that Mr. Abe would benefit from the recent stabilization of Japans economy.
Mr. Abe has also vowed to use a consumption tax increase to pay for child care and free university and college tuition.
At a meeting with economic policy advisers on Monday, Mr. Abe said he would develop a 2 trillion yen, or $17.8 billion, plan to help improve preschool education and other social services.
The official campaign will begin Oct. 10, and voting will take place on Oct. 22.
These developments do not suggest that Mr. Assad has an easy road ahead.
He remains a pariah in much of the world, presiding over a blasted, divided land.
If he emerges victorious, he is likely to be left with a weak state that is beholden to foreign powers and lacks the resources to rebuild.
But his endurance has serious ramifications for the country and for the Middle East, affecting the prospects of Syrias future stability, of refugees to return home and of the Syrian government to tap international funds to rebuild its destroyed cities.
It is also a grim, late act in the Arab Spring uprisings that broke out in 2011.
While protests and armed insurrections removed from power the leaders of Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Yemen, Mr. Assad has remained, despite wielding tremendous violence against his people.
Photo

Mr. Assad himself has acknowledged the toll of the war, but argued that it has purified the state by eliminating threats to the nation and uniting Syrians around a shared project.
We lost the best of our youth and our infrastructure, he told a conference in Damascus, Syrias capital, last month.
It cost us a lot of money and a lot of sweat, for generations.
But in exchange, we won a healthier and more homogeneous society in the true sense.
Syrias conflict began in 2011 with a popular uprising against Mr. Assad, which his security forces sought to suppress with overwhelming force.
The opposition took up arms, and the United States, Saudi Arabia and others endorsed the rebels cause, backing them politically and giving them arms and cash.
Now, Mr. Assad has succeeded in dispelling the rebel threat, largely because of the steadfast financial and military support of his foreign backers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

His government controls Syrias largest cities and most of its remaining people, who generally live in better conditions than those elsewhere in the country.
His allies  Russia, Iran and Hezbollah  have stood by him, bolstering his depleted military and helping it advance.
The rebels, a disparate collection of factions with varying ideologies, never managed to form a unified front, or to convince all Syrians that they would create a better future.
Extremists linked to Al Qaeda joined their ranks, and their territory has shrunk as their backers have abandoned them to focus on fighting the Islamic State.
The Syrian regime is now the furthest from being toppled, said Bassam Alahmad, executive director of Syrians for Truth and Justice, a human-rights monitoring group based in Turkey.
Fewer powers are interested in making that happen than was the case near the beginning of the Syrian war.
But Mr. Assad is in many ways a limited head of state.
Much of Syrias territory remains out of his hands, and foreign powers have carved out spheres of influence, undermining his claim to rule all of Syria.
Photo

Turkish forces allied with local rebels hold territory in the north, and the United States is working with Kurdish and Arab fighters against the Islamic State in the east.
Even in areas nominally under Mr. Assads control, Russia, Iran, Hezbollah and local militias empowered by the war often exercise greater control than the Syrian state.
And Russia has taken the lead in Syrias international diplomacy, negotiating safe zones with foreign powers around the country to try to stop the violence.
The wars toll has been tremendous and could be a burden on Mr. Assad and his allies for decades to come.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent report by the World Bank put the countrys lost economic output during the first six years of the war at $226 billion, four times its gross domestic product in 2010, before the conflict began.
And while images of Syrias destroyed cities have become common symbols of the wars toll, the cost of unseen factors like broken social trust and shattered social networks could outstrip that of the physical damage many times over, Harun Onder, the reports lead author, said in an interview.
As the conflict continues, it is not only the physical destruction, but also that the degradation in the social fabric intensifies, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Merely by staying in power, Mr. Assad could hinder reconstruction.
Officials in the United States and Europe still hope that Mr. Assad will leave office in an eventual political agreement, but they have vowed not to reward him for his brutality and rampant human rights violations if he stays by helping rebuild the country.
Other countries that support Mr. Assad could help, but their resources are limited.
Iran and Russia are under international sanctions, their economies hurting from low oil prices.
Last month, the government held an international trade fair in Damascus for the first time since 2011, welcoming companies from Iran, Iraq, Russia, Venezuela and elsewhere.
Among the new deals signed were ones for the importation of 200 buses from Belarus and contracts to export 50,000 tons of produce.
Photo

Mr. Assads hold on power could also affect the return of refugees, a critical issue for neighboring states.
About half of Syrias people have been displaced by the war, with more than five million of them seeking refuge abroad.
Many fled attacks by Mr. Assads forces and have no homes to return to.
Others say the situation is not safe or fear arrest or conscription by Mr. Assads security forces.
After years of living in exile, Bassam al-Malik, a businessman and former member of the main exile opposition group, tried to return to Syria this year to sell off some of his property.
Through an intermediary, the government warned him not to return or he would be detained.
Now he was stuck, he said, between the regime and the opposition.
Some Syrians have dropped their opposition and made their peace with a government that seems to be winning.
In 2012, Firas al-Khatib, a star soccer player, told a crowd of screaming fans that he would not play for the Syrian national team as long as any artillery is shelling any place in Syria.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Last month, he returned to Damascus and received a heros welcome at the airport.
Today, we are on the land of our homeland and in the service of our homeland, he said.
The team, which is closely related to Mr. Assad, is still in the running to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.
Other citizens, like the teacher from Madaya, are happy to support anyone who can provide basic security and services.
We are people who walk where the winds take us, she said.
During the siege, we were with the revolution.
Now we are hanging Bashars photos and we sing for him.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
But in a stunning operation that began late on July 3, 1976, Israeli commandos swooped in.
They killed the hijackers and dozens of Ugandan soldiers, gathered the hostages and flew them to safety.
The raid was carried out with near perfection, though it cost the lives of four hostages and of the commando leader, Lt. Col. Yonatan Netanyahu, the older brother of the current Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu.
A new era in counterterrorism had dawned.
Joshua Shani, a retired Israeli brigadier general, was there, having flown the first C-130 Hercules cargo plane to land at Entebbe.
He told Retro Report: It was like the whole world say, Wow, they have chutzpah, these guys.
They are damn good.
They were so good that the United States tried something similar in April 1980 to end a hostage crisis in Iran that traumatized this country.
Fifty-two United States diplomats and other citizens had been taken captive five months earlier under a new Iranian theocracy hostile to America.
From the get-go, this rescue mission, code-named Eagle Claw, would not be an easy assignment for a Delta Force commando unit still in its infancy.
The only difference between this and the Alamo is Davy Crockett didnt have to fight his way in, said Mr. Ishimoto, who was an intelligence officer on the Delta Force raid.
Almost everything that could have gone wrong did.
Two American helicopters were disabled by severe dust storms over Iran.
Separately, a third one broke down.
Still another crashed into a tanker aircraft; eight servicemen were killed.
It was a disaster that left America humiliated  and left the hostages stuck for nine more months.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But failure can be a powerful teacher.
Eagle Claw was.
What emerged within a few years was a well-trained, disciplined force of special operators groomed for counterterrorism, hostage rescue and other demanding missions.
The force today is perhaps 10 times as big as it was in 1980, when its numbers, Mr. Ishimoto said, were between 6,000 and 8,000.
As for successes, one need look no further than the 2011 SEALs raid on a compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where the Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was found and killed.
With Americans weary of war without end since Sept. 11, 2001, President Obama withdrew most conventional soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan.
At the same time, he turned the Joint Special Operations Command into a dray horse.
Its members are just about everywhere: Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen, Syria, Somalia, Pakistan, you name it.
Their impact can be deadly.
But their footprint is lighter, and less costly, than that of a fully decked-out Army operation.
This commando force plainly appeals to Mr. Trump, who has shown scant faith in soft power, the use of diplomacy and humanitarian example to win friends and influence nations.
His budget proposals have included many billions more for the Defense Department and billions less for the State Department and the Agency for International Development.
In his first half-year in office, military special operators were sent on about five times as many lethal missions in what for the United States are non-battlefield countries  Yemen, Pakistan and Somalia  as there had been during Mr. Obamas final six months.
Relying on them so heavily has a price.
Though they make up roughly 5 percent of the total armed forces, they have accounted for at least half of the nations combat deaths since 2015.
The risks were evident mere days into the Trump presidency when a member of the SEALs was killed on a flawed night mission in Yemen that also left more than a dozen civilians dead.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its easy to romanticize commandos.
Just ask any Hollywood director.
But they are not supermen.
Even Israeli forces have lost their post-Entebbe glow, with blemished missions in Lebanon and Gaza that led to their own men and innocent civilians being killed.
Some military experts worry that even though the American teams also have chutzpah and are damn good, they are being asked to do too much too often.
These guys truly are amazing warriors, Russell D. Howard, a retired brigadier general who was a special forces commander, told The Cipher Brief, a website focused on security issues.
But theyre more than that.
Theyre smart, flexible, adaptable and unafraid.
The problem, General Howard said, is that the guys are still deployed all the time.
These guys are a national treasure, he said.
In my day, it cost an average of $1 million to train a special forces soldier.
Now it probably costs closer to $1.5 million, and you dont waste that asset.
You use them judiciously when you really need them.
When Henry Rodrguez felt the tremors from the southern Mexico quake on Saturday, he fled his home without a shirt, socks or the grab bag he typically keeps with him during any emergency  and there have been many.
Photo

Mr. Rodrguez is the head of mission for Doctors Without Borders in Mexico, and is largely focused on providing psychological care for survivors in the wake of disaster.
He tells his staff members every time they are deployed that to counsel survivors of trauma, they must have their own necessities close at hand.
But this time, he broke his own rule, springing onto the street with everyone else, wearing nothing but a pair of pants.
Days earlier, when the big quake struck, Mr. Rodrguez witnessed the actual catastrophe, a first for him in 17 years of emergency service: the city convulsing beneath his feet, buildings toppling, friends left homeless.
In the last few days, he manifests the same symptoms as his patients  coiled anxiety, sleepless nights woven with nightmares, near constant fear.
This time, Mr. Rodrguez is a survivor.
We are part of a group that has to react to these events, whose responsibility it is to help others, but we are also humans, and we feel these traumas too, he said, processing for the first time the toll the earthquake had taken on his own mental well-being.
When you are there for an emergency, involved in the incident, you become a part of it, too.
Countless Mexicans up and down the economic spectrum have found an outlet helping others, seizing a sense of unity amid the destruction, a remarkable feat in a society typically marked by social divide.
An endless supply of men and women, cloaked in orange vests and white helmets, have marched across the city day and night in search of ways to contribute.
As the recovery effort slows, and shock gives way to the difficult step of trying to absorb what just happened, many have expressed a sense of confusion steeped in sadness.
In Parque Espaa, a verdant expanse with winding pathways and exercise stations in the center of the Condesa district, a sheet of brown paper has been erected for passers-by to write down their feelings and thoughts When the Earth Moved.
Testimonies are scrawled on its surface, anonymous snapshots of grief, sadness and loss.
One writer recalled seeing the first building collapse in the neighborhood, another the moment when a friend passed out while racing out of their building.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We are still in a post-traumatic state where emotions run high, and there is a lot of contained energy, and we dont really realize we are in this state of crisis, said a psychologist, Claudia Quintanilla, her own eyes brimming with tears just hours after Saturdays fright.
We have not rationalized what has happened, and todays new earthquake re-traumatizes all of us.
For some families, the fears go deeper than this particular round of earthquakes, reaching all the way back to 1985, when a powerful earthquake claimed the lives of 10,000 people and pulverized the capital.
(At least 318 people were killed in Tuesdays quake, officials said on Sunday.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Nictze Ximena Salcedo said her family lost everything in the 1985 earthquake and fled Mexico for her fathers native Venezuela.
It was not until 2008 that they returned and reclaimed their former life.
Ms. Salcedo, 26, a photographer, lives in the south of the capital, not far from where a school building collapsed, killing 19 children and six adults.
She saw it crumple, sending up a giant cloud of dust and emitting a roar as the concrete split.
Her family home, her photo studio and her parents shop are all now gone, too damaged to salvage or in danger of collapse.
On Saturday, she was taking a shower when the earthquake alarm sounded, setting off panic in the house.
She raced naked from the bathroom, grabbing a blanket to cover herself.
Photo

I stumbled down the stairs soaking wet, slipping, shoeless and scared, she said.
I just want it to be over already.
I just want a little normality back in my life.
Ms. Salcedos parents feel like their lives are playing on a cruel, 30-year loop.
They cant believe its happening all over again, she said.
Stationed in Plaza Ro de Janeiro, in the hard-hit neighborhood of Roma, were at least six different booths offering guided meditation and therapy to distressed residents.
Others offer free massage, tables where children can draw and color, and psychological support.
The smell of incense permeated the stone plaza, which stretches two city blocks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, throngs of residents wandered through Roma and Condesa, quietly absorbing the jarring changes to a once-familiar landscape.
Jos Osorio Cruz stood outside a coffee shop, playing with his 9-month-old son, jogging in place while making faces at the boy.
He seemed calm, even relaxed, going for a stroll with his family in a neighborhood warped by disaster.
Its like our emotions are so conflicted, said Mr. Cruz, 38, a sales manager for Microsoft.
You have this confusion, sadness, and overwhelming fear, and at the same time you know you have to keep fighting and searching for hope.
He held out faith that the incredible civic response of his countrymen might be replicated in other areas of society.
Often, he said, citizens turn a blind eye to the corruption and violence that punctuate Mexican life.
Maybe the disaster was an opportunity to turn the energy of the masses toward bettering the country, he suggested, a prospect that comforted him.
I believe we will push forward as a nation, he said, rocking his son back and forth in his stroller along the jagged sidewalk.
This is an opportunity for the citizens to come together in the spirit of unity, to reconstruct Mexico.
(Above, the New England Patriots before their N.F.L.
game against the Houston Texans on Sunday.)
Separately, the White House announced a new travel ban targeting seven countries, including Iran and North Korea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And in Puerto Rico, our reporters witnessed some of the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria.
Some areas remain cut off.
It could take four to six months to resume electrical service.
_____

Photo

 Bye-bye, Iraq!
That was a chant among Iraqi Kurds at a secessionist rally in Erbil, the regional capital, ahead of an independence referendum today.
Iraqs prime minister vowed to take necessary measures to preserve the countrys unity.
Nearly every major power in the region has opposed the vote, except Israel.
One reason: A breakaway Kurdistan could prove valuable to Israel against Iran.
_____

Photo

 In rallies across Catalonia, thousands of campaigners handed out ballots for an independence referendum planned for Sunday, which Madrid has deemed unconstitutional.
The Spanish government said that it would centralize the command of all police operations in Catalonia to stop the vote.
Critics of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy say that he had overreached in dealing with Catalan separatists.
(There was even a raid over the .cat internet domain.)
In a much-read Op-Ed, a writer reflects on the United States frequent opposition to secessionist movements elsewhere.
_____

Photo

 In Britain, some observers now see Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, as a prime minister in waiting  an astonishing transformation for a politician who spent decades on the fringes of left-wing politics.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This weeks Labour Party conference could reveal more of his strategy.
He has been vague on how he would handle Brexit negotiations with the E.U., effectively allowing him to blame the governing Conservatives if the outcome is a mess.
Meanwhile, Prime Minister Theresa May offered substantial payments to the E.U.
during a two-year transition period immediately after Britains exit.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Business

Photo

 There is a high cost to a bad reputation.
That was the reaction of Ubers new chief executive in an internal email about Londons decision to not renew the companys ride-hailing license.
(Uber now makes more money delivering food than transporting people in some cities.)
A backlash is building in Silicon Valley against the push for gender equality in tech.
Pursued by the authorities, the family behind Unaoil speaks up in Monaco against accusations that it bribed the world.
An analysis of 90 years of stock trading suggests that, with a few exceptions, most stocks arent good investments.
Heres a look at the week in business, and a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

In the News

Video

 Our videographer went inside the chilling reality of a refugee camp for Rohingya Muslims who fled what rights officials have called textbook ethnic cleansing in Myanmar.
[The New York Times]

 A lawyer for Jared Kushner, Mr. Trumps son-in-law and senior adviser, acknowledged that Mr. Kushner had used his personal email account to conduct government business.
[The New York Times]

 In France, the party of President Emmanuel Macron performed poorly in partial Senate elections.
[Politico]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Relatives of a Syrian activist and her daughter, a journalist, who were found murdered in their apartment in Istanbul last week, blame the Syrian government.
[The New York Times]

 A Swede kidnapped at gunpoint in Mali tells of his six-year captivity and his conversion to Islam.
[The New York Times]

 A Belgian court ordered a Holocaust denier to visit one Nazi concentration camp a year for the next five years and write about his experiences.
[The New York Times]

 Saudi Arabia is investigating how an image of a former king seated next to Yoda from Star Wars ended up in a new textbook.
[The New York Times]

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
Video

 Recipe of the day: Avoid the deep fryer.
Bake your chicken tenders.
Use your smartphone to explore a new city like a local.
Action  not fretting  is an excellent career and business strategy.
Noteworthy

Photo

 At the inaugural Laver Cup, Team Europe defeated Team World.
Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer won their first doubles match.
The quality of the spectacle and the depth of the emotions were real in Prague, our columnist writes.
Jellyfish can sleep.
Three graduate students midnight excursion turned into a study that suggests that you dont need a brain to sleep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Our latest 36 Hours guide, on Madrid, makes the case that there has never been a better time to visit the Spanish capital.
Milan Fashion Week: Heres our critics review.
And tag along with the creative director of Tods as he takes us on a Vespa tour of the city.
Back Story

Photo

If youre looking for one of the more giddily narcissistic trends of our time, look to the worlds smallest continent.
When the Oxford Dictionaries crowned selfie its word of the year (edging out twerk) a few years ago, its editors noted that the first known use of the term could be traced to a post on an Australian Broadcasting Corporation forum 15 years ago this month.
There, a tipsy young man posted a photo of his mouth, asking for medical advice for his lip, which hed split open at a party.
I had a hole about 1 cm long right through my bottom lip, wrote Hopey.
And sorry about the focus, it was a selfie.
It was a very Australian turn of phrase.
In Australia, a barbecue is a barbie.
Your work colleague, Mr. Fitzgerald, is more often than not Fitzy at the pub.
Anna Wierzbicka, a linguistics professor at the Australian National University, has described the countrys love affair with such shortenings as reflective of cherished ideals, like mateship, humor, informality and a dislike for long words.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Although, given that Hopey turned out to be a man named Nathan Hope, maybe a casual tone is more important than brevity.
Adam Baidawi contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.
This briefing was prepared for the European morning.
Browse past briefings here.
We also have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian and American mornings.
You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.
Home mortgages represent a majority of Chinas new household loans by value, adding to a surge in real estate prices.
Car loans have been growing even faster in percentage terms.
And credit card debt is now rising in a country that is otherwise dependent on cash or online transactions.
There are signs that China is moving on the fringes to contain mortgage lending, in part to tame housing costs.
In the past week, banks in Beijing began raising mortgage interest rates.
In a lengthening list of Chinas largest cities, banks are under instructions to discourage the use of personal loans for real estate speculation.
Six large cities established new home sales restrictions in recent days to cool off prices.
Surging property prices have helped keep consumer spending high even as Chinas growth has slowed, giving its economy a lift.
But more debt may not spur more growth  and could pinch the household finances of some.
China will get less of a kick out of consumer debt in the coming 18 months than it did in the past 18 months, said Louis Kuijs, an economist with Oxford Economics, a British research firm.
Some economists also worry that consumer loans may be a backdoor way for bloated companies to maintain or even expand their capacity.
Chinas domestic automakers  many of which are state owned and suffer from too many underused factories  have unleashed a blizzard of zero-interest car loans in the past two years, often through their own financing subsidiaries.
In that time, the majority of Chinese consumers began to pay for cars with credit instead of cash, according to J. D. Power and Associates, a global consulting firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be clear, most economists consider Chinas consumer credit splurge to be a good thing.
Chinese families are nowhere near the borrowing levels of spendthrift Americans, whose household debt is equal to more than three-quarters of the annual economic output of the United States.
In China, that measure is still less than half.
More Loans Than Growth Household debt is still lower in China compared to the size of the economy than in many countries, but home mortgages, car loans and credit card debt are also growing a lot faster than the Chinese economy now.
Household debt as a share of G.D.P.
100 % Britain U.S. 75 Japan Germany 50 China 25 0 11 12 13 14 15 16

Chinese leaders envision a time when their country, like the United States, derives a major chunk of its economic growth from people buying homes, cars and appliances.
To do that, Chinese households need better access to mortgages, credit cards and other ways to enhance their purchasing power.
Traditionally, Chinas state-controlled banking system focused on lending money to big state-owned companies.
Economists view household lending as an appealing alternative to having banks shovel more money into unprofitable, debt-ridden state firms that cannot be closed because they provide jobs to millions of workers.
So far, consumer lending has helped Chinese consumers weather the gradual slowdown in the countrys economic growth in recent years.
That is particularly true in places like Qiqihar, a city of five million in the northeastern province of Heilongjiang.
The local economy took a hit last year when a large steel mill closed a big blast furnace and overstaffed communal- and state-owned enterprises pushed out more than 40,000 workers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But even here, 500 miles north of Chinas border with North Korea, the local economy seems to be rebounding from a slump two years ago, when the national economy was looking shaky.
Walk out the front door of the recently completed high-speed rail station in Qiqihar and no fewer than 45 cranes are visible, erecting apartment towers and office buildings.
The citys economy grew at an annual rate of 6.4 percent in the first half of this year, up from 5.6 percent in the same period last year and nearly matching the national growth rate of 6.9 percent thus far this year.
Borrowing has been a big help, residents say.
Whereas apartments once sold for cash only, many people now offer down payments of between 20 percent and 30 percent and take out mortgages for the rest.
Certainly more people tend to borrow when purchasing apartments, said Fu Shiqiang, a real estate agent.
They may want to get a bigger apartment or do business.
Zhao Ying, another property agent, said he used a credit card at supermarkets and shopping malls and bought a $21,000 Toyota Vios sedan last year with a zero-interest loan.
He said he had bought his current apartment with cash but would do things differently next time.
I will definitely get a mortgage, Mr. Zhao said.
It is very convenient, and I could use the leftover money to do some business or investment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Li, the car saleswoman, and her husband built their wealth the traditional way.
They bought an inexpensive, two-bedroom apartment in 2003 when they married.
Her husband was given a small apartment by his employer.
They bought a third apartment as an investment.
Real estate prices have surged since then, and Ms. Li and her husband have cashed in.
They sold all three units and bought a spacious, three-bedroom apartment for themselves and spent $30,000 to remodel it.
They also bought a Volkswagen Tiguan and a Honda Accord.
Their mortgage helps support that lifestyle.
Ms. Li, who said nearly a third of her customers buy with credit, knows that they are not alone.
When I got my first car in 2006, almost no one in my local community had one, Ms. Li said.
Now the roads are packed, and its really hard to find a place to park.
Military analysts say North Korea doesn't have either the capability or the intent to attack U.S. bombers and fighter jets, despite the country's top diplomat saying it has every right do so.
They view the remark by North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho and a recent propaganda video simulating such an attack as tit-for-tat responses to fiery rhetoric by U.S. President Donald Trump and his hardening stance against the North's nuclear weapons program.
By highlighting the possibility of a potential military clash on the Korean Peninsula, North Korea may be trying to create a distraction as it works behind the scenes to advance its nuclear weapons development, said Du Hyeogn Cha, a visiting scholar at Seoul's Asan Institute for Policy Studies.
Another possibility is that North Korea is trying to win space to save face as it contemplates whether to de-escalate its standoff with Washington, he said Tuesday.
Speaking to reporters before leaving a U.N. meeting in New York, Ri said Trump had "declared war" on his country by tweeting that North Korean leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer."
Ri said North Korea has "every right" to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. strategic bombers, even when they're not in North Korean airspace.
The U.S. frequently sends advanced warplanes to the Korean Peninsula for patrols or drills during times of animosity.
Last weekend, U.S. bombers and fighter escorts flew in international airspace east of North Korea to the farthest point north of the border between North and South Korea that they have in this century, according to the Pentagon.
Hours after the flights Sunday, a North Korean government propaganda website posted a video portraying U.S. warplanes and an aircraft carrier being destroyed by attacks.
The video on DPRK Today, which was patched together from photos and crude computer-generated animation, also included footage of North Korean solid-fuel missiles being fired from land mobile launchers and a submarine.
The North was clearly trying to claim it has the ability to conduct retaliatory strikes against U.S. attacks, said Hong Min, an analyst at Seoul's Korea Institute for National Unification.
Moon Seong Mook, a former South Korean military official and current senior analyst for the Seoul-based Korea Research Institute for National Strategy, said it's highly unlikely North Korea has the real-world capability to match Ri's words.
North Korea's aging MiG fighters won't stance a chance against much more powerful U.S. fighters escorting long-range bombers.
And while North Korea touted in May that it's ready to deploy new surface-to-air missiles that analysts say could potentially hit targets as far as 150 kilometers (93 miles) away, it's questionable how much of a threat the unproven system could pose to U.S. aircraft operating far off the country's coast, Moon said.
It's also unclear whether North Korea would be able to even see the advanced U.S. warplanes when they come.
South Korea's National Intelligence Service told lawmakers in a closed-door briefing on Tuesday that the North's inadequate radar systems failed to detect the B-1B bombers as they flew east of North Korea.
The last time North Korea fired on a U.S. aircraft was in 1994 when it shot down a U.S. Army helicopter around the heavily armed inter-Korean border, killing one of the pilots and capturing the other.
The surviving pilot said after his release he was pressured by North Korean officials to confess that the helicopter had crossed into North Korea.
In 1969, a North Korean fighter jet shot down an unarmed U.S. reconnaissance plane and killed all 31 crewmembers on board.
It's highly unlikely North Korea would attempt a similar attack now, experts say.
Amid tension created by the North's nuclear weapons tests and threat to detonate a thermonuclear missile over the Pacific Ocean, such an attack would pretty much guarantee retaliation from the United States that could lead to war, Cha said.
"The most obvious reason Ri made those comments was because North Korea simply can't tolerate such high-profile insults to its supreme leadership," Cha said.
It's also possible that the North is trying to fan concerns about a potential military clash in the region now so that it can win room to save face later when it tries to de-escalate, he said.
"If Kim Jong Un ever offers a moratorium on his missile tests or makes whatever other compromise, he could say he made a big-picture decision to reduce military tension in the Korean Peninsula," Cha said.
He said Ri's comments also allow China and Russian to restate their calls for a "dual suspension" of North Korean weapons tests and displays of military capability by the U.S. and South Korea.
The Trump administration's stance on North Korea has been hardening in recent months as the North has been stepping up the aggressiveness of its nuclear and missile tests.
It conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on Sept. 3, which it said was a thermonuclear weapon built for intercontinental ballistic missiles.
It tested two ICBMs in July, displaying their potential ability to reach deep into the continental United States.
North Korea has also fired two powerful midrange missiles over Japan in recent weeks.
Trump in a speech at the United Nations General Assembly last week said the United States would "totally destroy" North Korea if provoked, which prompted Kim to pledge to take the "highest-level" action against the United States.
Ri then said North Korea might conduct the "most powerful" atmospheric hydrogen bomb test in the Pacific Ocean, but added that no one knew what Kim would decide.
Saudi Arabia, the only country that prohibits women from driving, said today that it will issue driver's licenses to women for the first time.
The announcement follows years of criticism of the conservative kingdom by human rights groups, which have campaigned for an end to Saudi Arabia's longstanding ban on women getting behind the wheel.
The Muslim nation is ruled by a monarchy and follows a strict version of Sharia, or Islamic law.
The move will come into effect on June 23, 2018.
A committee consisting of representatives of several ministries will first study how to implement the change in accordance with religious and regulatory standards, issuing its recommendations within 30 days, according to Saudi Arabia's state news agency.
The ban has long damaged Saudi Arabia's image abroad, becoming a symbol of the kingdom's restrictions on women.
The shift comes several months after the Saudi king named a new crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.
The 32-year-old heir to the throne has pushed a program of reform in the country.
In the United States, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert called the change "a great step in the right direction for that country."
China has delayed enforcing sweeping new controls on food imports following complaints by the United States, Europe and other trading partners that they would disrupt billions of dollars in trade.
Rules requiring each food shipment to have an inspection certificate from a foreign government were due to take effect Sunday.
But Beijing has decided to grant a transitional period of two years following comments by other governments, according to a document submitted to the World Trade Organization on Monday and seen by The Associated Press.
It gave no details, but the delay might help avert concerns that shipments of meat, fruit, dairy and other products could be disrupted, hurting thousands of farmers and food processors who look to China as a key growth market.
The dispute added to trade tensions with the United States and Europe, which complain that low-priced exports of Chinese steel and aluminum are hurting foreign competitors and threatening jobs.
The food rules prompted unusually broad opposition.
Governments said little in public, but a coalition including the United States, European Union, Japan, Australia and Argentina lobbied Beijing to scale back the requirement.
They urged China to follow global practice and apply it only to high-risk food.
Some officials suggested Beijing was trying to restrict imports in violation of its market-opening promises.
Foreign suppliers complain Beijing already uses safety rules in ways that hamper access for beef and other goods.
"According to the complaints and application received, we hereby decide to provide a transitional period of 2 years," said the document submitted to the WTO by the Administration for Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of China.
AQSIQ, the main Chinese product quality agency, did not respond to questions submitted by fax and email about what would happen during the transitional period.
The inspection rules follow an avalanche of scandals over Chinese suppliers caught selling tainted milk and other shoddy or counterfeit food.
Western officials said they appeared to be meant to shift responsibility away from AQSIQ, which Chinese consumers often blame for safety failures.
This month, Beijing banned imports of soft cheese such as brie and camembert that it said contained the wrong types of bacteria.
European officials complained the ban was unfair because the regulators permitted sales of similar cheeses produced in China using the same bacteria.
The dispute added to complaints that Beijing is reducing market access for goods ranging from medical technology to farm-related biotech.
Beijing made concessions including allowing governments to certify food as fit for human consumption instead of confirming it met Chinese quality standards.
Still, the latest draft submitted to the WTO said the rules would apply to items including dried fruit, cocoa and spices that foreign officials said don't require such intensive inspection.
The depth of U.S. concern was reflected in Washington's decision to take part at a time when President Donald Trump had downplayed trade disputes to gain Beijing's support in dealing with North Korea.
U.S. officials have since stepped up criticism of Chinese trade policy.
European officials complained the regulations appeared to be intended to shield Chinese suppliers from competition and allow Beijing to block imports from individual countries if it chose.
On paper at least, the Mexico City school appeared to be structurally sound and built to withstand a major earthquake.
But it collapsed, killing 26 people, most of them children.
And now authorities are looking into whether an apartment reportedly built on top of the two-story school was to blame.
Claudia Sheinbaum, the borough president of the southern Mexico City district where the school went down in the 7.1 magnitude quake, told a news conference Tuesday that the school appeared to have its paperwork in order, at least according to documents filed by architects and engineers who supposedly inspected the structure.
She said an investigation was being launched to look for any abnormalities not revealed in those documents.
"We can't stop just with the paperwork," Sheinbaum said.
"We are going to do a review of the building itself."
Authorities said that the owner of the privately owned Enrique Rebsamen school built an apartment for herself on top of the collapsed wing, which local media said included a Jacuzzi, and were looking into whether the extra weight may have played a role in the collapse.
Sheinbaum said she didn't know if that was true, but said the owner, M?nica Garc?a Villegas, had a permit dating back to 1983 to build a school and apartments on the lot, though it was unclear whether she had permission to add a third story to the section of the school that collapsed.
The school was just one of dozens of buildings that collapsed in the Sept. 19 quake that killed at least 333 people, 194 of them in Mexico City.
Questions have been raised about whether new building standards put in place after a 1985 quake that killed 9,500 people had been adequately followed.
Although construction began on the school in 1983  two years before the new codes went into effect  it was expanded over the next 34 years with no evidence of noncompliance, Sheinbaum said.
She said the only immediately evident paper work problems during that time were two cases of unregistered expansion work, and Garcia Villegas paid a fine for not registering the work and was allowed to proceed.
Phone calls to a number registered to Garcia Villegas  who was pulled alive from the rubble  rang unanswered.
Seismologists and engineers say the Mexico City buildings most at risk in a quake are those, like the school building, that were built atop an Aztec-era lake bed, where the muddy soil can amplify earthquake waves.
But, although an architect signed a document certifying the school was structurally sound, experts questioned the method used to evaluate it, which Sheinbaum said involved piling sandbags on its upper floors to simulate 85 percent of the structure's maximum design-carrying weight, and then measuring the resulting floor sag.
Kit Miyamoto, a structural engineer and California Seismic Safety Commissioner, said sandbags can't test for earthquake resistance.
"Seismic is a lateral force, so if you just put a whole bunch of sandbags it is not going to tell you the story of the seismic capacity of the building at all," Miyamoto said.
"You can do testing, to determine what kind of reinforcement" a building has, including ground-penetrating radar or exposing rebar.
The school's first wing was built in 1983, but other additions and floors were added over the years, said Francisco Garcia Alvarez, president of the Mexican Society of Structural Engineers, who evaluated the school site after its collapse.
A third floor appeared to have been added recently to the original 1983 structure that was toppled in the quake, raising questions about what construction permits, if any, the school had obtained, how recently it had been inspected and what architectural plans were submitted in the first place.
Paper work filed as recently as June by a private architect working for the school asserted that the parcel had not been modified in a way that would violate the permitted land use.
The quake, whose epicenter was only about 100 miles from the capital, hit the city's south side where the school is located with a force much stronger than the original school structure was built to withstand in the early 1980s, Garcia Alvarez said.
That caused a failure in the building's joints where the columns met the beams, he said, noting that the addition of a third floor would have added more weight to the structure.
Still, he said, its possible role in the collapse needed further study.
Sheinbaum, who is widely expected to run for mayor, faces heightened political scrutiny over the school's collapse, which killed 19 children and seven adults, leaving behind a pile of wreckage still visible in a cordoned-off street of the leafy neighborhood manned by soldiers.
"We all just keep working, but then all of a sudden it hits you," said Alfonso Martinez, one of hundreds of volunteers who have been ferrying shovels, hard hats, food and water to rescue workers since the earthquake struck last week.
"People are going in and out of grief about all the lives that were lost."
Neighbors said that the school had grown quickly over the years and they had noted new construction.
"We saw there was a third floor put on there but we didn't suspect someone was living there," said Juan Antonio Gudino.
"I just thought it was an office."
Across Mexico City, some 40 buildings collapsed in the earthquake and some 500 others were so severely damaged they will either have to be demolished or receive major structural reinforcement, according to Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera.
Another 1,300 are reparable, and about 10,000 buildings inspected so far were found to be habitable.
Still, experts stressed that reforms to building codes following the 1985 earthquake had lowered the number of casualties.
But, they said, more needed to be done to ensure compliance.
"From what we can tell the new codes worked well, and helped avoid more harm," said Eduardo Miranda, a professor in Stanford University's civil and structural engineering department, who evaluated buildings following the quake.
"But some of these buildings may have failed because people did not follow the codes."
Unlike in the United States, where city engineers typically check architectural drawings for structural integrity, authorities in Mexico City perform an administrative check of submitted plans, but don't vet structural calculations, he said.
Two blocks from the school, bouquets of white chrysanthemums line a makeshift memorial with the names of those pulled from the wreckage  a reminder of the tragedy that befell the school.
"We were all focused on following the code," Sheinbaum said.
"We are all asking ourselves if we could have done more."
Associated Press writer Mark Stevenson contributed to this report.
Supermarkets are gradually re-opening in hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico, but the situation is far from normal and many customers are going home disappointed.
Most food stores and restaurants remain closed, largely because power is out for most of the island and few have generators or enough diesel to power them.
The shops that were open Monday had long lines outside and vast empty shelves where they once held milk, meat and other perishables.
Drinking water was nowhere to be found.
Mercedes Caro shook her head in frustration as she emerged from the SuperMax in the Condado neighborhood of San Juan with a loaf of white bread, cheese and bananas.
"There is no water and practically no food," she said.
"Not even spaghetti."
Maria Perez waited outside a Pueblo supermarket in a nearby part of San Juan, hoping to buy some coffee, sugar and maybe a little meat to cook with a gas stove that has enough propane for about another week.
"We are in a crisis," Perez said.
"Puerto Rico is destroyed."
The fact that some stores and restaurants have re-opened for the first time since Category 4 Hurricane Maria roared across the island Sept. 20 is welcome in a place where nearly everyone has no power and more than half the people don't have water.
Ricardo Rossello and other Puerto Rican officials said some ports have been cleared by the Coast Guard to resume accepting ships, which should allow businesses to restock.
But the situation remains far from normal.
SuperMax opened on a reduced schedule for several stores in the San Juan area as well as in the hard-hit towns of Caguas and Dorado.
Walgreens has reopened about half of its 120 locations in Puerto Rico on a limited basis.
Walmart says it has a "handful" of its 48 stores and Sam's Clubs open, but the process has been slowed by the power outages, port closures and the near total collapse of communications.
Supermarket chain Econo opened 80 percent of its 63 stores across the island on Tuesday, though the hours would depend on the availability of diesel for its generators.
Two Medinia supermarkets opened in the coastal town of Loiza.
But Manager David Guzman said he had to impose restrictions on cooking gas and other products that were running low and might not be restocked soon.
"We are restricting so we can give something to everyone, to extend what we have left," he said.
Therese Casper was among several dozen people waiting for a Walmart to open in the Santurce section of San Juan, but that didn't happen Monday.
She and her husband were looking for something to get rid of all the moisture that had accumulated in the apartment they rented three weeks ago when they moved to Puerto Rico from Denver, Colorado.
They have been getting by in their dark, sweltering apartment on instant oatmeal and anything else they can cook on a propane stove as they wait for a flight back home.
"I tell my husband it's like camping.
It's 'Survivor' Puerto Rico," Casper said.
"It's not what we bargained for."
Stores are still packed with dozens of brands of shampoo and other consumer products, but those aisles were largely empty as people rushed to buy the basics, using cash sparingly since that is also in short supply and credit card transactions aren't being processed at all places.
Ruth Calderon, a retiree, filled her basket with processed sausages that she planned to cook up with rice and share with an older neighbor who can't leave her apartment.
"I'm surviving," she said with resignation.
"I have what I need."
Others also described helping neighbors, and there are no signs of widespread hunger, at least not yet.
"There is a tradition here of people helping each other, especially during disasters," Doris Anglero said as she looked for what was available in an Old San Juan supermarket.
Some disappointed shoppers were sharply aware that others on the island have it worse.
Caro wept as she talked about her four grandchildren in Rincon, the western town that has been largely cut off from aid shipments as well as contact with the outside world.
"Not knowing is so hard," she said, turning to walk off.
Associated Press writer Chris Gillette contributed to this report.
A Palestinian gunman killed three Israelis and critically wounded a fourth outside a West Bank settlement before he was shot dead Tuesday, dealing a new blow to the efforts by President Donald Trump's Middle East envoy to restart long-stalled peace talks.
The early morning shooting, which took place as Palestinian laborers were lined up to enter the Har Adar settlement, was one of the deadliest attacks in a two-year spasm of violence.
While Israeli leaders condemned the attack, the gunman was identified as a lone assailant motivated by personal problems, leaving Israel with limited options for responding.
Trump's envoy, Jason Greenblatt, said he was "horrified" by the attack.
"All must stand against terror!"
he wrote on his Twitter page.
Greenblatt has been shuttling between the sides in search of a formula for restarting peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.
But eight months after Trump took office, there has been no tangible progress, and the administration has said it needs more time to draw up a proposal.
Greenblatt, who arrived in the region Monday, is scheduled to meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders in the coming days.
He is sure to get an earful from the Israeli side, which has long accused Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas of inciting violence and complained about his practice of giving stipends to the families of people killed in clashes with Israel, even attackers.
"Before talking about any kind of negotiations, the world must demand of the Palestinian Authority to stop its incitement and encouragement of terror," said Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman.
Abbas' office remained silent on the attack.
But in the past, while criticizing violence, Abbas has said such attacks are the result of frustration after decades of Israeli occupation.
"Israel holds the responsibility for any Palestinian attack because these attacks come as reactions to the Israeli crimes against our people," said Munir al-Jaghoub, a midlevel official in Abbas' Fatah party, in a social media post.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu urged Abbas "to condemn this attack, not try to justify it."
He said the attacker's home would be demolished and that permits allowing members of his extended family to enter Israel to work would be revoked.
Israeli forces also prevented residents of the attacker's nearby village, Beit Surik, from exiting, and arrested three of his brothers.
Such tactics are standard Israeli responses.
But in the past, they have been short-lived, and it is unclear what other options Netanyahu would have.
Both Israelis and Palestinians who knew the attacker, Nimr Mahmoud Ahmed Jamal, including his own family, said they were shocked by the shooting.
"We were surprised when we heard the news this morning, because we had no prior knowledge of anything and we know nothing," said his uncle, Issa Jamal.
Israel's Shin Bet security service played down ideology as a motive, saying the attacker was plagued by personal issues.
It said its preliminary investigation indicated there was significant violence in his family, adding that his wife had recently fled to Jordan to escape his abuse and left him with their four children.
In a message to his estranged wife that he posted on Facebook, Jamal praised her and called himself a bad husband.
"I was very jealous and I've done terrible things in the community," he wrote.
"I ask you to forgive me and take care of the kids."
Har Adar is an upscale community west of Jerusalem, straddling the line between the West Bank and Israel.
The settlement is known to have good relations with its Palestinian neighbors and typically allows in 100 to 150 Palestinian laborers each morning.
Residents said Jamal was well-known and well-liked.
Drora Bardichev, said Jamal had worked in her home for four years and that he was "almost like family."
She said he had talked about his family troubles and his wife leaving for Jordan.
"I cannot believe that it is him," she tearfully told Channel 10 TV.
"He was our friend.
I can't believe it is him.
I am in total shock."
Police spokeswoman Luba Samri said the attacker approached the back gate entrance of Har Adar, among dozens of Palestinian day laborers who were being checked by security forces.
Police said he was acting suspiciously and asked him to stop, and he then opened fire at close range before being shot dead.
The dead were identified as Solomon Gavria, a 20-year-old policeman, and two private security guards  Yousef Othman and Or Arish, both 25.
A fourth man was critically wounded, but listed in stable condition after having two bullets removed.
The victims represented a cross section of Israeli society.
Gavria came from a family of Jewish Ethiopian immigrants in southern Israel, Arish was a resident of Har Adar, and Othman lived in Abu Ghosh, a nearby Arab village inside Israel.
Othman's father, Issam, said his son loved everyone.
"There was no difference between Jews and Arabs for him," he said.
"He knew what his role was.
It's to guard, to secure both sides ... the Jewish side as well as the Arab side."
Since September 2015, Palestinians have killed 51 Israelis, two visiting Americans and a British tourist in stabbings, shootings and car-ramming attacks.
While Israel has said Palestinian incitement fueled the attacks, many were carried out by individuals like Jamal who were struggling with domestic and emotional issues and whose acts were subsequently cloaked in nationalism.
In Palestinian society, attackers are often lauded as "martyrs," and political leaders are cautious about condemning their acts.
Israel has struggled to contain these "lone wolf" attacks because they have not been carried out by organized militant groups.
Gaza's Islamic Hamas rulers praised the attack but stopped short of taking responsibility for it.
In a statement, the group called the assault a "heroic operation" that was a "natural response" to Israeli aggression against Palestinians and proved that the Palestinian uprising was still alive.
In Gaza, about 300 Hamas supporters marched Tuesday night to celebrate the attack.
Israeli forces have killed more than 260 Palestinians since 2015.
Israel says most of them were attackers and others died in clashes with Israeli forces.
Most of the attacks have been stabbings against security forces, primarily in the West Bank.
The frequency and intensity of attacks has lessened in the past year or so, but Tuesday's shooting, coming between the Jewish new year and the somber Yom Kippur, threatened to ignite them anew.
The attacks broke out during the 2015 holiday season.
Associated Press writer Mohammed Daraghmeh in Ramallah, West Bank, contributed.
Airstrikes on a market and a school near Raqqa, Syria, in March killed at least 84 civilians, including 30 children, raising concerns that U.S.-led coalition forces fighting ISIS did not take the necessary precautions to avoid civilian casualties, Human Rights Watch said Monday in a new report.
Human Rights Watch visited the sites of the attacks in July: a school in Mansourah and a market in Tabqa, towns west of the city of Raqqa.
Survivors, local residents and relatives of those killed told the international organization that dozens of civilians were at the sites when the attacks took place.
The attacks were part of the U.S.-led coalitions military offensive to take Raqqa, ISIS de facto capital in Syria.
A spokesperson for the Combined Joint Task Force, which was established by the Department of Defense to coordinate military actions against ISIS in Iraq and Syria, confirmed to ABC News Tuesday that the U.S.-led coalition carried out the attack on the school building in Mansourah on March 20, but that "the alleged civilian casualties was assessed to be non-credible after a review of strike logs and strike video footage revealed no signs of civilian use of the area before the strike, and no signs of civilians in the area immediately after the strike."
The allegation about civilian casualties in the Tabqah market attack on March 22 is still being assessed, the spokesperson said, adding that it is not the task force's policy to send investigators to the site of an attack when assessing whether civilians were killed.
Dozens of civilians killed

Human Rights Watch published the names of 40 civilians, including 16 children, it said died in the March 20 attack on the school in Mansourah, which housed displaced families, according to locals.
Moreover, the names of 44 civilians, including at least 14 children, who the group said had died in the March 22 attack on the market in Tabqa were also published.
Many of them were killed while lining up to buy bread from a bakery, Human Rights Watch said.
The report said that the civilian death toll may be higher than the total of 84.
The findings are based on an on-the-ground investigation conducted during July's visit.
What stayed with me was that the coalition on one hand had these powerful tools from the sky, yet, on the ground there is not enough attention to the well-being of the people, Nadim Houry, director of Human Rights Watchs terrorism and counter-terrorism program, who visited the sites, told ABC News.
Two things struck him most during his stay there, he said: the scale of the destruction and the lack of follow-up services to help survivors and families of victims.
No one had come to try to help them dig out their loved ones from under the rubble, he said.
When he visited the market in Tabqa more than three months after the attack, bodies were still buried under the rubble.
He met a father who said he lost his daughter in the strike.
She died while lining up to buy bread from the bakery, he said.
Since the attack, her father said he has tried to dig in the rubble with his own hands to find her body.
In the meantime, Americans tried to ask him if he had any information on foreign ISIS fighters, he told Human Rights Watch.
He was so offended that instead of coming to him to try to help him get back his daughters body, they were there to say 'give us info about ISIS,' Houry said.
The attack on the market came as a surprise to the residents because it happened in the middle of the afternoon, Houry said.
Muhab Nasser

The attacks by coalition forces raises concerns about how they assess whether civilians are near a target, said Houry.
If the coalition knew about the civilian presence but decided to strike anyway, it may be a violation of international law, he said.
Its not enough to just rely on intel from the sky, and now that [the U.S.-led coalition] have retaken these areas were calling on them to do a proper investigation, to interview survivors, neighbors and witnesses about what happened, Houry explained.
And in addition to that compensate the families and survivors for their losses.
Eyewitness accounts

When Abu Ammar, a resident of Mansourah, heard the sound of the strike around 11 p.m. local time on March 20, he and other civilians went to the school to help, he said.
"The dead were mostly civilian," Abu Ammar, who asked that his real name not be published out of concerns for his safety, told ABC News in Arabic.
"There were maybe two or three ISIS families that ISIS came and took and then the civilians kept working.
He and other volunteers recovered 45 bodies on the first day, he said.
The next day, ISIS members came to the school and prevented people from removing any bodies.
After they left, people continued to look for bodies for about four days, he said.
There are still bodies in the school, said Abu Ammar.
It was very difficult to get the bodies out because civilians did the search and rescue work.
Muhab Nasser

Muhab Nasser, an activist from Tabqa who visited the market after it was struck, said he knows of two ISIS fighters who died in the market attack: one was in an Internet caf, the other was in a car nearby.
The rest of the killed were civilian, he said.
In the market's bakery, employees burnt to death, residents told him.
There was an oil tank inside and the fire lasted for about a week, he said.
People were asking for firefighters, but they werent coming, Nasser told ABC News in Arabic.
When they asked, Why arent you coming?
They said ISIS didnt allow us.
According to Human Rights Watch, local residents who were interviewed said it was well-known that there were many civilians at both sites.
The school in Mansourah had long hosted displaced civilians fleeing other parts of Syria, and civilians had used the Tabqa market throughout the war.
Civilian casualties "regrettable"

A Combined Joint Task Force spokesperson told ABC News that the coalition aims to minimize risks to civilians and civilian infrastructure.
"We work diligently to be as precise as possible," the spokesperson said.
"Any civilian casualties are regrettable and we have a robust process that is intended to determine if our airstrikes did in fact result in civilian casualties.
For the sake of transparency, we also publicize not only the strikes we conduct, but also the assessments we complete each month."
The Human Rights Watch report noted that statements from U.S. government officials indicate that U.S. authorities have changed the process for approval of strikes in ways that could have contributed to higher civilian casualties.
During a press briefing in May, U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis said that President Trump ordered the military to accelerate the campaign against ISIS and that officials were now authorized to approve strikes at a lower level than in the past.
In the same briefing, Mattis emphasized that there has been no change to the rules of engagement.
However, it is hard to imagine that delegating the strike authority to a lower level in order to more aggressively attack the enemy would not impact the extent or effectiveness of precautions coalition forces take to minimize civilian harm, Human Rights Watch said in the report.
As the battle to take Raqqa nears its end, the aerial campaign there has reportedly intensified.
According to Airwars, a London-based monitoring group, the U.S.-led coalition forces fired 10 times more munitions into Raqqa than were released by U.S. aircraft across all of Afghanistan during the month of August.
The airstrikes led to at least 430 civilians deaths in Raqqa last month, Airwars said.
North Korea's recent threat to shoot down American military aircraft outside of its airspace recalls an infamous 1969 incident in which North Korean fighters shot down a U.S. Navy reconnaissance aircraft, killing the 31 American sailors aboard.
On April 15, 1969 two North Korean Mig-21 fighters shot down a U.S. Navy EC-121 reconnaissance aircraft over the Sea of Japan as it flew a regular surveillance mission in international airspace, 80 miles from the North Korean coast.
According to declassified documents, the unprovoked attack on the EC-121 aircraft led President Richard Nixon's national security team to draw up plans on how to deal with future North Korean provocations, including the use of nuclear weapons against the Asian nation.
According to a declassified National Security Agency (NSA) history of the shootdown, the EC-121 would normally have been staffed by a crew of 10 to 15 Navy personnel.
But there were 31 individuals on the plane that day, as an equal number of trainees were aboard for the mission.
North Korea later claimed that the American plane was flying within its 12 mile territorial limit, but Nixon refuted that, using evidence gathered by the NSA.
In the crisis that followed, Nixon dispatched a number of aircraft carriers and other Navy ships to the Sea of Japan as a show of force.
Documents declassified in 2010 as part of a Freedom of Information Act request by the think tank National Security Archive show those plans included a wide range of options, including the use of tactical nuclear weapons to a full U.S. military response.
Iraq's prime minister on Tuesday ordered the Kurdish region to hand over control of its airports to federal authorities or face a flight ban, as the Kurds claimed victory for the "yes" vote in an independence referendum rejected by Baghdad and Iraq's neighbors.
The Iraqi Kurdish leadership billed Monday's vote as an exercise in self-determination, but the Iraqi government is strongly opposed to any redrawing of its borders, and Turkey and Iran fear the move will embolden their own Kurdish populations.
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi issued his ultimatum a day after the landmark vote, which he said was a "historic and strategic mistake by the Kurdish leadership."
"I will not give up on the unity of Iraq, that is my national and constitutional duty," he said, adding that any ban would still allow for humanitarian and other "urgent" flights.
Masoud Barzani, the Kurdish regional president who spearheaded the referendum, called for "dialogue" with Baghdad.
"Negotiations are the right path to solve the problems, not threats or the language of force," he said in a televised address.
Regional authorities in Iraq's autonomous Kurdish north put the turnout at over 70 percent, but many voters reported irregularities, including cases of individuals voting multiple times and without proper registration.
Official results are expected Wednesday.
For decades, Kurdish politics have hinged on dreams of an independent Kurdish state.
When colonial powers drew the map of the Middle East after World War I, the Kurds, who now number around 30 million, were divided among Turkey, Iran, Syria and Iraq.
After polls closed in Iraq's Kurdish region Monday night, the skies above Irbil filled with fireworks and families flocked to the center of town to celebrate.
Across the border thousands of Iranian Kurds held rallies in support.
The non-binding vote is unlikely to lead to formal independence, to which virtually the entire international community is opposed, but could spark unrest at a time when Iraqi and Kurdish forces  both U.S. allies  are still battling the Islamic State group.
Iraqi troops are carrying out joint military exercises with Turkey along the border.
Fearing the vote could be used to redraw Iraq's borders, taking a sizeable part of the country's oil wealth with it, al-Abadi has called the referendum an act of "sedition" that "escalated the ethnic and sectarian tension" across the country.
In Iran, thousands of Kurds poured into the streets in the cities of Baneh, Saghez and Sanandaj on Monday night.
Footage shared online by Iranian Kurds showed demonstrators waving lit mobile phones in the air and chanting their support into the night.
Some footage also showed Iranian police officers assembling nearby or watching the demonstrators.
Iranian state television on Tuesday acknowledged the rallies, a rarity in the Islamic Republic.
Iran's paramilitary Revolutionary Guard and its regular army have been running military exercises near the border with Iraq's Kurdish region in a sign of Tehran's displeasure at the Kurdish referendum.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reiterated on Tuesday that his country is considering all options, ranging from military intervention to economic sanctions against Iraq's Kurdish region.
Erdogan said, however, that he hopes the Iraqi Kurdish leadership will abandon aims of creating a separate state and not force Turkey into enforcing sanctions.
"I hope the northern Iraqi administration gathers itself together and abandons this adventure with a dark ending," Erdogan said, adding that the landlocked Iraqi Kurdish region would not be able to survive without Turkey's support in helping export its oil.
"The moment we shut the valve it's finished for them," Erdogan said, referring to a pipeline through Turkey.
The Turkish leader said no country other than Israel supports the Iraqi Kurdish referendum on independence, which he described as "invalid" and "fraudulent."
He said attempts by Kurds to form an independent state are doomed to fail.
The United States and United Nations both opposed the referendum, describing it as a unilateral and potentially destabilizing move that could detract from the war Iraqi and Kurdish forces are waging against the Islamic State group.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the U.S. wouldn't alter its "historic relationship" with Iraq's Kurds, but the referendum would increase hardships for them.
She said IS and other extremists are hoping to "exploit instability and discord."
Statements from U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres expressed regret that the vote was held and said issues between Iraq's federal government and Kurdish region should be resolved through dialogue.
Kurdish electoral commission spokesman Sherwan Zerar put the turnout at about 3.3 million of the eligible 4.5 million residents.
Abdul-Zahra reported from Baghdad.
Associated Press writers Jon Gambrell in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, Balint Szlanko in Irbil, Iraq and Suzan Fraser in Ankara, Turkey, contributed to this report.
It is not often that a plebiscite is banned in a democracy but that is exactly what happened in the case of the upcoming Catalan independence referendum in Spain set to be held on Oct. 1.
The vote has not only been deemed unconstitutional but also illegal by the Spanish government, which has responded strongly to the independence movement.
Government officials have taken control of Catalan finances and rescinded its autonomy.
Police have raided dozens of Catalan regional governments and detained 14 senior politicians over their support for the organization of the referendum.
Police have also raided political parties' headquarters and seized material, including pamphlets and election materials.
The government has threatened that anyone handling or supplying electoral material risks prosecution and has instructed the police to stop the vote from going ahead in the region.
In response, thousands in the independence movement are now planning to stage long-term street protests and thousands have demonstrated in Barcelona against the arrest of people associated with the independence vote, demanding their immediate release.
The vote is five days away and neither side looks like it is backing down.
Many are asking how could this apparently anti-democratic activity could happen in democratic Spain.
Here's what you need to know:

What and where is Catalonia?
Catalonia, located in northeastern Spain, is a semi-autonomous region with its own local parliament.
Catalans, as the locals call themselves, have been part of a distinct entity since the 11th century and have their own language and traditions.
Catalonia has been a part of Spain since the 15th century.
Its language and culture have remained over the centuries despite the region's closer integration into the Spanish nation-state.
The region was first given formal limited autonomy in the early 20th century.
Catalan identity was brutally repressed under the fascist regime of Francisco Franco, who banned locals from speaking the regional language and giving children traditional Catalonian names.
The pro-independence sentiment, however, remained strong in Catalonia.
Getty Images

After the death of Franco and the introduction of a democratic government, Catalonia's unique identity and culture has been formalized and flourishes in modern democratic Spain.
There are regional elections for parliament with an executive and local government and Catalan is the official language by law.
The region has become one of the most prosperous and important in the country, with the city of Barcelona, and its population of nearly 5 million people, at its heart.
According to the Public Diplomacy Council of Catalonia, it is the richest region in Spain, accounting for nearly 25 percent of Spanish exports.
Just 16 percent of Spain's population lives in the region.
Why is there a referendum?
The political push for Catalan autonomy has existed since the 20th century and accelerated with the establishment of democracy in the 1970s, but a full-blown Catalan independence movement evolved after the fallout from the financial crisis of 2007 and 2008.
Local Catalan political parties began to actively agitate for independence on the back of a failing national economy and a sense that the region was paying more in taxes than it was getting back in benefits.
"Spain convinced Catalans to become independent.
They created this situation," said Marc Gafarot, a political analyst at the Barcelona Center for International Affairs.
"Catalonia was simply asking for a reduction of participation in a Spanish tax system that transferred money from the richest regions to the poorest.
It was clearly targeting and exploiting the Catalonian region."
Andreu Dalmau/EPA

The pro-independence movement held an earlier symbolic vote in 2014 in which Catalonia voted for independence -- 2.25 million people voted (a turnout of just 37 percent) with 81 percent of the voters saying yes to independence.
The upcoming referendum is different, having been organized by the Catalan government and ratified by its parliament, which is dominated by Catalan separatist parties, lending it legitimacy.
Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said of the move, "Separatists invented a new legal order."
The question being put to Catalans is simple: Do you want Catalonia to be an independent country in the form of a republic?
What has been the Spanish governments response?
The Spanish government is not waiting for the result of the referendum to respond.
The Spanish Constitutional Court has suspended the vote, though Catalonia's pro-independence government says it will be maintained and is challenging the order.
The suspension was requested by Rajoy, who argued that the referendum is illegal under the country's 1978 constitution.
The Spanish public prosecutor's office asked the Catalonia Police including Mossos (Special Forces), Guardia Civil (Local Police) and Cuerpo Nacional de Policia (National Civil Police Forces) to confiscate any voting material used to organize the "crime" of the illegal referendum, including ballot boxes, electoral propaganda flyers and printers.
"It's not just about independence.
Spain is making itself a fool with the international community," Raul Romeva, Catalonia's minister of foreign affairs, told ABC News, adding that there are only two possible paths for Spain to take: "Democracy or repression."
Earlier this month, La Guardia Civil confiscated 10 million paper ballots and Spain has detained 14 Catalan officials including Josep Maria Jov, the secretary general of economic affairs.
Potential polling locations in the region were additionally raided.
Gafarot predicted Spain's actions could have an unintended consequence: "Because of all this buzz, the pro-Catalonia independence vote will probably be stronger than ever."
What happens next?
The Catalan separatists have accused the Spanish government of being heavy-handed and mounting "a coup against democracy."
They are adamant that the vote will go ahead, even if it has to be as a clandestine plebiscite.
An anonymous militant organizer confirmed to ABC News that 6,000 ballot boxes have been stored in a secret location for the coming referendum and ongoing street protests will be conducted as part of the campaign against what they see as interference by the Spanish government in their affairs.
"Spain now is showing his real face to the rest of the world," said the organizer.
"I am young and [a] few years ago I would not have thought we had to fight for our rights.
We are in Europe.
It's a shame."
"Spain let us vote in 2014.
This time they refuse because they know it's happening," he continued, adding, "I hope it's the last battle."
U.S.-backed forces in eastern Syria say Russia bombed their positions on Monday in a major natural gas field they recently captured from Islamic State militants.
The Syrian Democratic Forces said a Russian airstrike killed one of its fighters and wounded two others in the Conoco gas field, in Deir el-Zour province.
Russia's Defense Ministry denied the report.
SDF fighters captured Conoco field, Syria's largest, from IS militants on Saturday.
The SDF issued a statement later Monday saying that its forces retaliated by shelling the source of fire and positions of "hostile forces."
It was not the first time the SDF has accused Russia of targeting its forces in oil and gas-rich Deir el-Zour, where Russian backed Syrian troops are waging a separate offensive against the extremists.
The two sides are racing to defeat the militants and snap up oil and gas fields, fueling fears of conflict between the two groups and their superpower sponsors.
Both the U.S. and Russia have embedded special forces with their respective partners and are supporting their advances with aggressive air strikes.
The Pentagon accused Russian jets of attacking the SDF last week.
Russia in turn said its forces were targeted twice from SDF-held territory.
SDF fighters have been making their way down the east bank of the Euphrates River in Deir el-Zour, while Syrian troops are mainly operating on the western bank.
Last week, Syrian troops along with allied Shiite militias from across the region crossed into parts of the east bank, where they ran into fierce resistance from IS militants entrenched there.
"They are losing fighters wholesale," said Germany-based Deir el-Zour native Omar Abu Layla, who is monitoring the battles through local contacts.
The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says 72 pro-government fighters have been killed in battle with the jihadists since crossing the Euphrates last week.
At least seven Russian soldiers have been killed, and Russia's Defense Ministry acknowledged that one of its generals was killed in the area on Sunday.
Syria's largest oil field, the al-Omar, is located on the eastern side of the river.
Elsewhere in Syria, Russian and government warplanes stepped up their airstrikes against rebels as well as al-Qaida-linked insurgents in different areas, straining a patchwork of cease-fires and "de-escalation" agreements that had brought relative calm in recent weeks.
Activists and monitoring groups reported airstrikes in Aleppo, Idlib and Hama provinces, as well as clashes between rebels and pro-government forces in northern Syria and on the outskirts of the capital, Damascus.
The Observatory said the airstrikes killed 37 in the town of Jisr al-Shughour and nearby areas in Idlib province.
The Syrian Civil Defense, also known as the White Helmets, which is active in opposition-held areas, said 15 people were killed and 30 wounded in Jisr al-Shughour alone, adding that other people were killed in other areas in the province.
Two people were killed Monday in shelling on President Bashar Assad's ancestral village of Qardaha, state media reported.
Syria's state broadcaster said the village has been shelled by "terrorists" for two days straight.
It says two people were wounded Sunday.
Qardaha is located in the coastal mountains of northwest Syria.
Assad's father, the late president Hafez Assad, was born in Qardaha.
He was buried there in 2000.
The village has been largely spared from Syria's civil war, which grew out of demonstrations in 2011 against the Assad family's four-decade rule.
The Observatory also reported the shelling, saying two civilians were killed.
Transcript for The island of Dominica after Hurricane Maria

What we're just come ashore on the island and dominate guys and then people say it's a a bull's mouth.
The destruction on the island is as shocking.
There you can possibilities are just being completely blown away.
Houses they're completely destroyed to.
Telegraph poles blown out of Trace trends in any plural born.
The smell of smoke is thick in the act.
Some from buildings on plot some from people just making fun because austerity souls.
Have any power to trying coat anything.
He was sort of very officials of electricity.
Those you can get out is being held sounds.
But thousands of people on this island and we'll nowhere else to go save.
They're the ones who really need the most help.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Saudi Arabia to let women drive

A big step forward for women's rights and Saudi Arabia the kingdom today announcing that women.
Will be allowed to drive starting next summer for women's rights have very slowly gaining ground over the years.
The country where females remain largely under control of male relatives by law.
Some ultra conservative clerics had argued against allowing women to drive saying it would corrupt society and lead to send.
US State Department calls a lift on the female driving ban a great step in the right direction.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 4 shot, 3 dead in attack near Jerusalem

I'm Stuart and are aware today of Palestinian attack unfolded.
I want to keep you seen here at the scene.
What exactly happened.
You can see hear and act the actual check points.
Where the Palestinian.
Attacker we're told by police with standing in line just behind that yellow.
Waiting to come into work here in that your settlement.
IKEA wrap suspicion of them and the Israeli soldiers here and they pulled out of line and that is when he brandished.
A fire arm and start here at close range.
Security officers.
That's why he was able to kill so quickly.
One out quarter.
Please man and security guard.
Now this company it's after with on the scene very quickly by the security personnel you can see even right now there's still a lot of security personnel here now Vincent with an unusual attack because.
In this area there's a lot of cooperation between the Jewish settlers and work.
Not a typical athletes where this attack with.
Palestinian attacker just hit the model that once that we've seen the last few years.
That is he wasn't young man and he went with at night he he didn't we deal with Nike used her arm.
As the fact that he actually happened now work permit it is experience mutual.
The majority of the attackers from the West Bank that's in.
Now this attack has REE spoke to a lot of pretty responses from the Israeli government.
We thought that the prime minister and in Kenya called this.
A murderous act.
And one that he blamed on the Palestinian.
Authority saying it isn't part of their systematic.
Incitement the system and excitement now.
The Palestinian.
Of course.
I came back and leaned is don't think that this attack but like many others has really an outlet that the occupation.
Meals to sell US officials responding and the US ambassador to treatment.
Leading calling this an unprovoked attack.
Just minutes yes and see.
And the truth consulate out.
A statement also saying that this horrific attack in more than they were condemning anybody with them now we the fight this attack.
That of course is the reference from Islamic terrorist group which poverty breeze this attack from Vermont now.
All of this happening.
Just out is really out.
President's senior international negotiator to ice cream plant right here in the region.
He's here try to advance.
On those peace and today he got a stark reminder of just how difficult that process could be help.
Quickly violence here can break out and leave mourning family.
Think entertaining NC BC news centered on the Miller hear it that the settlement of a dark answers.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Girl sings to great-grandmother suffering from dementia

This year and I challenge time.
And I am obese rules hold eat me you me happy.
Well this guy yeah.
Keene.
Hanging like Jack had he.
He's two and my concerns I have laying.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for North Korea claps back at Trump in continued war of words

Next, to that new threat from North Korea tonight.
Its top dip lope mat saying that president trump's verbal attacks are a declaration of war and his country now has the right to respond.
Here's ABC's chief global affairs correspondent Martha Raddatz tonight.
Reporter: Tonight, north Korea calling the escalating public threats from president trump a "Declaration of war."
Rocket man should've been handled a long time ago.
Little rocket man.
We're going to do it.
Because we really have no choice.
Reporter: After those words, a tweet.
The president threatening the leaders of North Korea, saying that if they keep up provocations, they "Won't be around much longer."
While U.S.
Bombers pushing further off the coast of north Korea, the farthest north they've been in nearly two decades.
North Korea now threatening to shoot those bombers down.
And at the white house today -- We've not declared war on North Korea, and frankly the suggestion of that is absurd.
A lot going on and let's get to Martha now.
Sobering words from the president's national security adviser tonight, H.R.
Mcmaster.
Reporter: Yeah, David, he said what we hope to do is to avoid war, but we cannot discount that possibility.
As you said, sobering.
Martha Raddatz, good to have you here tonight.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New video shows destruction near Raqqa after coalition strikes

I'm ready I art starring in a new ABC drama called good doctor like his surge in new.
Happened to have autism and in the senior about to see explains why he wants to join a hospital staff take a look.
Should have become adults.
They should have.
Had children of their own.
Love those children.
And I want to make that possible.
For other people.
About how it is playing this character.
It's great to I knew when I finished basement how this came along that should be a good anymore they you know couldn't be when you played Norman Bates yes killing people are saving lives thankfully.
But now it's a wonderful show I'm just the united.
Can think I'd be so lucky as to have another thing separating comings and quickly and this is a brilliant Doctor Who happens to have autism.
A good you've got to be hopeful that this raises awareness.
Yes yes of course most of the same time remaining aware of the fact that shall never.
Nor should we try and make him represent everyone adults hasn't been so.
What I liked about him really is his hopeful.
Outlook on life his optimism which I think.
You know today even in the world in general but also within the confines of a hospital when there's so much home break and.
Sadness is as a refreshing turn to to half a percent to be absolutely.
And and they show comes from the creator of house.
Which starred another British fabulous actor who we love here Hugh Laurie who also perfected an American accents so you have to know a lot about.
Very intricate surgery.
A lot of technical terms and then get that accent is that.
It's like Demi talk about chewing gum and walking in saint act.
This is serious.
There's a lot of the medical jargon they should you give me more more as time.
But I A it's financially speaking in my.
Normal voice because you are trying stand the American acts as much as possible and sentence.
I'm back filming again.
Tomorrow and it sort of re learning how high speed had probably like overboard do britches to mature into any American dollars every day.
I just thought you hated they're American midwest.
You have I guess you'll want to watch her seeing yeah.
I did a lot of flooded it ended actually.
It's well done and you can see it tonight the good doctor premieres tonight.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Dog rescued from rubble 6 days after Mexico earthquake

In today's tech sites ordering hot food from Amazon getting online retailer will soon be delivering orders from chipotle five guys and shake shack among others.
After teaming up with an online order in company that represents 200 brands a few weeks ago Amazon also launched one hour beer wine or alcohol delivery on the competition is on Wal-Mart is teaming up with the maker of a Smart.
Home security system to deliver groceries.
Write to your fridge even when you're not halt the delivery would be monitored by security cameras and homeowners can watch on a special app.
It's being tested in Silicon Valley.
And a little girl is caught on camera hopelessly trapped in the technology time more than toddlers trying to play with an old game boy but she is baffled by the lack of a touch screen.
She never even tries the big manual buttons or the upper down arrows hard to believe the game boy was all the rage and it debuted back in nineteen he was ahead of its time.
Those are separate.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Merkel wins fourth term as German far-right party makes gains

Gender congratulations.
On an incredible rookie season just an incredible playoff run last year you on the Web.Com tour could you ever imagined in your wildest dreams.
You'd be sitting up here as the tour championship winner in the final event of the year.
I think we all know the answer to that could happen absolutely not.
It's just it's been a while Grammy night by weasel my way and just from last week I've just been kind of weasel my way around all your success.
Just stand here and can hold this is is truly an honor.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
{"id":50067447,"title":"Aurora Borealis as seen from the ISS","duration":"0:43","description":"Stunning time-lapse video released by European Space Agency shows the Aurora Borealis as seen from the International Space Station.
","url":"/International/video/aurora-borealis-iss-50067447","section":"International","mediaType":"default"}
Transcript for An urgent recall from the Death Wish Coffee Company

Time now for our "Index."
Breaking news, president trump revealing his new travel ban.
The current ban expiring today.
The president issuing a new order, imposing travel restrictions on Chad, Iran, nof North Korea, Syria, and Yemen.
Now to the air show horror overseas.
An Italian air force jet completing a loop mid-performance failing to get enough altitude and plunging down into the sea.
It happened south of Rome.
Officials saying that pilot was killed.
And we're also following a coffee recall.
The fda saying watch out for nitro brew made by the death wish coffee company.
This is not a joke.
The 11-ounce cans may contain botulism, a potentially fatal food poisoning.
Makers of the coffee, which has about four or five times the caffeine of a regular cup, say throw it away or return it for a refund.
They say they are halting production until they adjust their manufacturing process.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Third Invictus games kicks off in Toronto

Finally tonight, invictus is Latin for unconquered.
And tonight, it's also the very definition of the word comeback.
Here's Marci Gonzalez.
Reporter: A decade after his vehicle struck an ied in Iraq killing the soldier next to him and leaving him with a spinal cord injury, colonel Daniel Dudek, taking on this challenge, on the track and in the pool.
It's more than an honor.
It's part of his healing.
He is one of the 550 injured military veteran athletes from 17 countries competing in this year's invictus games in Toronto.
Now in his 26th year of military service, he is still on active duty.
As he fights to take home a medal for team usa.
I'm gonna beat my times, I'm gonna do what I can to win.
Reporter: And in the owds, the creator of the invictus games, prince Harry.
He is a warrior, I feel like he is one of us.
Reporter: First lady Melania trump also there.
But for Dudek, the focus is on the inspiration this competition can spark for wounded warriors.
Heroes, just like him.
Things like this hopefully can put a spotlight on something that I love and I want other disabled people to love.
Reporter: Marci Gonzales, ABC news.
Thanks to Marcy and the organizers of the invictus games, and all the incredible athletes.
Thanks so much for watching.
I'm Tom llamas in New York.
"Gma" first thing in the

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tensions escalate between Trump and Kim Jong Un

Next up, the U.S. With a show of force, sending a message to North Korea.
American bombers flying near the north Korean coast.
As president trump and the regime trade new insults.
The president calling Kim Jong-un little rocket man.
North Korea warning that an attack on the U.S. Is becoming more inevitable.
Here's Bob woodruff.
Reporter: American b-1 bombers and f-15 fighter jets took off in the night, flying farther north of the dmz than any time in nearly two decades.
While in Pyongyang this weekend, thousands marched through the streets during a rally against the U.S.
The show of force from both nations comes as the volley of insults reaches an alarming level.
President trump tweeted Saturday, "Just heard foreign minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of little rocket man they won't be around much longer."
His tweet comes after the north Korean foreign minister slammed the president at the united nations, calling him "A mentally deranged person" who "Committed an irreversible mistake."
Days earlier, president trump in the same venue with that warning.
If it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.
Reporter: North Korea then threatened to test a hydrogen bomb above the pacific ocean, something they have never done before.
Everything he has said he would do.
I will test a hydrogen bomb, I will send an icbm test.
He's done.
So why wouldn't he test a hydrogen bomb over the pacific?
I think the likelihood is there that he will test a bomb at some point.
And Bob joins us live.
You've been covering North Korea for more than a decade, you were just on the north korean/china border.
And you told me something you've never seen before?
The tension is growing.
Probably with more missile launches and nuclear tests.
But bottom line, they have no idea what Kim Jong-un will do, he's unpredictable compared to his father and grandfather.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
On paper at least, the Mexico City school appeared to be structurally sound and built to withstand a major earthquake.
But it collapsed, killing 26 people, most of them children.
And now authorities are looking into whether an apartment reportedly built on top of the two-story school was to blame.
Claudia Sheinbaum, the borough president of the southern Mexico City district where the school went down in the 7.1 magnitude quake, told a news conference Tuesday that the school appeared to have its paperwork in order, at least according to documents filed by architects and engineers who supposedly inspected the structure.
She said an investigation was being launched to look for any abnormalities not revealed in those documents.
"We can't stop just with the paperwork," Sheinbaum said.
"We are going to do a review of the building itself."
Authorities said that the owner of the privately owned Enrique Rebsamen school built an apartment for herself on top of the collapsed wing, which local media said included a Jacuzzi, and were looking into whether the extra weight may have played a role in the collapse.
Sheinbaum said she didn't know if that was true, but said the owner, M?nica Garc?a Villegas, had a permit dating back to 1983 to build a school and apartments on the lot, though it was unclear whether she had permission to add a third story to the section of the school that collapsed.
The school was just one of dozens of buildings that collapsed in the Sept. 19 quake that killed at least 333 people, 194 of them in Mexico City.
Questions have been raised about whether new building standards put in place after a 1985 quake that killed 9,500 people had been adequately followed.
Although construction began on the school in 1983  two years before the new codes went into effect  it was expanded over the next 34 years with no evidence of noncompliance, Sheinbaum said.
She said the only immediately evident paper work problems during that time were two cases of unregistered expansion work, and Garcia Villegas paid a fine for not registering the work and was allowed to proceed.
Phone calls to a number registered to Garcia Villegas  who was pulled alive from the rubble  rang unanswered.
Seismologists and engineers say the Mexico City buildings most at risk in a quake are those, like the school building, that were built atop an Aztec-era lake bed, where the muddy soil can amplify earthquake waves.
But, although an architect signed a document certifying the school was structurally sound, experts questioned the method used to evaluate it, which Sheinbaum said involved piling sandbags on its upper floors to simulate 85 percent of the structure's maximum design-carrying weight, and then measuring the resulting floor sag.
Kit Miyamoto, a structural engineer and California Seismic Safety Commissioner, said sandbags can't test for earthquake resistance.
"Seismic is a lateral force, so if you just put a whole bunch of sandbags it is not going to tell you the story of the seismic capacity of the building at all," Miyamoto said.
"You can do testing, to determine what kind of reinforcement" a building has, including ground-penetrating radar or exposing rebar.
The school's first wing was built in 1983, but other additions and floors were added over the years, said Francisco Garcia Alvarez, president of the Mexican Society of Structural Engineers, who evaluated the school site after its collapse.
A third floor appeared to have been added recently to the original 1983 structure that was toppled in the quake, raising questions about what construction permits, if any, the school had obtained, how recently it had been inspected and what architectural plans were submitted in the first place.
Paper work filed as recently as June by a private architect working for the school asserted that the parcel had not been modified in a way that would violate the permitted land use.
The quake, whose epicenter was only about 100 miles from the capital, hit the city's south side where the school is located with a force much stronger than the original school structure was built to withstand in the early 1980s, Garcia Alvarez said.
That caused a failure in the building's joints where the columns met the beams, he said, noting that the addition of a third floor would have added more weight to the structure.
Still, he said, its possible role in the collapse needed further study.
Sheinbaum, who is widely expected to run for mayor, faces heightened political scrutiny over the school's collapse, which killed 19 children and seven adults, leaving behind a pile of wreckage still visible in a cordoned-off street of the leafy neighborhood manned by soldiers.
"We all just keep working, but then all of a sudden it hits you," said Alfonso Martinez, one of hundreds of volunteers who have been ferrying shovels, hard hats, food and water to rescue workers since the earthquake struck last week.
"People are going in and out of grief about all the lives that were lost."
Neighbors said that the school had grown quickly over the years and they had noted new construction.
"We saw there was a third floor put on there but we didn't suspect someone was living there," said Juan Antonio Gudino.
"I just thought it was an office."
Across Mexico City, some 40 buildings collapsed in the earthquake and some 500 others were so severely damaged they will either have to be demolished or receive major structural reinforcement, according to Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera.
Another 1,300 are reparable, and about 10,000 buildings inspected so far were found to be habitable.
Still, experts stressed that reforms to building codes following the 1985 earthquake had lowered the number of casualties.
But, they said, more needed to be done to ensure compliance.
"From what we can tell the new codes worked well, and helped avoid more harm," said Eduardo Miranda, a professor in Stanford University's civil and structural engineering department, who evaluated buildings following the quake.
"But some of these buildings may have failed because people did not follow the codes."
Unlike in the United States, where city engineers typically check architectural drawings for structural integrity, authorities in Mexico City perform an administrative check of submitted plans, but don't vet structural calculations, he said.
Two blocks from the school, bouquets of white chrysanthemums line a makeshift memorial with the names of those pulled from the wreckage  a reminder of the tragedy that befell the school.
"We were all focused on following the code," Sheinbaum said.
"We are all asking ourselves if we could have done more."
Associated Press writer Mark Stevenson contributed to this report.
Women will be allowed to drive for the first time next summer in Saudi Arabia, the ultra-conservative kingdom announced Tuesday, marking a significant expansion of women's rights in the only the country that barred them from getting behind the wheel.
While women in other Muslim countries drove freely, the kingdom's blanket ban attracted negative publicity for years.
Neither Islamic law nor Saudi traffic law explicitly prohibited women from driving, but they were not issued licenses and were detained if they attempted to drive.
Prince Khaled bin Salman, Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Washington and the king's son, said letting women drive is a "huge step forward" and that "society is ready."
"This is the right time to do the right thing," he told reporters in the U.S. Women will be allowed to obtain licenses without the permission of a male relative.
The announcement came in the form of a royal decree that was reported late Tuesday by the state-run Saudi Press Agency and state TV.
"I am really excited.
This is a good step forward for women's rights," said Aziza Youssef, a professor at King Saud University and one of Saudi Arabia's most vocal women's rights activists.
Speaking to The Associated Press from Riyadh, she said women were "happy" but also that the change was "the first step in a lot of rights we are waiting for."
Saudi history offers many examples of women being punished simply for operating a vehicle.
In 1990, 50 women were arrested for driving and lost their passports and their jobs.
More than 20 years later, a woman was sentenced in 2011 to 10 lashes for driving, though the late King Abdullah overturned the sentence.
As recently as late 2014, two Saudi women were detained for more than two months for defying the ban on driving when one of them attempted to cross the Saudi border with a license from neighboring United Arab Emirates in an act of defiance.
Youssef took part in numerous driving campaigns, including a widely publicized effort in 2013 when dozens of women across the kingdom uploaded videos to YouTube of themselves driving in Saudi Arabia.
Some videos showed families and male drivers giving women a "thumbs-ups," suggesting many were ready for the change.
The decree indicated that women will not be allowed to drive immediately.
A committee will be formed to look into how to implement the new order, which is slated to take effect in June 2018.
For years, the kingdom has incrementally granted women more rights and visibility, including participation in the Olympic Games in London and Rio, positions on the country's top consultative council and the right to run and vote in local elections in 2015.
Despite these openings, Saudi women remain largely subject to the whims of men due to guardianship laws , which bar them from obtaining a passport, traveling abroad or marrying without the consent of a male relative.
Women who attempt to flee abusive families have also faced imprisonment or been forced into shelters.
King Salman and his young son and heir, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, tested the waters over the weekend by allowing women into the country's main stadium in Riyadh for annual celebrations of the nation's founding.
The stadium had previously been reserved for all-male crowds to watch sporting events.
Women and men also flooded a main street in the capital, bopping their heads to pop music as green lights flickered overhead in the color of the flag.
The scene was shocking for a city in which gender segregation is strictly enforced and where women are seldom seen walking the streets, much less mixing in close quarters with males.
The 32-year-old crown prince has also opened the country to more entertainment , allowing musical concerts and even a Comic-Con event as part of a wide-ranging push to reform the economy and society.
This year, the government announced that for the first time girls in public schools would be allowed to play sports and have access to physical education.
The decree stated that the majority of Muslim scholars on the country's highest clerical council agreed that Islam allows women the right to drive.
However, many of those same ultraconservative clerics, who wield power and influence in the judiciary and education sectors, have also spoken out in the past against women driving, playing sports or entering the workforce.
They argue such acts corrupt society and lead to sin.
One Saudi cleric even stated in 2013 that driving could affect a woman's ovaries and hurt her fertility.
That same year, around 150 clerics and religious scholars held a rare protest outside the Saudi king's palace against efforts by women seeking the right to drive.
Women in Saudi Arabia have long had to rely on male relatives to get to work or run errands, complicating government efforts to boost household incomes as lower oil prices force austerity measures.
The more affluent have male drivers.
In major cities, women can access ride-hailing apps such as Uber and Careem.
To celebrate Tuesday's decree, several Saudi women posted images on social media deleting their ride sharing apps.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert called the move "a great step in the right direction."
She did not comment on whether Saudi Arabia still needs to do more to ensure full rights for its female citizens.
Lori Boghardt, a Gulf specialist at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said the change is yet another sign that the crown prince is intent on adopting social reforms that will transform the kingdom.
"Today it's especially clear that this includes moves that've long been thought of by Saudis as politically risky," she said.
Batrawy reported from Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
Associated Press writers Jon Gambrell and Malak Harb in Dubai, and Josh Lederman in Washington contributed to this report.
Iran's deputy foreign minister is pointing at the United States while warning that a new nuclear arms race and a new competition to modernize nuclear weapons are starting.
Abbas Araghchi told a high-level meeting of the U.N. General Assembly to promote the International Day for the Total Elimination of Nuclear Weapons on Tuesday that working toward that goal "is a legal, political and moral responsibility."
But, he said, "recently we hear alarming announcement by a nuclear-weapon state that it intends to continuously strengthen and expand its nuclear arsenal to ensure its place 'at the top of the pack.'"
This was a clear reference to President Donald Trump's comment in February that if countries are going to have nukes, the U.S. is "going to be at the top of the pack."
A married mother who set up a fake Facebook profile to seemingly entice a teenage boy into meeting her with her was sentenced Tuesday to three years in prison.
Marie Dent, 44, a mother of two, from the United Kingdom, posed as a teenage girl on her fake social media account to contact a 15-year-old boy, the BBC reported.
Dent  described as a predator by law enforcement  and the teenager later engaged in sexual activity in the boys bedroom.
The woman, who reportedly took the teen on a beach date, went on to buy the boys mother chocolates ahead of meeting her and hid her hair over her face during the encounter, according to The Sun.
NEW JERSEY POLICE DETECTIVE FATHERS CHILD WITH 15-YEAR-OLD, IS CHARGED WITH SEXUAL ASSAULT OF MINOR

Dent and the teen boy reportedly met once in November 2016, and again in December, both times claiming she was also 15.
Dent was arrested two days later after the teens family contacted authorities.
The boy and Dent allegedly argued about her age when they had met in late 2016, but the teen stated he wasnt pressured into sexual activity with the woman although he did not initiate the activity.
Dents defense argued in court that Dents behavior was prompted by emotional needs and not sexual gratification, after suffering abuse throughout her life.
In August, Dent admitted to three charges of sexual activity and pleaded guilty to possessing indecent images, The Sun reported.
Dent was sentenced to three years in prison and has been placed on a sex offender registry.
ISIS is still dangerous in parts of Iraq  and in Kiruk, theyre just across from the Kurdish frontlines.
But on Tuesday, Kurdish soldiers are preparing to defend against a very different threat  Baghdad.
One day after the referendum, which saw an over 70 percent turnout, and around 3.3 million people vote in a resounding yes, soldiers manning those lines, told Fox News proudly that this frontline was the new Kurdish border.
Be assured we will stay in these trenches  whether its the militias, or ISIS or the Iraqi army who come  this is our border.
We will never leave, said Mofaq Borhan Ibrahim, a first lieutenant in the Peshmerga forces.
IRAQI KURDS CELEBRATE ON THE STREETS AFTER CASTING VOTE FOR INDEPENDENCE

But on Tuesday, the governor of disputed, oil-rich Kirkuk, Dr. Najmaldin Karim, as well as other Kurdish politicians, tried to downplay that.
But every soldier I spoke to believes it is.
To them, this is their land  theyve fought for it and many have died for it.
And now two U.S. allies are sitting on a tinderbox that could erupt into a full blown conflict.
WHATS NEXT AFTER IRAQI KURDS VOTE ON INDEPENDENCE

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says his country is considering all options, ranging from military intervention to economic sanctions against Iraq's Kurdish region.
He added that the landlocked Iraqi Kurdish region would not be able to survive without Turkey's support.
The Turkish leader said no country other than Israel supports the Iraqi Kurdish referendum on independence, which he described as "invalid" and "fraudulent" and said attempts by Kurds to form an independent state are doomed to fail.
We are not looking for war, Karim said.
But the Peshmerga will defend the city under any circumstances
Women in Saudi Arabia will now be allowed to obtain drivers licenses, as per an order from King Salman, reports said on Tuesday.
The historic announcement, which reverses a decades-old law prohibiting the act, was announced in a state television broadcast, The New York Times reported.
The law will reportedly not take effect immediately due to necessary societal changes.
Currently, the kingdom has no system set up in order to teach or distribute licenses to women, The New York Times reported.
Also, they say police will need to be trained on how officers may interact with women in society.
In Saudi culture, it is reportedly uncommon for men and women who are not related to interact frequently.
According to the Saudi Press Agency, the decree reportedly ordered the establishment of a committee, who is expected to give advice on how to proceed with the new law within 30 days, BBC reported.
The order is expected to be in effect by June 2018.
CHINAS MANIPULATION OF UN HUMAN RIGHTS EFFORTS MUST BE STOPPED

The royal decree will implement the provisions of traffic regulations, including the issuance of driving licenses for men and women alike, the report said according to BBC.
In the announcement, officials noted the damage the previous law had done to the countrys reputation.
Saudi Arabia has long been the recipient of significant criticism over the rule, calling it a repression of women.
It was also the only country in the world that barred women from driving.
Officials reportedly hope that the new policy will help undo some of the negative publicity the country has received regarding the matter.
TUNISIAN WOMENS RIGHTS PLAN RATTLES MUSLIM TRADITIONALISTS

U.S. State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the U.S. is happy with the move, calling it a great step in the right direction for that country.
But Nauert hasnt commented on whether Saudi Arabia still needs to do more to ensure full rights for its female citizens.
For many years, activists have argued that the ban is unjust and should be overturned.
But Saudi officials have justified the law, saying that it was inappropriate in Saudi culture for women to drive, or that male drivers would not know how to handle women in cars next to them, The New York Times reported.
Others have also reportedly claimed that overturning the order would lead women to act promiscuously.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
A new round of U.N.-sponsored talks aimed at uniting Libya's rival factions has opened in neighboring Tunisia.
An "action plan" for dialogue was on the table at a meeting on Tuesday opened by the U.N. chief's special envoy for Libya, Ghassan Salame.
Libya sank into chaos following the 2011 uprising that toppled and killed leader Moammar Gadhafi.
Two rival leaders recently agreed to cooperate to pull Libya from the crisis that threatens the region and ultimately Europe.
The final goal is big: a national conference with all Libyan parties, adoption of a constitution and presidential elections.
More immediately, they aim to thrash out amendments to a 2015 peace accord reached in Skhirat, Morocco.
Salame said there's "no doubt" the accord's legitimacy would be strengthened with broad support among Libyans.
The Latest on Saudi Arabia allowing women to drive (all times local):

10:35 p.m.
The United States has welcomed Saudi Arabia's announcement that women will be allowed to drive for the first time.
State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert says the U.S. is "happy" with the move.
Nauert is calling it "a great step in the right direction for that country."
But Nauert isn't commenting on whether Saudi Arabia still needs to do more to ensure full rights for its female citizens.
The move comes as Saudi Arabia works to improve its image and the perception of its human rights record in the United States and the West.
___

10:30 p.m.

Saudi Arabia says it will allow women to drive for the first time in the ultra-conservative kingdom.
The kingdom, which announced the change on Tuesday, was the only the country in the world to bar women from driving and for years had garnered negative publicity internationally for detaining women who defied the ban.
Women's rights activists since the 1990s have been pushing for the right to drive, saying it represents their larger struggle for equal rights under the law.
The state-run Saudi Press Agency and state TV reported the news late Tuesday evening, saying a royal order was issued for both men and women to be issued drivers' licenses.
A committee will be formed to look into how to implement the new order.
Saudi Arabia says it will allow women to drive for the first time in the ultra-conservative kingdom.
The kingdom, which announced the change on Tuesday, was the only the country in the world to bar women from driving and for years had garnered negative publicity internationally for detaining women who defied the ban.
Women's rights activists since the 1990s have been pushing for the right to drive, saying it represents their larger struggle for equal rights under the law.
The state-run Saudi Press Agency and state TV reported the news late Tuesday evening, saying a royal order was issued for both men and women to be issued drivers' licenses.
A committee will be formed to look into how to implement the new order.
Guatemalan authorities say the country's former ambassador to the United States has been arrested in Spain on an international warrant for alleged campaign finance violations.
National Civil Police spokesman Pablo Castillo says that Interpol in Spain informed Guatemala of the arrest of 61-year-old Jose Ligorria Carballido.
Guatemalan prosecutors and a U.N. anti-corruption commission announced in July that Ligorria had acted as the middleman between business interests and politicians in the transfer of about $2 million to the Patriot Party.
That party carried ex-President Otto Perez Molina to office.
Perez Molina resigned in 2015 and is jailed awaiting trial on corruption charges.
Italian officials have urged Libyan military strongman Khalifa Hifter to "contribute effectively" to the U.N. effort to stabilize Libya, and ruled out any military solution to end Libya's chaos.
Hifter met Tuesday with Defense Minister Roberta Pinotti as part of Italy's efforts stabilize its former colony and stem the flow of migrants to Europe.
The ministry said Pinotti repeated Italy's support for the U.N. process of dialogue to work toward elections "and hopes that all sides can contribute effectively to the strategy, excluding any military solution."
Libya sank into chaos following the 2011 uprising that toppled and killed dictator Moammar Gadhafi.
It is split between rival parliaments, governments and militias in the east and west, but in July Hifter and his west-based rival Fayez Serraj, pledged to cooperate.
next

prev

The Latest on Hurricane Maria (all times local):

2:40 p.m.
The federal government will pick up 100 percent of the costs of debris removal and other emergency assistance to Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria.
President Donald Trump made the change Tuesday as part of an amendment to his earlier disaster declaration authorizing federal aid.
U.S. states and territories typically cover 25 percent of the costs, with the federal government paying the remaining 75 percent.
But the island's government is so strapped for cash that Puerto Rican officials and sympathetic members of Congress had called on Trump to waive the cost-sharing requirement.
Trump's declaration covers the removal of downed trees, utility poles and other debris, as well as spending for emergency measures to protect lives and public health and safety.
___

1:25 p.m.
It's getting easier to leave Puerto Rico, where more than 3.4 million U.S. citizens still lack adequate food, water and fuel five days after Maria pounded the island as a Category 4 hurricane.
The Federal Aviation Administration says the Luis Munoz Marin International Airport in San Juan is handling nearly 100 arrivals and departures daily, including military and relief operations as well as more than a dozen commercial passenger flights per day.
The agency is taking reservations for arrival and departure slots to manage space at the airport and safely separate aircraft in the air.
Maria destroyed or disabled a number of essential radar, navigation and communication systems, so the FAA has been bringing in replacements by air and sea, and technicians are working now to get them working.
The FAA says a long-range radar in the Turks and Caicos returned to service on Monday, giving air traffic controllers a much better picture of planes and helicopters in the region.
Meanwhile, technicians are using chain saws to cut a path through a rain forest to reach a mountaintop where a second long-range radar site remains offline.
___

12:45 p.m.
The Federal Highway Administration is helping Puerto Rico with damage assessments so that emergency relief money can help restore roads throughout the island.
The TS Kennedy, a former commercial freighter used by the Maritime Administration for training, is currently sailing from Texas to the Virgin Islands to support hurricane recovery efforts in the U.S. Virgin Island and Puerto Rico.
The Federal Transit Administration is working with FEMA on improving ferry service between Puerto Rico islands.
As of Monday, limited ferry service was available during daylight hours to transport emergency supplies to Vieques and Culebra.
___

11:55 a.m.

Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello says he's spoken "as recently as last night" to President Donald Trump about the crisis Hurricane Maria caused on the island.
He says he's "confident the president understands the magnitude of the situation."
Speaking to reporters Tuesday at a Puma gas facility in San Juan, Rossello said "the president has offered a waiver on matching funds" for aid from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which means the cash-strapped island won't have to contribute to the initial costs of this federal help.
Rossello said he'd be speaking with Trump later today to discuss "a long-term recovery package for Puerto Rico to be presented to Congress," apparently next week.
He also said New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie has offered to send a National Guard unit to aid in security

___

9:45 a.m.

Officials in North Carolina estimate more than 10,000 people have left the Outer Banks as Hurricane Maria moves closer.
Dare County Emergency Management Director Drew Pearson said Tuesday morning that it's impossible to get exact figures on how many people evacuated Hatteras Island after they were ordered to do so.
But Pearson said officials think between 10,000 and 12,500 people have left the island ahead of the storm.
Hatteras has a year-round population of about 500 people, who are not required to leave.
Pearson said the worst conditions were expected Wednesday into Thursday morning.
Hyde County officials said Monday they thought about 700 visitors would leave because of the evacuation ordered for Ocracoke Island.
Ocracoke has a population of about 1,000 residents.
A tropical storm warning is in effect from Morehead City to the North Carolina-Virginia state line.
___

7:30 a.m.

North Carolina's Outer Banks are bracing for the effects of Hurricane Maria, even though the storm is expected to pass the state at least 150 miles (240 kilometers) offshore.
Schools were closed Tuesday in all of Dare County because of expected tropical storm conditions.
Dare County includes much of the Outer Banks, as well as some inland areas along Pamlico Sound.
The National Weather Service in Morehead City, North Carolina, said significant beach erosion is expected north of Cape Lookout.
Storm surge of between 2 feet (0.6 meters) and four feet (1 meter) is expected, mostly north of Cape Hatteras.
Officials ordered visitors to leave both Ocracoke and Hatteras islands ahead of the storm.
They warned dangerous rip currents were possible in the ocean for the rest of the week.
___

6 a.m.

Hurricane Maria has weakened slightly as it moves northward in the Atlantic off the coast of the Carolinas.
Maria's maximum sustained winds Tuesday morning are near 75 mph (120 kph).
The U.S. National Hurricane Center says Maria is expected to keep gradually weakening and is forecast to become a tropical storm Tuesday night or Wednesday.
The storm is centered about 210 miles (340 kilometers) southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, and is moving north at 7 mph (11 kph).
A tropical storm warning is in effect for a swath of the North Carolina coast from Bogue Inlet to the Virginia border.
A Scottish family claims a mystery block of ice fell out the sky Tuesday and crash-landed in their garden, forming a nearly man-sized crater.
Eleanor Stephen told The Daily Express she was inside the home of the Helliwell family in Busby, Renfrewshire, when she heard a big boom outside.
I thought it was an explosion and I felt the house shake, said the neighbor, who works for Ross Helliwell.
The crater is nearly 5 feet long and experts suspect the ice fell off the body of a passing airplane, The Daily Express reported.
"We just don't know where it came from.
It's a complete mystery," Stephen told The Daily Express.
Lyndsey Helliwell, the mother of daughters Elise, 9, and Nuala, 13, said she was grateful that no one was outside at the time of impact.
There are around 2.5 million flights a year in UK airspace but only around 25 ice falls are reported to officials annually, according to The Daily Express.
Click for more from The Daily Express.
Witch doctors are sacrificing children in Uganda, looking to turn the tide with miracles in the drought-stricken country, a new report says.
Officials in Uganda say the number of human sacrifices are on the rise, as the East African country battles its worst drought in more than half a century.
More than 11 million people are facing food insecurity and more than 1.6 million are on the brink of famine.
There is no food due to the ongoing drought, and some believe that this has been brought by ancestral spirits, Joel Mugoya, a traditional, told the Religion News Service, according to USA Today.
So there is a high desire for people to conduct sacrifices so that they come out of this problem.
Sacrifices often involve removing body parts, blood or tissue while the child is alive.
Its a brutal ritual that destroys the lives of our children and affects their parents mentally, said Pastor Peter Sewakiryanga, leader of Kyampisi Childcare Ministries.
We are working with police to arrest witch doctors involved in the ritual.
We are also assisting the survivors financially and with moral support.
Moses Binoga, a police officer who heads the countrys Anti-Human Sacrifice and Trafficking Task Force, said seven children were sacrificed last year and seven children and six adults were sacrificed in 2015.
The numbers could be even higher, however.
Just this month, more than 44 people were arrested in connection with a spate of murders of women and children.
One man arrested reportedly confessed to killing 8 women, Uganda Police Inspector General Kale Kayihura said.
The murders were for ritual sacrifices, he said last week.
We are working hard to arrest the remaining suspects and end the practice.
One such murder was that of 8-year-old John Lubega, whose remains were found in a swamp in February without teeth, lips, ears and genitals.
My innocent son died a painful death, Jackline Mukisa, 28, said.
How could somebody intend to murder my son?
Church leaders across the country are teaming up with police in hopes of ending the brutal practice.
Sewakiryanga said children are disappearing across the country every week.
Most often they are found dead, or alive with missing body parts.
Its a serious problem but we are fighting it with the help of the government, he added.
In June, a Ugandan court sentenced a witch doctor to life in prison for sacrificing a 7-year-old girl named Suubi.
According to authorities, the witch doctor drained her blood and cut out her genitals before cutting the neck and draining the blood of her 10-year-old brother, Kanani.
According to KidsRights, a global organization that advocated for children, Uganda has 650,000 registered traditional leaders and about 3 million unregistered practitioners.
Child sacrifices are also reportedly practiced in Tanzania, Nigeria, Swaziland, Liberia, Botswana, South Africa, Namibia and Zimbabwe.
A Zimbabwean court has ordered the release of an anti-government pastor arrested for circulated videos highlighting the country's worsening economic problems.
Magistrate Elisha Singano Tuesday freed Evan Mawarire saying prosecutors had failed to bring the outspoken pastor before a court within 48 hours as prescribed by the law.
Police arrested Mawarire after a church service he presided Sunday.
He was charged with subverting a constitutionally elected government.
This was after he posted videos that include images of long lines of people waiting for fuel Saturday.
In the videos, Mawarire accuses the government of 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe of being insensitive to problems affecting the once-prosperous southern African country.
On Monday he appeared before a High Court judge on a separate subversion charge linked to earlier anti-government campaigns.
Mawarire fled to the United States last year after his involvement in protests.
He returned in February and was charged with subversion, which carries a maximum of a 20-year jail term.
Mawarire rose to prominence in 2016 when he used social media to organize the country's biggest anti-government protests in a decade.
A cabinet minister in charge of the police Sunday warned against using social media to "cause alarm and despondency."
British police have released all but one of the seven suspects they arrested over the recent attack on a London subway train.
The three men released Tuesday face no further police action.
The only person still in custody is 18-year-old Ahmed Hassan, who has been charged with attempted murder and other crimes.
The investigation of the Sept. 15 attack on a train at Parsons Green station has been wide-ranging

A homemade bomb filled with lethal shrapnel partially exploded, injuring 30 people during the rush hour commute.
Officials said the casualty toll would have been far higher if it had fully detonated.
The Islamic State extremist group claimed responsibility but British officials have not confirmed its role.
The Brazilian government has backtracked on its decision to open up a huge reserve in the Amazon rainforest to commercial mining.
President Michel Temer signed a decree in August opening the 46,500-square-kilometer (17,950-square-mile) Renca reserve, which roughly is the size of Switzerland and is rich in gold, iron, manganese and other minerals.
The decree has been sharply criticized by indigenous rights groups, environmentalists, anthropologists and the Catholic church, among others.
On Tuesday, its revocation was published in the government's official gazette.
The Mines and Energy Ministry said the government plans to reconsider the issue in the future.
Victims of a contaminated blood scandal that killed hundreds in Britain in the 1970s and '80s have won the right to launch a court action seeking damages.
The claimants allege that officials failed to take reasonable care when tainted blood products were used to treat thousands of public health patients, killing at least 2,400, according to officials.
The High Court said Tuesday an order would be issued to allow surviving patients and families of those who died to join together to claim compensation.
Many of the victims were hemophiliacs, and were infected with the HIV virus or hepatitis C.

In July, British Prime Minister Theresa May ordered a public inquiry into what she called an "appalling injustice" and whether there had been a cover-up.
A Canadian groom stopped posing for wedding photos with his newlywed bride on Friday to save a young boy drowning in a pond.
The heroic act by Clayton Cook was caught on camera by the couples wedding photographer, the BBC reported.
Clayton and his wife Brittany were at a bridge in a park near Kitchener, Ontario posing for photographs when three children were nearby cheering the couples recent nuptials.
Clayton Cook told the BBC that he was keeping an eye on the children after they got close to the pond.
I was sort of keeping a close eye on them, just because they were close to the water, he told the BBC.
CHELSEA MANNING SAYS SHE WAS DENIED ENTRY TO CANADA

Clayton said he was waiting to be photographed when he noticed one of the children was not standing on the rock ledge with the others.
I kind of just said to myself: Well, Im pretty sure that just drops off, and Im going to go check just to make sure the kids are OK, he said.
When I got there, they were kind of looking down in the water and pointing.
Thats when I saw the boy  he was in the water, struggling, trying to keep his head up above the water and just flailing his arms quite a bit and just trying to keep air in himself.
Thats when I was able to kind of jump down the rock ledge.
Clayton leapt in to rescue the young boy.
He said he told the boy to grab his hand.
I kind of plucked him out and put him on top of the ledge there, Cook said.
(The little boy) was in a lot of shock, and he was probably pretty tired.
I think he was fighting for longer than I even thought.
Darren Hatt, the photographer, captured the heroic act.
THIRD ROUND OF NAFTA TALKS OPENS IN CANADA

"As soon as I could turn around he had already plunked him on the ground outside the river," Hatt told the BBC.
"So I just kept on capturing the story of the day, including this."
Hatt posted the pictures on the companys Facebook page with a caption that said: A special shout out to last night's groom Clayton!
While I was taking solo pictures of the bride this little guy was pushed into the river behind me by another child.
By the time the bride noticed and shouted out, Clayton had already jumped down and brought him to safety.
His quick action saved the little guy who was struggling to swim.
Well done sir!
Brittany said she thought her husband was joking at first when she saw he had dived into the water.
"We'd like to think most people would probably make the same choice," she said.
Ambassador Nikki Haley is urging South Sudan's leaders to seize "the last chance" to salvage the 2015 peace agreement and end the worsening violence that has forced 4 million people to flee their homes and left 7.6 million in desperate need of aid.
Haley told the U.N. Security Council on Tuesday that "the people of South Sudan are suffering and the promise of their hard-fought independence is slipping away."
She called on the opposing parties to commit themselves to the revitalization process put forward by the East African regional group, IGAD, "to resuscitate the peace agreement  and to do so quickly for time is running short."
Haley's appeal to the parties was echoed by nearly all council members and U.N. special envoy for South Sudan David Shearer.
Poland's president and defense minister are visiting Polish and other NATO troops as they perform major defense exercises.
President Andrzej Duda and Defense Minister Antoni Macierewicz on Tuesday watched land and airborne troops at the test range in Drawsko Pomorskie in northwestern Poland.
The Dragon-17 exercise involves some 17,000 land, air force and navy troops and 3,500 units of equipment from 12 NATO and partner nations.
It runs through Sept. 29 at locations in northern Poland.
For the first time, the biannual drill is being joined by Poland's new Territorial Defense Forces, which train civilian volunteers to support regular troops.
The defensive scenario of the maneuvers was inspired by Russia's 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine.
Poland and the Baltic region are concerned about Russia's increased military activity.
WeUber said Tuesday it will cease operations in Quebec next month if the province doesn't rescind new rules it introduced last week.
Quebec Uber boss Jean-Nicolas Guillemette said it will stop operating on Oct. 14 if the government doesn't back down.
Transport Minister Laurent Lessard said Friday the province would allow Uber to continue to operate if Uber drivers get background checks that are performed by police instead of private security firms.
Uber drivers will also be required to undergo the same number of training hours as traditional taxi drivers, which is 35 hours, instead of 20 hours.
Guillemette said the province didn't consult with the company before introducing the new rules.
He said it makes it impossible for the service to continue in Quebec.
The announcement did not go over well in Quebec.
"I don't care," Montreal Mayor Denis Coderre told BNN news channels.
"Frankly we need to have some regulation and if they threaten to leave I don't care."
Wilbur Ross: Tax reform will raise GDP by 1 percentage point if done right 19 Mins Ago | 02:17

The United States will see its gross domestic product rise by 1 percent if the government can get tax reform "right," according to the commerce secretary.
Getting U.S. tax reform right is important, because it could add nearly $3 trillion in federal government revenue in the next decade, Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
Beyond the federal budget and the lifting of the debt ceiling, the tax program is the "single-most important thing," Ross told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Effective tax reform will "increase the gross domestic product growth by 1 percentage point, so 100 basis points," he said, adding that in 10 years, that would amount to "$10 trillion more GDP, $3 trillion more revenues to the federal government."
"Those are gigantic numbers even for a country the size of the U.S.," he said, "so the tax changes could be transformative events."
China does not need the "preferential treatment" on trade today that would've been justified decades ago, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC on Wednesday.
Ross said the U.S. doesn't mind competition  but that it wants the race to be "on a fair and level playing field."
"That means not so much in the way of trade barriers, not so much in the way of protectionist activities, not so much in the way of impediments in the way of companies operating there, not so much in the way of forced technology transfers, things of that sort," Ross added.
Ross also slammed the World Trade Organization as "archaic," as it was designed for a post-war trade system, not the modern trade world.
The United States made a policy decision after World War II to help Asia and European countries recover from that conflict, but that policy is no longer is as relevant as it once was, he said.
"It's very hard to say that China as now the world's second largest economy needs the same sort of preferential treatment that it might be justified to have decades ago," Ross said.
Wilbur Ross: China 'quite serious' about living up to N.Korea commitments 37 Mins Ago | 02:23

The world's second-largest economy is "quite serious about living up to the commitments they have made regarding North Korea," U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
The order for Chinese lenders to stop doing business with Pyongyang "is a logical next step in the sanctions, and a very important one," he continued.
"Chinese commercial banks had been a big route for facilitation of trade to North Korea so the fact that the PBOC has put out a taboo, that's a very big deal," Ross said, referring to China's central bank, or the People's Bank of China.
Speaking to CNBC's "Squawk Box," Ross called the PBOC move "a gigantic step."
"Assuming that it's followed through and other parts of the sanctions are followed through, that's a very good sign, very, very important pressure."
Before joining President Donald Trump's administration in January, 79-year-old Ross made a fortune investing in distressed assets, which earned him the nickname "king of bankruptcy."
Many of us dream of living and working abroad, but deciding where will provide the most professional and personal benefits is often an entirely different ball game.
HSBC's annual Expat Explorer league table ranks the countries that manage it best, according to surveys from people who have taken the plunge.
The survey was completed by 27,587 expats from 159 countries and territories through an online questionnaire in March and April 2017.
Here's the list of the top 10 for 2017:
India's economic growth hit a three-year low during the April-June period, enveloping Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a barrage of criticism for poor execution of major reforms such as the recent national sales tax and demonetization.
But a new World Economic Forum study indicates his government has made progress in strengthening overall business sentiment.
The South Asian giant ranked 40th out of 137 countries on the organization's 2017 global competitiveness ranking  one spot lower than last year's edition, but still its highest-ever score in WEF's current methodology.
National competitiveness is defined as a set of institutions, policies and factors that determine a country's level of productivity.
Improvement across most pillars of competitiveness, particularly infrastructure and higher education, reflects recent public investments in these areas, WEF said.
Strides in labor market efficiency, especially the nation's ability to attract and retain talent, also helped India's 2017 ranking, the Swiss foundation added.
"The quality of institutions has increased further, especially in terms of efficiency of public spending."
Modi's government has pledged to spend a record $60 billion on infrastructure this financial year, but concerns are rampant that lower tax collections and weak economic growth could force New Delhi to cut expenditures.
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Tuesday it slapped preliminary anti-subsidy duties on CSeries jets made by Bombardier after rival Boeing claimed the aircraft were unfairly subsidized by Canada.
The department imposed a 219.63 percent countervailing duty on Bombardier's new commercial jets after it made a preliminary finding of subsidization.
Boeing has complained the 110-to-130 seat aircraft, which have not yet been imported into the United States, were dumped below cost in the U.S. market last year while benefiting from unfair subsidies.
The China-driven surge in commodity prices could soon come to an end, according to a private survey of Chinese businesses.
Contrary to "markets' unremitting faith in the Chinese government campaign to combat" oversupply in metals, "firms are saying quite the opposite.
For the sixth quarter in a row, coal, aluminum, steel, and copper each saw capacity rise on net," according to the China Beige Book's early brief of third-quarter data released Tuesday.
"Sector-wide growth took a dive across the boardrevenue, profits, output, export orders, volumes, hiring, capex, borrowing, wages, and sales prices," the report said.
The China Beige Book is a quarterly survey of Chinese companies in an attempt to present a more accurate picture of growth.
Many question the accuracy of most Chinese government data, since officials may have incentive to inflate or deflate the figures they report in order to show compliance with central policy.
US disclosed path of B-1B bomber because North Korea didn't seem to know 11 Hours Ago | 01:00

"Whether it's 3 months or 6 months or 18 months, it is soon," Dunford responded.
"We ought to conduct ourselves as though it's just a matter of time and a matter of very short time before North Korea has that capability."
Dunford also agreed with Inhofe that it's especially difficult to get intelligence on North Korea even with the U.S. military's aerial snooping capabilities.
"The North Koreans over time have buried much of their capability underground, which creates new challenges," said the general.
"There's also some specific weather challenges in North Korea that limits our collection at various periods of time."
Besides satellites, the U.S. uses reconnaissance aircraft to monitor the North Koreans along with other means.
However, Dunford indicated that the U.S. military has faced other challenges over time in constantly tracking North Korea because of needs it sometimes has in other hotspots around the globe.
"Part of it also has been the competing demand for a limited amount of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance," said the general.
"Certainly over the last 18 months, we have increased our collection against North Korea.
But for a long period of time we had decreased our collection against North Korea."
Dunford also was asked about North Korea perhaps sharing its missile and other military technology with Iran.
"We have looked at the nexus quite a bit," said Dunford.
"I'm not sure we've seen any transfer of nuclear technology, but we certainly have seen missile technology and a wide range of other weapon systems that they have exported or expertise that they have exported outside of North Korea."
The Obama-era Iran nuclear deal and Iran's increased military presence in other countries also came up during the hearing.
There's a congressional requirement that the administration provide an assessment to Congress of Iran's compliance with the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) every 90 days.
Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) asked the general whether it was in America's national security interest to keep the JCPOA.
Dunford said it was the intelligence community's assessment that Iran is "in compliance right now.
Therefore, we should focus on addressing the other challenges  the missile threat they pose, the maritime threat they pose, the support of proxies, terrorists, and the cyber threat they pose."
Even so, the general said he doesn't plan to publicly share the advice he will give to the president on the Iran nuclear deal until Trump has announced a decision.
The Trump administration has certified Iran's compliance twice under the law, and the next deadline to provide an assessment is Oct. 15.
Trump, who had been sharply critical of the Iran nuclear deal, has indicated he's made his decision on whether Iran is in compliance but hasn't shared it.
In his written testimony to the Senate panel, Dunford said Iran hasn't changed its "malign" activities since the 2015 Iran nuclear deal went into effect.
However, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) asked the general if Iran had "increased the pace or scope of their malign activities."
"I think you can argue that they (Iran) have certainly in Syria," Dunford responded.
"It's been relatively consistent in Yemen with regard to their support for the Houthis, and clearly their support for Lebanese Hezbollah has been at a high level for some period of time.
And you can argue over the last few months, whether it's related to JCPOA or not, that Iranian activity inside Iraq has certainly increased as they look to the end game in Iraq."
Finally, Dunford said if U.S. forces are threatened by Iran "they are both postured and capable of effectively responding."
French President Emmanuel Macron offered an ambitious vision for European renewal on Tuesday, calling for the EU to work more closely on defense and immigration and for the euro zone to have its own budget, ideas he may struggle to implement.
In a nearly two-hour speech delivered two days after the German election in which Chancellor Angela Merkel's alliance underperformed, limiting her freedom to maneuver on Europe, the 39-year-old French president held little back in terms of sweep, self-assurance and aspiration.
But at a time when Europe is beset by tensions between east and west and battling to overcome nearly a decade of draining economic crisis, Macron's earnest and at times high-brow discourse ran the risk of falling on deaf ears.
Speaking at the Sorbonne, he portrayed Europe as needing to relaunch itself, saying that on issues as diverse as asylum, border protection, corporate tax, intelligence sharing, defense and financial stability it needed much deeper cooperation.
"The only path that assures our future is the rebuilding of a Europe that is sovereign, united and democratic," the former investment banker and philosophy student said, flanked by a French and a European Union flag.
"At the beginning of the next decade, Europe must have a joint intervention force, a common defense budget and a joint doctrine for action."
In his run for the presidency, Macron made European reform a main plank of his centrist campaign, and he and Merkel have spoken frequently about their desire for France and Germany, the European Union's two largest economies and often its engines of change, to take the lead on integration.
But five months into his five-year term, Macron faces the threat that Merkel, 63 and looking to start her fourth term, has less capacity to move than either would have hoped.
Her CDU/CSU alliance is still the largest bloc in the Bundestag, but to build a working majority she will likely have to form a coalition with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), who are opposed to many of Macron's ideas.
Rather than tailoring his speech to fit the contours of what the FDP, the Greens or Merkel may have wanted to hear, Macron kept his vision broad and far-reaching, while also detailing some specific ideas for an improved euro zone.
"A budget can only go hand-in-hand with strong political leadership led by a common (finance) minister and a strong parliamentary supervision at the European level," he said, emphasizing the need for democratic accountability.
The fiscally conservative FDP dislikes the idea of a euro-zone budget or any facility that may lead to financial transfers from wealthier euro-zone countries to poorer ones, as well as the possibility of national debt being pooled.
The party has also called for phasing out Europe's ESM bailout fund, which Macron wants to turn into a European Monetary Fund, and wants to see changes to EU treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone.
"You don't strengthen Europe with new pots of money," Alexander Lambsdorff, an FDP member in the European Parliament, said on Twitter in reaction to Macron's speech.
In a statement issued by the FDP in Berlin, Lambsdorff said: "The problem in Europe is not a lack of public funds, but the lack of reform.
A euro zone budget would set exactly the wrong incentives."
Not shying away from addressing Germany directly even as it tries to resolve the fallout from Sunday's election, Macron set an objective that the two countries completely integrate their markets and corporate rules by 2024.
"We share the same European ambitions and I know her commitment to Europe," he said of Merkel.
"I'm proposing to Germany a new partnership.
We will not agree on everything, not immediately, but we will discuss everything."
In Berlin on Monday, Merkel said it was important to move beyond catchphrases and provide detail on how Europe could be improved.
It was not immediately clear whether Macron had managed to go beyond slogans as far as Merkel was concerned.
But Martin Selmayr, the chief of staff of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, said the proposals to reinforce the euro zone would be discussed alongside Juncker's own at a euro zone summit planned for December.
Italy's EU affairs minister, Sandro Gozi, said the speech would inspire European leaders into action.
"An excellent speech by Emmanuel Macron on reviving the European Union.
Lets work on this together, starting tomorrow at the Lyon Summit," he said, referring to a meeting of the Italian and French leaders to discuss industrial policy.
Macron said he hoped his ideas would be taken into account in Germany's coalition building negotiations.
Those talks are not expected to begin until mid-October and may take several months.
"Some had said I should wait for the coalition talks to be concluded," Macron said, adding had he done so, the reaction in Berlin would have been: "Your proposals are great but it's too late, the coalition deal already lays out what will we do on Europe for the next four years."
"What [the Kurds] are bracing for is either more bluster or some short-term punitive measures."
Following the referendum, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened to shut down a pipeline that transports about 500,000 barrels of oil per day from Iraqi Kurdistan to Ceyhan, Turkey.
That daily volume is just shy of the total supply reductions that a group of oil exporters led by Russia made this year in order to help OPEC drain a global crude glut.
"The saber-rattling from Erdogan really spooked the market," said John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital.
"This is the first time we've seen oil threatened as a diplomatic weapon for a while."
Brent crude prices surged 3 percent on Monday as Kurds went to the polls, hitting a 26-month high of $59.49 early on Tuesday.
U.S. crude topped out at a five-month peak of $52.43.
Prices fell on Tuesday as traders took profits and concern around the referendum eased, Kilduff said.
The region is likely to see a cycle of escalation before tensions ease, said Ayham Kamel, head of Middle East and North Africa practice at Eurasia Group, a risk consultancy.
Iraq oil infrastructure.
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration

The Iraqi government has asked oil traders to stop dealing with the Kurds directly and ruled out talks on a Kurdish exit.
Iran closed its border and halted flights to the Kurdish region, and Turkey is threatening sanctions.
Still, all parties are wary of stoking economic crisis and ethnic violence, Kamel said.
"The most likely outcome is not going to be a permanent shutdown of the Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline because that would completely shut down the Kurdish economy and undermine the stability of the region, which is not a primary target of either Baghdad, Ankara or even Tehran," he said.
Iraqi Kurdistan has built positive, bilateral relations with its neighbors, so severe economic sanctions would hurt all sides, said Bilal Wahab, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Kurdish oil generates the revenue that Kurds use to buy food from Iran and Turkey, pay Turkish construction firms to develop its cities and fund trips to Istanbul by Kurdish tourists, Wahab notes.
The Anglo-Turkish oil company Genel Energy is one of the biggest players in Iraqi Kurdistan.
"What [the Kurds] are bracing for is either more bluster or some short-term punitive measures," Wahab said.
The Treasury Department on Tuesday ratcheted up the pressure on North Korea by putting sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation in its effort to cut off financial support for Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs.
The measure targets eight North Korean banks and 26 people "linked to North Korean financial networks," the Treasury said.
The individuals  North Korean nationals  represent the country's banks and work in China, Russia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates, the department said.
"This further advances our strategy to fully isolate North Korea in order to achieve our broader objectives of a peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.
"This action is also consistent with UN Security Council Resolutions."
The action comes as the international community has tried to use economic pressure to push the communist dictatorship to end its nuclear ambitions.
In two recent unanimous votes, the United Nations Security Council put new sanctions on Pyongyang.
The Treasury described one package approved this month as "the strongest sanctions ever imposed on North Korea."
In a news conference with Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, on Tuesday, Trump kept up the heated rhetoric.
The president said, "If we have to take" the military option in North Korea, "we will."
Trump added that it would prove "devastating" for Pyongyang.
Tuesday's sanctions block the individuals' property or interests within the United States.
They follow President Donald Trump's Thursday executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
So far, economic measures have not deterred Pyongyang from a string of missile tests and an apparent hydrogen bomb test.
Trump and the North Korean regime have exchanged fiery rhetoric in recent days as tensions escalate.
North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused Trump of declaring war, saying that gives Pyongyang the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Ri Yong Ho referred to a Saturday Trump tweet in which he said the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, whom Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
James Dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner, said his company was building a "radical" all-electric car for launch in 2020, with a commitment to spend 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) on solid-state battery technology and vehicle design.
Dyson said a 400-strong team of engineers had already spent two and a half years working on the secret project in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, developing the batteries that will power the in-house designed electric motor for the car.
He said on Tuesday he had not yet decided where the vehicle would be manufactured, although he had ruled out working with any existing auto companies.
Ari Lewis was a high school student in Long Island, New York, when he bought his first bitcoin in 2012.
It cost less than $10, he recalls.
This May, as the price of a single bitcoin climbed towards $2,000, Mr Lewis graduated from Ohio's Case Western Reserve University with a business management degree and a new job: co-founder of a small cryptocurrency investment fund called Grasshopper Capital.
Eight wealthy people invested a total of $2.2m, lured by the soaring value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
Earlier this month, Mr Lewis was claiming a 90 per cent return between August and the start of September because of extreme short-term volatility.
Since then bitcoin has dropped 15 per cent.
He said he could not discuss his current returns but reiterated: "We are long-term investors."
According to Mr Lewis, there was not much competition six months ago.
"Now .
it seems like everyone and their mother are starting a fund."
Many of the new cryptocurrency funds that have sprung up call themselves hedge funds, but few have the infrastructure or level of experience to qualify as such, neither have they attracted many sophisticated institutional investors or shown signs they are doing much to hedge their long positions.
UK research outfit Autonomous NEXT has counted 68 crypto hedge funds.
Their strategies range from investing in "initial coin offerings"  which raise money by selling investors digital tokens in exchange for cryptocurrencies  to holding bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, such as Ethereum and Litecoin.
According to a quarter of the 200 global fund managers surveyed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently, bitcoin is also the world's most crowded trade, leaving many vulnerable to a switch in the market.
Vtor Constncio, vice-president of the European Central Bank, last Friday called bitcoin "an instrument of speculation" and said its sharp rise in value was akin to the 17th-century tulip craze.
Yet despite the uncertainty, new fund managers have piled in.
"I feel like we're in those Wells Fargo wagons travelling west," said Zach Hamilton, an early investor in cryptocurrency Ripple.
Mr Hamilton opened a long-only hedge fund, General Crypto, to outside money in early 2017.
He declined to disclose assets under management, but said the fund was targeting $25m.
Mr Hamilton said he and his California-based partner invest based on the companies behind the cryptocurrencies.
"We're trying to strip away all of the speculative value," he said.
"I love crashes.
That's great for me."
Some funds report returns that any hedge fund manager would dream of.
Altana Capital's Digital Currency Fund was up about 413 per cent this year to the end of August.
In comparison, hedge funds of all strategies have returned about 5.5 per cent in the year to the end of August, according to the data provider eVestment.
At the same time, some regulators now have their eye on whether the spiralling value of cryptocurrencies is entering bubble territory.
There is also the question of whether swings in these volatile markets leave poorly hedged funds at risk.
China has already banned ICOs and its biggest bitcoin exchanges are closing.
UK regulators have raised a warning flag and earlier this month Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, called bitcoin "a fraud".
A few cryptocurrency funds have been backed by institutional investors, lending some credibility to the sector.
Polychain Capital, which invests in cryptocurrencies and ICOs, has a $250m hedge fund, according to founder and chief executive Olaf Carlson-Wee.
Some of Silicon Valley's best known venture capitalists, including Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia, have invested.
Other Silicon Valley names include Meta Stable, a hedge fund originally opened in 2014 and worth $60m in gross assets, according to regulatory filings.
It was co-founded by Naval Ravikant, chief executive of start-up website AngelList.
Pantera Capital, an institutional bitcoin investor, set out to raise $100m for an ICO hedge fund earlier this year.
Some of the smaller funds that have emerged cater to family offices and wealthy individuals, and are geographically diverse.
Solidus Capital, a crypto hedge fund that holds funds offshore and currently has its headquarters in Mexico City, opened to family offices and high net-worth individuals from the Latin America region in May.
It holds six types of cryptocurrency with third-party custodians, but also does some limited margin trading during major macroeconomic events, and plans to offer a vehicle for ICO investment.
Carlos Mosquera Benatuil, a Solidus general partner originally from Venezuela, declined to disclose assets under management, but did say that the passive strategy offered to outside investors had returned some 25 per cent to date.
The founders of BitSpread, a London-based fund with offices in Singapore and San Francisco that runs a market-neutral, arbitrage strategy in bitcoin, began trading their own money in 2014.
It returned about 200 per cent over three years, according to chief executive Cedric Jeanson.
Since opening to outside capital on May 9 this year, BitSpread manages about $20m and is up 27 per cent to the end of August, it said.
The fund intends to expand from 15 to 25 staff by December, according to Mr Jeanson.
But some of the biggest names in hedge funds remain unconvinced, from Ray Dalio, founder of the world's biggest hedge fund Bridgewater, to legendary hedge fund manager Julian Robertson.
Of bitcoin, Mr Robertson said: "I've never understood it and I don't think I'm going to."
More from the Financial Times:

Donald Trump to host Thailand's PM in Washington

Coffee sustainability: the journey from bean to barista laid bare

Bitcoin is like Tulipmania, says ECB vice-president
During the past few months, many clients have asked how we feel about the market risk related to the launch of missiles by North Korea.
This question and similar ones about geopolitics have become more common than at any time since the financial crisis.
Therefore, it seems useful to articulate our approach to the risk embedded in macro and geopolitical incidents.
While the number of major economic, geopolitical, or environmental events that occur today of the scale which rattle world markets may not be greater than the past, one factor is definitely true: we are more geo-centric as a society.
The dissemination of information on each phenomenon, whether it's a coup, earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, currency collapse or deadly virus, is both immediate and ubiquitous thanks to the internet and social media.
Disturbing images of world events capture much more of our consciousness today, since they are virtually unavoidable.
While it would seem obvious that this "mind-share grab" alone would affect trading patterns, sentiment and confidence, we, amazingly, have not seen an overall increase in downward moves following disastrous or alarming situations.
One way to think about the stock market is as an open forum of thousands of buyers and sellers who collectively set the price for each stock as the present value of the stream of expected future earnings.
This process incorporates all the risks that these multitudes of traders perceive.
After 9/11 some investors believed that the market began to embed a new "terrorism" discount to all financial assets, due to this previously unrecognized risk.
Since 2001, we have witnessed a steady stream of both terrorist attacks and natural disasters (earthquakes, tsunamis and hurricanes) across the globe.
If the market adjusts to each new reality, it is reasonable to assume that its discounting methodology now includes a broader range of external dangers.
If we look at some cases of the market response to "crises" over the past several years, one sees how the selloffs are followed by returns to prior levels.
As an example, following the two recent missile launches by North Korea, the S&P 500 dropped only 2 percent, and recovered almost immediately.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said China needed to "guarantee fair and reciprocal treatment for U.S. firms" as he tried to strike an upbeat tone on a visit to Beijing amid trade tensions between the two countries.
Ross told Premier Li Keqiang on Monday that the United States hoped for "very good deliverables" when U.S. President Donald Trump visits China, likely in November.
In a statement on Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that Ross had also pressed China on the "need to rebalance bilateral trade and investment relations" and urged it to take "meaningful action" on trade issues.
"Secretary Ross once again continued to stress the need for concrete action to address the concerns of U.S. businesses, and that the U.S. would take action to defend American workers and businesses if cooperative efforts bear no fruit," the department said.
China committed to further market opening and welcomed participation by U.S. firms, with both sides supporting talks to resolve trade frictions, it said.
Ross met with senior Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Wang Yang, who handles an annual U.S.-China economic dialogue, and He Lifeng, the head of China's state planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
His remarks came as the World Trade Organization published a U.S. document showing the United States had asked China not to implement its new cyber security law, over concern it could damage global trade in services.
Speaking later in Hong Kong, Ross said the tone was "pretty good" between the U.S. and China ahead of Trump's visit, but "a lot of negotiating" still had to take place before then.
China's relationship with the United States has been strained by the Trump administration's criticism of China's trade practices and by demands that Beijing do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programmes.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Trump met for the first time in person at Trump's Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida in April.
Trump has since played up his personal relationship with Xi, even as he kept up his criticism of China over North Korea and trade.
The two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting, including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of American beef sales in China.
But U.S. business groups have expressed disappointment that the talks have not yielded more progress in getting China to loosen restrictions on foreign investment in many sectors.
"If the kind of trade relations China and the United States have are only beneficial to the Chinese side, then U.S. companies would not continue to do so much business in China," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told a regular press briefing.
Ross's trip to China to "prepare the ground" for Trump's visit comes after the U.S. administration earlier this month blocked a Chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a U.S.-based chipmaker.
In August, Trump authorised an inquiry into China's alleged theft of intellectual property - the first direct trade measure by his administration against Beijing.
China has called that move "irresponsible".
Alphabet's Google unit later this week will make its shopping service a stand-alone business within Google's operations and require it to bid against other sites for ad placement at the top of search results, says a person familiar with the company's plans.
The company will make the change to try and satisfy European antitrust regulators and avoid further fines, said this person, who requested anonymity in exchange for details about the plan.
The plan was previously reported by Bloomberg.
The shopping unit would remain part of Google, but would not be integrated with the search business as it is today.
The way that shopping ads are displayed may also be slightly redesigned.
In June, EU regulators fined Google a record 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion), the largest doled out by Brussels for a monopoly abuse case, following a seven-year-long investigation.
Regulators claimed that the company abused its search market dominance to give its Google Shopping service an advantage over other retailers.
Google, which makes most of its money from advertising, has argued that the European Commission's theory "just doesn't fit the reality of how most people shop online."
"They reach merchant websites in many different ways: via general search engines, specialist search services, merchant platforms, social media sites, and online ads served by various companies," Kent Walker, Google's general counsel, said in a blog post.
Europe is continuing to investigate two other charges, including whether the Android mobile operating system is being used to promote other Google products at an unfair disadvantage to rivals.
CNBC's Karen Gilchrist and Reuters contributed to this report.
Lufthansa's supervisory board has approved plans by the airline to invest in up to 61 additional planes for its Eurowings budget arm, seeking to fill the gap left by insolvent German rival Air Berlin.
The investment in purchasing and leasing 41 A320 single aisle jets and 20 Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 planes will total around 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) and is partly dependent on a successful conclusion of talks to take over assets from Air Berlin, Lufthansa said on Tuesday.
Dubai is pushing for more foreign direct investment but the last thing it needs is more luxury, high-end hotels, according to the chief executive of the country's investment development agency.
Fahad Al Gergawi, chief executive of the Dubai Investment Development Agency (Dubai FDI), told CNBC Tuesday that the emirate wants more accessible, smaller and low-key accommodation in order to attract a wider range of tourists.
The city state is well known for hosting the world's most luxurious hotels, including the distinctly-shaped Burj Al Arab Jumeirah (Dubai's only seven-star hotel) along with the Jumeirah Beach hotels, the Four Seasons Resort Dubai, Raffles Dubai and Kempinski Hotel Mall of the Emirates, to name just a few.
Even fashion houses have got in on the act with famous brands hosting luxury hotels, including Palazzo Versace Dubai, Gucci Hotel and Armani Hotel Dubai.
Needless to say, Dubai's tourism industry is booming and accounts for around 20 percent of the emirate's gross domestic product (GDP), according to the Dubai FDI.
Its stock of hotel rooms rose by 5 percent in 2016 to cross the 100,000 mark; while the year also marked the opening of more luxury hotels, Dubai is crying out for average hotels that can cater for 'normal' families, according to Al Gergawi.
"We're looking at tourism to be upgraded from where it is now, from 104,000 rooms to 245,000 rooms and that will increase the flow of visitors," Al Gergawi told CNBC.
"Dubai ranked number five in terms of visitors' numbers at a city level globally, so there is room for development and focusing on families and three and four star hotels."
Calling Dubai a "tourism hub," Al Gergawi said the emirate wanted to attract more visitors, not only the "glitzy and glamorous but also families who will tend to stay longer."
"The three and four-star focus is to give variety but also to reduce costs and overheads on investors and market rates.
We have one of the highest occupation rates of almost 86 percent but we still think there is room to develop."
Asked whether there are too many high-end hotels, Al Gergawi said there had been "for a while, yes."
"Usually, you have the five-star hotels at the top of the pyramid but for a while we've had the pyramid upside down with a lot of five-star hotels.
We're not saying we're stopping five-star (hotels) but we want to focus on three and four-star hotels that appeal to more market segments and families."
The inability of the U.S administration to pass new tax cuts has delayed the next boom and bust cycle in the country, according to one economist, who is still predicting that the U.S. is ultimately headed for a recession.
Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told CNBC in March that he believed the U.S. was facing a downturn in the next two years as a result of excessive fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration.
On Tuesday, he revealed his view had now changed.
"First, like a lot of people, but I'll take it on myself, I got wrong the timing of the tax cuts.
I couldn't believe they would spend this long before getting to a budget with Congress, that they would waste all this time on non-proposals with health care," he told CNBC on Tuesday.
Posen, who served at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the mid-1990s, said stimulus is still on the way in the form of significant business tax cuts that will be unfunded, but will be a year later than he thought.
"That pushes back the date at which the Fed will have to raise (interest rates) a lot," he said.
Posen's prediction is that tax cuts and deregulation will lead to a boom-bust cycle as the Federal Reserve will tighten policy to stave off a credit boom.
Despite the administration's failure to pass much major legislation, as well as divisions in the Republican Party, Posen does believe tax cuts will be delivered as politicians will want a win ahead of the mid-term elections.
"They can't go into the mid-term elections, face constituents and have done nothing.
The failures in health care and everything else means they have to deliver and tax cuts are the most obvious thing," he said.
"Secondly, I've always been very cynical of Congress' so-called budget hawks on the budget.
The history of the U.S. basically since 1974, every time Congress passes a rule on itself to restrict the budget, it violates that rule within two to four years."
He says the idea that Tea Party Republicans and budget hawks won't allow tax cuts because they may bust the budget is "ridiculous" and predicts they will all agree on tax cuts in the end.
The U.K.'s first subsidy-free solar farm, a 45-acre facility made up of more than 30,000 solar panels, has opened.
The Clayhill solar farm, near Flitwick, Bedfordshire, is also home to five battery storage units and was officially opened Tuesday by Climate Change Minister Claire Perry.
Anesco, the energy provider that built the 10 megawatt site, said it would produce enough electricity for around 2,500 homes, saving 4,452 tons of carbon.
Downing Street said the farm is the first in the U.K. to be constructed and operated without government subsidy, after the price of solar panels had dropped by two-thirds since 2010.
"The cost of solar panels and batteries has fallen dramatically over the past few years, and this first subsidy-free development at Clayhill is a significant moment for clean energy in the U.K.," Perry said Tuesday.
"Solar panels already provide enough electricity to power 2.7 million homes, with 99 percent of that capacity installed since 2010."
Also Tuesday, the National Grid said that this summer was the "greenest ever," with nearly 52 percent of electricity generation met by low carbon sources.
This compares to roughly 35 percent four years ago.
Earlier this month, renewables in the U.K. received another boost when it was revealed that the cost of offshore wind had fallen substantially.
The U.K. government said that the cost of new offshore wind projects producing electricity from 2022-23 would, at 57.50 ($77.44) per megawatt hour, be 50 percent lower than the first auction in 2015.
The relationship between brands and their media suppliers has been in the spotlight since the start of the year when one of the world's largest advertisers attacked agencies for being untrustworthy.
Marc Pritchard, the chief marketing officer at Procter and Gamble, said the media supply chain was "murky at best and fraudulent at worst," in a speech given at a digital marketing conference, although he added that P&G was partly to blame for not scrutinizing agency contracts closely enough.
The problem is complex, ranging from how much online adverts are actually seen by anybody and the definition of digital ad measurement, to "hidden" rebates, where media agencies don't disclose or return savings to their advertiser clients.
It also includes marketers' concerns about their ads appearing on websites or next to unsavory content, including brands like HSBC, L'Oreal and U.K. retailer Marks and Spencer which pulled adverts from YouTube after some of them appeared next to extreme content back in March.
The latest twist in the tale came last week when Uber filed a lawsuit against mobile ad agency Fetch, claiming that the company billed it for fake clicks on its online ads.
Fetch has denied all allegations.
Now chief marketing officers (CMOs) will be aiming to take much more control of where their brands appear, according to industry expert Liz Miller, senior vice president of marketing for the CMO Council, a U.S. business network.
How much the iPhone 8 cost to make compared to what Apple sells them for 8 Hours Ago | 00:53

Apple's iPhone 8 Plus is one of the company's most expensive smartphones to make to date, but price hikes are likely to help maintain a healthy margin, according to analysis.
The bill of materials (BOM) cost for the 5.5-inch iPhone 8 Plus with 64 gigabyte memory came in at $288.08, IHS Markit revealed in a teardown of the device.
This was higher than the $277.66 cost of the iPhone 7 Plus.
But the price for the iPhone 8 Plus is $799, which is $30 higher than its predecessor.
Meanwhile, the bill of materials cost for the iPhone 8 is $247.51, which is nearly $10 more than the iPhone 7.
The iPhone 8 has a starting retail price of $699, which is $50 more than the iPhone 7 however.
"The higher total BOM cost for the iPhone 8 Plus can't be tied to a single area or feature.
The higher cost is the result of slower annual component cost erosion tied in with additional features," Andrew Rassweiler, senior director of cost benchmarking services for IHS Markit, said in a press release Monday.
New features such as wireless charging and Apple's own A11 Bionic chip added to the costs.
Apple has been successful in its history of maintaining very healthy margins while increasing the price of its flagships smartphones.
Even though it is the second-largest smartphone maker by market share, it rakes in the most profit out of all of the manufacturers.
The Cupertino giant reported a gross profit margin of 38.5 percent in the June quarter.
Analysts surveyed by Reuters expect that figure to be 37.9 percent in the September quarter.
"Our expectation is that Apple will absolutely maintain healthy margins.
Apple likes to create the best products and a good return on them," Ian Fogg, head of mobile at IHS Markit, told CNBC by phone Tuesday.
"What is remarkable about the iPhone is Apple has persuaded consumers to put more of their income towards their smartphone.
At the same time, Apple has maintained historically excellent margins."
IHS Markit has not yet done a teardown on the $999 iPhone X, but Fogg said that this will "definitely" be more expensive to produce than the iPhone 8 models.
This is because of an OLED screen and more advanced sensors that allow users to unlock the device with their face.
Shortly after taking office, Trump ordered to take down the Spanish-language version of the White House website.
Trump has also vowed to build a wall in the Mexican border  something that Spaniards seem to disapprove of.
Data collected from the Pew Research Center last July showed that Trump's approval ratings in Spain are quite low, and similar to those given to former President George W. Bush when he left office.
The latter had been seriously criticized for his foreign policy decisions, including the war in Iraq.
By contrast, Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, was very popular among Spaniards.
According to Powell, during their joint-press conference, Rajoy and Trump will likely promise to further coordinate the fight against terrorism and there's the possibility that Trump might comment on the situation in Catalonia.
The Spanish region aims to carry out an independence referendum Sunday, but the national government believes that this goes against the constitution and it is therefore illegal.
The issue is not new with Catalonia calling for a clear break from the rest of Spain since 2012.
"So far, Rajoy's strategy of fully relying on legal means to stop the vote seems to be working, with the Catalan police collaborating with national police forces in their actions against the referendum," Antonio Barroso, deputy director of research at Teneo Intelligence said in a note last week.
Large-cap technology shares including the FANG basket crushed the market this year and drove hedge fund performance.
But with the technology stalwarts faltering, what does that mean for the stock market?
"Some FANG stocks such as Amazon and Google/Alphabet have seen weakness before but usually it's been company-specific and not broad-based.
Typically, Facebook and Netflix have held firm.
Not today.
Something looks to have changed," Fred Hickey, editor of High Tech Strategist, wrote in an email Monday.
Facebook shares declined 4.5 percent on Monday, its worst day since November.
The drop followed the disclosure last week that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads.
Netflix shares fell 4.7 percent on Monday after a report that 21st Century Fox is adding more inventory to its FX+ streaming service.
Investors may be concerned that content owners are pulling more content from the streaming giant.
It's not just FANG  Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet.
Apple has lost approximately $50 billion in market value since the company announced its latest line of products on Sept. 12 as investors worry over the strength of the new iPhone models' "super cycle."
Hickey believes it is not just fundamental news driving the sector lower, but it could be a reaction to the Federal Reserve's announcement Wednesday to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
"When the QEs were announced by the Fed, stocks jumped across the board before the actual buying occurred.
We may be seeing the reverse happen following Wednesday's Fed meeting when they announced QT [quantitative tapering]," he wrote.
So what does a falling technology sector mean for the S&P 500?
Using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, we looked at what happens to the market during periods when the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK) fell 5 percent or more in one month since the beginning of the bull market.
Since March 2009, a weak month for the technology sector is generally bad news for the market, according to Kensho.
The study found the S&P 500 declined 17 times out of 18 instances the fund fell 5 percent or more in one month.
Bottom line: When tech stocks are falling, it's been nearly impossible during this bull market for the S&P 500 to post a gain without them participating.
Technology shares, along with industrial and consumer discretionary stocks, share the highest correlation with the market.
Despite the recent declines, the FANG stocks are still doing well on a year-to-date basis with Facebook up 42 percent, Amazon up 25 percent, Netflix up 44 percent and Alphabet up 18 percent through Monday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
However, the big tech gains may be a sign of earlier excessive risk-taking by investors, which could mean a large reversal when the tide turns.
Ataribox  the latest console from gaming pioneer Atari  will likely hit stores next year.
The console will be powered by an AMD-customized processor and run on operating system Linux.
In an announcement Tuesday, the Ataribox team said it would seek to raise funds for the console on crowd-funding platform Indiegogo "this fall (read: pretty soon)."
"We want you to have early access, grab special editions (and pricing) and to have you as active partners in the rollout of Ataribox," the team said.
Atari's newest console is a modern take on the popular late 1970s console, the Atari 2600.
Ataribox claims it will bring a "full PC experience for the TV," and deliver home-focused features such as video streaming, social media, web browsing and music.
The brand has developed some of the most well-known household names in arcade gaming, like Pong.
A conflict on the Korean peninsula would have "catastrophic consequences", and Russia's foreign ministry is working "behind the scenes" on finding a political solution to the North Korea crisis, the RIA news agency cited a senior Russian diplomat as saying on Tuesday.
Cited by RIA, Mikhail Ulyanov, the head of the non-proliferation and arms controls department at Russia's foreign ministry, also said the U.S. approach to North Korea was a dead end and the tool of sanctions against the North had almost been exhausted.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserves the right to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. strategic bombers even if they are not in the country's air space.
Mexican government officials are still tallying up the economic losses of the magnitude 7.1 earthquake that caused widespread damage in the capital, but for the manager of a downtown restaurant it is already all too clear.
Sitting in the entrance of his Guapa Papa restaurant Monday surrounded in caution tape, Antonio Luna said: "This is a bust.
It's already closed due to structural damage to the building."
He had to let go the three dozen employees at the 1950s-themed restaurant and is just trying to salvage whatever furniture and equipment wasn't damaged.
"In the end the company let everyone go because it couldn't continue having expenses," Luna said.
Moody's Investors Service said in a report Monday that the September 19 earthquake that has killed at least 326 people in the capital and nearby states "has the potential to be one of Mexico's costliest natural catastrophes."
Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director for Moody's Analytics, said they were still collecting data on losses, but a preliminary estimate was that the earthquake could knock between 0.1 percent and 0.3 percent off Mexico's gross domestic product in the third and fourth quarters.
For the full year, the impact on gross domestic product should be about 0.1 percent.
"The impact on the year's growth will be small, particularly considering that the reconstruction work will compensate for some of the total loss in activity during the fourth quarter," Coutino said.
Money is expected to pour into the economy as Mexico City and the federal government tap their disaster funds.
As of June, the city's disaster fund stood at 9.4 billion pesos (more than $500 million), making it slightly larger than the national fund, according to a Moody's Investors Services report.
Of course, the national fund also has to deal with recovery from the even stronger September 7 quake that has been blamed for nearly 100 deaths, mostly in the southern states of Oaxaca and Chiapas.
There will be months of work ahead from demolition to repairs and reconstruction.
Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera said that 360 "red level" buildings would either have to be demolished or receive major structural reinforcement.
An additional 1,136 are reparable, and 8,030 buildings inspected so far were found to be habitable.
At least 38 buildings, including apartments and office buildings, collapsed during the earthquake.
Mexico's education ministry also has 1.8 million pesos to spend on school repairs.
In Mexico City alone, only 676 of the city's 9,000 schools had been inspected and cleared to resume classes, Education Secretary Aurelio Nuno said Monday.
AIR Worldwide, a Boston-based catastrophe modeling consultant, provided a wide range for industry-insured losses, but noted they would be only a small part of the total economic losses.
It put the insured losses at between 13 billion pesos ($725 million) and 36.7 billion pesos ($2 billion).
A graceful traffic roundabout encircled by restaurants, cafes and shops is now a sprawling expanse of medical tents, piles of food and other relief supplies, and stacks of building materials.
While relief work went on outside Monday, men were busily wrapping furniture in foam and plastic inside the Antiguo Arte Europeo store.
Stone panels on the building's facade appeared cracked or were altogether missing.
Saleswoman Luisa Zuniga said the owners were waiting for civil defense inspectors to certify there was no structural damage to the building before reopening to the public.
Meanwhile, they were moving furniture that could still be sold to their other branches.
"Then we'll see how long it takes to fix everything," she said.
"It is important to get back to work."
Edgar Novoa, a fitness trainer, went back to his job Monday after working as a volunteer following the earthquake.
Around midday, he stopped his bicycle at a cleared foundation where a building of several stories had stood near his home.
He knelt and prayed while others left flowers and candles at the site.
A diamond weighing 1,109 carats  the largest found since 1905  has sold for $53 million.
The Lesedi La Rona, which means "Our Light" in the Twsana language, was found in a Botswana mine in November 2015.
It is the third biggest diamond ever found, and the second largest of gem quality.
Diamond miner Lucara announced it had sold the Lesedi La Rona to Graff Diamonds on Monday for $53 million, or $47,777 per carat.
"The discovery of the Lesedi La Rona was a company defining event for Lucara.
It solidified the amazing potential and rareness of the diamonds recovered at the Karowe mine," William Lamb, president and CEO of Lucara, said in a press release.
"The price paid is also an improvement on the highest bid received at the Sotheby's auction in June 2016."
Lucara tried to sell the diamond at auction last year, but none of the bids met its undisclosed minimum reserve price, according to Reuters.
Laurence Graff, founder of jewel supplier Graff Diamonds, said his company was "thrilled and honored" to own the diamond.
"The stone will tell us its story, it will dictate how it wants to be cut, and we will take the utmost care to respect its exceptional properties," he said in a press release.
"I am privileged to be given the opportunity to honor the magnificent natural beauty of the Lesedi La Rona."
A subsidiary of U.S. utility the Ameren Corporation has laid out plans to add "at least" 700 megawatts of wind generation by the year 2020.
In an announcement on Monday, Ameren Missouri said the scheme would be backed by an investment of around $1 billion and that it would also look to add 100 megawatts of solar generation over the next 10 years.
"This is Ameren Missouri's largest-ever commitment to clean, renewable energy," Michael Moehn, Ameren Missouri's president, said in a statement.
"We are committed to bringing our customers innovative solutions that are both cost-effective and environmentally responsible while maintaining the reliability our customers expect," Moehn added.
Ameren Missouri said that the new wind production was expected to be based in Missouri and neighboring states, using "American-made" turbines.
The location, source and cost of the new generation was still under negotiation with developers, it added.
"We expect this tremendous growth in wind generation to provide great value to our customers, who will save money on energy costs," Moehn added.
The business also said it was setting itself the goal of slashing its carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050, compared to 2005 levels.
Moehn said that Ameren Missouri was the first investor owned utility in the state  and one of the first in the country  to "announce a carbon emissions goal of this magnitude."
Breaking this goal down further, the company said it was targeting a 35 percent reduction by 2030 and a 50 percent cut by 2040.
A future cup of coffee in California could give you jitters before you even take a sip.
A nonprofit group wants coffee manufacturers, distributors and retailers to post ominous warnings about a cancer-causing chemical stewing in every brew and has been presenting evidence in a Los Angeles courtroom to make its case.
The long-running lawsuit that resumed Monday claims Starbucks and about 90 other companies, including grocery stores and retail shops, failed to follow a state law requiring warning signs about hazardous chemicals found everywhere from household products to workplaces to the environment.
At the center of the dispute is acrylamide, a carcinogen found in cooked foods such as French fries that is also a natural byproduct of the coffee roasting process.
The coffee industry has acknowledged the presence of the chemical but asserts it is at harmless levels and is outweighed by benefits from drinking coffee.
Although the case has been percolating in the courts since 2010, it has gotten little attention.
A verdict in favor of the little-known Council for Education and Research on Toxics could send a jolt through the industry with astronomical penalties possible and it could wake up a lot of consumers, though it's unclear what effect it would have on coffee-drinking habits.
The lawyer taking on Big Coffee said the larger goal is to motivate the industry to remove the chemical from coffee, which would also benefit his own three-cup-a-day fix.
"I'm addicted  like two-thirds of the population," attorney Raphael Metzger said.
"I would like the industry to get acrylamide out of the coffee so my addiction doesn't force me to ingest it."
Under the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, passed by voters as Proposition 65 in 1986, private citizens, advocacy groups and attorneys can sue on behalf of the state and collect a portion of civil penalties.
Metzger represented the council in a case later taken up by the state attorney general that resulted in potato chip makers agreeing in 2008 to pay $3 million and remove acrylamide from their product.
The law has been roundly criticized for abuses by lawyers shaking down businesses for quick settlements but is also credited with reducing chemicals known to cause cancer and birth defects, such as lead in hair dyes, mercury in nasal sprays and arsenic in bottled water.
But warnings, which can be startling on first encounter, have been less effective due to sometimes inconspicuous placement or vague language.
Drivers everywhere appear to prioritize parking in a garage over warnings such as, "This area contains chemicals known to the state of California to cause cancer, birth defects and other reproductive harm."
The state Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment adopted new regulations last year that will require more specific warnings that list the chemical consumers may be exposed to and list a website with more information.
Parking garages, for example, will have to post that breathing air there exposes drivers to carbon monoxide and gas and diesel exhaust and warns people not to linger longer than necessary.
"The intent is not to scare people," said Allan Hirsch, chief deputy of the office.
"The intention is to help people make more informed decisions.
If you continue to buy a product that will expose you to a chemical, that's OK as long as you're informed."
