Moulds to manufacture ten French francs coins are displayed at the Museum of the Monnaie de Paris (Paris Mint), ahead of its reopening in Paris, France, September 21, 2017.
Picture taken September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer

PARIS (Reuters) - After more than a thousand years of service, the Paris mint has thrown its doors open to the public with a vast exhibition of treasures, collectors coins and a view of the craftsmen in their workshops.
On the banks of the River Seine, workers chisel, press and engrave medals and memorabilia in the factory that advertises itself as the oldest in the French capital, with a history stretching back to the year 864.
Since the introduction of the euro in 2002, the mint - or the Monnaie de Paris - has passed industrial-scale production of everyday coinage to a plant in the southwestern town of Pessac.
Its workforce, about 150-strong, is now counting on collectors, the curious and tourists to give it a longer lease of life.
Here we mint coins which still have a value, the mints chief executive, Aurelien Rousseau, said.
But it is indeed more often collectors who are interested in these products.
Displays include ancient treasure chests, a coin dating back more than 2,000 years and the platinum meter measure that remains the international reference of the metric system.
Former U.S. president Bill Clinton attends a pontifical requiem mass for late former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in the cathedral in Speyer, Germany, July 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Arne Dedert/Pool

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Former U.S. President Bill Clintons debut novel will not hit shelves for almost a year, but it is already getting the TV treatment as Showtime said Friday that it would adapt the anticipated book into a series.
Clintons The President Is Missing, co-authored with prolific thriller writer James Patterson, will follow the sudden disappearance of a sitting U.S. president and will draw on Clintons knowledge of holding the office.
It is due to be published in June 2018 and is the first time a U.S. president has co-authored a thriller.
Im really enjoying writing this book and working with Jim, Clinton said in a statement.
And I cant wait to see Showtime bring the characters to life.
Showtime, the premium cable network owned by CBS Corp, did not give any details on casting or when the series might air.
The series is yet another high-profile addition to the growing landscape of television, which has drawn Oscar-winning film talent to create and star in shows.
Showtime President and CEO David Nevins said getting the television rights to the book was a coup in the highest order.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - Christies sold nearly $15 million worth of art at its autumn auction in Shanghai on Sunday, with a painting by abstract master Zao Wou-ki fetching more than $5 million.
The combined 98.5 million yuan ($14.8 million) sale was 35 percent higher than the previous year, the company said.
Zaos 24.12.2002  Diptyque sold for 33.6 million yuan, the most expensive work of art to be sold in Christies Shanghai.
The highest price for a Western work of art was 13.2 million yuan for Salvador Dalis sculpture Elephant du triomphe.
We have presented both young and established artists to an international audience and witnessed strong buying from Chinese and international clients, said Charlotte Liu, Managing Director of Christies China.
FILE PHOTO: United States Attorney Carmen Ortiz speaks during a press conference at the FBI's Boston Field Office held to appeal to the public for help in returning artwork stolen in 1990 from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. on March 18, 2013.
REUTERS/Jessica Rinaldi/File Photo

BOSTON (Reuters) - An octogenerian alleged mobster who police believe may be able to help solve the largest art heist in U.S. history will undergo a psychiatric evaluation before being sentenced on gun charges, a federal court judge in Connecticut ruled on Friday.
The decision came after Robert Gentile, 81, appeared in court earlier this month for sentencing on charges he pleaded guilty to in April, but claimed to have no memory of entering a plea or of the events involved.
The defendants counsel has become increasingly concerned about the defendants ability to understand the charges against him and assist in his defense, defense attorney Ryan McGuigan wrote in a motion asking for the competency hearing.
Counsel has also observed that the defendant has been getting dates and facts significantly confused.
U.S. District Judge Robert Chatigny granted the request without comment on Friday.
FILE PHOTO: The empty frame of Rembrandt's oil painting "A Lady and Gentleman in Black" lies on the floor and a space on the wall (left) remains bare where the "The Storm on the Sea of Galilee" once hung in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. on March 21, 1990.
Reuters/Jim Bourg/File Photo

Gentile in April had pleaded guilty to charges of illegally selling guns to a felon.
His attorney said the charges resulted from a sting operation aimed at pressuring him into providing details on 13 pieces of art stolen in one of the longest unsolved high-profile crimes in Bostons history.
Some $500 million worth of art, including Rembrandts Storm on the Sea of Galilee and Vermeers The Concert, was stolen from Bostons Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in March 1990.
Gentile has repeatedly denied knowing the whereabouts of any of the art.
During a polygraph test performed amid the Gardner probe, Gentile had an intense reaction when he was shown images of the missing paintings, while he remained calm when shown unrelated artwork, according to a law enforcement source briefed on the test.
The Gardner heist was carried out by two men dressed in police uniforms who apparently overpowered a night security guard who had buzzed them in.
FILE PHOTO: People shelter under umbrellas as the pass the National Gallery on a rainy day in London, Britain January 02, 2016.
REUTERS/Neil Hall

NEW YORK (Reuters) - The National Gallery in London on Thursday won the dismissal of a lawsuit in which three grandchildren of a muse of the artist Henri Matisse sought to recover a painting they said was stolen shortly after World War Two.
U.S. District Judge Valerie Caproni in Manhattan said the museum and Great Britain were shielded by sovereign immunity, and the grandchildren waited too long to sue for the return of Portrait of Greta Moll.
Oliver Williams and Margarete Green, both of Great Britain, and Iris Filmer, of Germany, had accused the National Gallery of ignoring signs that the 1908 painting might have been stolen, and should not profit from war-related theft.
David Rowland, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to comment, saying he had yet to review the decision.
Margarete Moll, known as Greta, sat for 10 three-hour sessions for the painting, which Matisse reworked after seeing a work in Paris by the Italian Renaissance artist Paolo Veronese.
Molls husband Oskar bought the painting, which was later taken to Germany.
It survived the war, but following Oskars death in 1947, Greta Moll left it with one of his former art students for safekeeping from looters in Switzerland.
According to the grandchildren, the student absconded with the painting, which then passed through several hands, including the Knoedler gallery in Manhattan and Lefevre gallery in London, before the National Gallery bought it in 1979.
In a 28-page decision, Caproni said the federal Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act did not require the return of the painting.
She noted that a private individual had allegedly stolen it, and said it did not matter that the painting had been displayed and merchandise depicting it had been sold in New York.
Caproni also said the grandchildren inexcusably delayed their lawsuit, noting that many people familiar with the paintings history were likely dead, or if living likely suffer from faded memories.
Plaintiffs have known for decades that the National Gallery possessed the painting, and yet took no steps to recover the painting until plaintiffs counsel began corresponding with the National Gallery in 2011, the judge wrote.
Sarah Andre, a lawyer for the museum, said in an interview: We are very pleased with the opinion.
We are particularly pleased with the district courts recognition that this case does not involve a taking in violation of international law.
The case is Williams et al v. National Gallery of Art, London et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No.
16-06978.
Chinese artist and free-speech advocate Ai Weiwei signs his book ahead of an exhibition titled "Ai Weiwei: By the way, it's always the others" at the Musee Cantonal des Beaux Arts in Lausanne, Switzerland September 20 2017.
REUTERS/Pierre Albouy

LAUSANNE, Switzerland (Reuters) - Ai Wei-Wei denounced Chinas crackdown on lawyers and free speech on Wednesday but saw little hope that the upcoming Communist Party Congress would lead to more freedoms.
The Chinese dissident artist spoke while inaugurating an exhibit in the Swiss city of Lausanne that includes some of his political works symbolizing repression.
They are not accepting what we call common values such as democracy and freedom of speech and the freedom of religious practice and independence of the press or independence of a judicial system or people having the right to vote, Ai told a news conference.
China has been booming and become very powerful in the economic sense but at the same time it doesnt trust its own people, he said.
After 60 or 70 years in power, still its own people are not trusted to have a chance to vote.
Asked about the five-yearly leadership reshuffle of the ruling Communist Party set to begin on Oct. 18, Ai said: You have a party that functions more like a family.
It doesnt matter how many meetings they have, its always closed-door.
So theres no trust remaining in society.
Human Rights Watch said on Wednesday that China has launched more rigorous investigations into rights lawyers and law firms that take on politically sensitive issues.
Ai, who lives in Berlin but returns to China regularly, voiced concern about two friends who are human rights lawyers ruthlessly put in jail for five and 10 years, respectively.
So the danger is there but I have no fear for myself because I have been through everything and what I have done is not for myself.
Its for my fathers generation and my sons generation, the 60-year-old said.
The exhibit entitled Its Always the Others, on view at the Cantonal Fine Arts Museum in Lausanne until Jan. 28, brings together 46 works made in wood, jade, porcelain, bamboo, and silk, along with photographs and videos.
Dragon in Progress, a 50-metre-long bamboo and silk kite hung from the ceiling, transforms a traditional symbol of Chinese imperial power with quotes from imprisoned or exiled activists including Nelson Mandela, Edward Snowden and Ai.
A marble sculpture, Surveillance Camera with Plinth, depicts a camera set up outside his Beijing studio.
Im a free man, that means I can go and come back.
Which is fine.
They kept their promise, they didnt touch me.
But of course when a state is not really ruled by law you can see that anything still can happen at any moment because its unpredictable, youre not protected by law.
People look as others photograph a mural painted by the artist Banksy near the Barbican Centre in London, Britain, September 18, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls

LONDON (Reuters) - Two murals by British street artist Banksy have appeared at Londons Barbican center to mark an exhibition of the work of Jean-Michel Basquiat, a U.S. artist who achieved fame through the New York graffiti scene.
One references Basquiats 1982 Boy and Dog in a Johnnypump, showing a boy being searched by police officers.
Portrait of Basquiat being welcomed by the Metropolitan Police - an (unofficial) collaboration with the new Basquiat show, Banksy said of the work on his official Instagram feed.
The second depicts people queuing up to ride a Ferris wheel with carriages shaped like crowns, referencing Basquiats 1983 Crown.
A mural painted by the artist Banksy is seen near the Barbican Centre in London, Britain, September 18, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls

The Barbican show Basquiat: Boom for Real, is the first large-scale exhibition in Britain of the work of the artist, who rose meteorically in 1980s New York and died aged 27 of a drugs overdose.
A 1982 Basquiat painting of a skull sold for $110.5 million in May.
Slideshow (5 Images)

Major new Basquiat show opens at the Barbican - a place that is normally very keen to clean any graffiti from its walls, Banksy said.
Banksy, whose keeps his identity secret, rose to prominence through street art in the English city of Bristol in the 1990s.
His works, often stenciled onto the outside walls of buildings, combine humor and social commentary.
People browse through books during the third annual book fair in Mogadishu, Somalia September 14, 2017.
Picture taken September 14, 2017.
REUTERS/Feisal Omar

MOGADISHU (Reuters) - Long associated with pirates, famine and bombs, Somalia showed a different face to the world this week as it welcomed foreign writers for the first time to its annual book fair.
The event took place for the third time in the scarred seaside capital Mogadishu, but until now security was too precarious for overseas authors to take part.
Their participation is a sign that things are changing as government troops, backed by African Union peacekeepers, claw back territory from Islamist insurgents in the Horn of Africa country.
Still, there were 60 guards on duty on Friday outside the hotel where the book fair was taking place, as well as plainclothes security inside.
In 2015, authors were afraid, but now security has improved, said organizer Mohamed Diini.
But authors are not yet brave (enough) to write or present books on the chaos of the country.
Somalia has been riven by civil war since 1991, when clan-based warlords overthrew a dictator and then turned on each other.
Although the Islamist al Shabaab militia was pushed out of the capital in 2011, it continues to mount almost daily bomb attacks and assassinations.
That didnt stop 31 authors, including a Rwandan, three Kenyans and a British doctoral student, from presenting their books, Diini said.
People browse through books during the third annual book fair in Mogadishu, Somalia September 14, 2017.
Picture taken September 14, 2017.
REUTERS/Feisal Omar

Fartumo Kusow, a Somali-Canadian fiction writer who holds dual nationality, made her first trip home in 27 years.
Its like the country has been hit by an earthquake.
No building is where it is meant to be, she said sadly.
The landscape by the sea is different.
Her novel, The Tale of a Boons Wife, tells a story that reverberates across cultures: a love affair forbidden by powerful clans.
It was published in Canada by Second Story Press, she said, but only after she had received 104 rejection slips.
People browse through books during the third annual book fair in Mogadishu, Somalia September 14, 2017.
Picture taken September 14, 2017.
REUTERS/Feisal Omar

Rwandan author Dominik Alonga said she came to the book fair out of solidarity - like Somalia, her tiny east African nation is also inextricably associated with past violence.
When you hear Rwanda, you think genocide.
So I write about culture to show the sympathetic and the good side of life, she said.
Abdirahman Ali Mohamed, 21, is an accountancy student from Mogadishu who works as a waiter between classes.
His book, A Country whose Citizens Migrate, tells the story of an ordinary life in a failed state.
I was born after central government collapsed and during a civil war.
So writing in my own mother tongue was a pain in the neck because I did not get a good teacher who could teach Somali literature, he said with a grin.
But I studied the literature of many foreign countries by myself...
I want Somalis to read my book so their life can be a little bit better and they can stay home.
BERLIN (Reuters) - A museum for graffiti and art for public spaces will open in Berlin on Saturday and designs by local and international street artists will be exhibited on the facade of its building to kick it off.
The Museum for Urban Contemporary Art, dubbed Artmeile or Art Mile, is located in a converted apartment building.
It has an asphalted floor and an open structure to make it feel like a street.
Urban contemporary art is the logical next step to follow what is happening on the street, said museum director Yasha Young.
This house can be an archive that tells the story (of street art) for the first time, from the beginning until now, she said, adding that the art properly belonged on the street.
Graffiti in Berlin is illegal unless the owner of the sprayed area gives permission.
Twenty years ago, the city allocated almost $5 million to erase graffiti and a lobby was set up to secure places for street artists to practise legally.
Its a nice thing that there is a museum happening because it means that the artists who have been a part of this scene and movement for a long time are now getting the respect that they deserve, said Louis Masai from London, who is one of 150 artists whose work will be exhibited.
PISA, Italy (Reuters) - YuMi the humanoid robot showed no signs of nerves on Tuesday night as it raised its baton to conduct the Lucca Philharmonic orchestra alongside Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli.
The two-armed robot, designed by Swiss firm ABB, made its debut at Pisas Verdi Theatre to mark the First International Festival of Robotics in the Tuscan city.
We basically had to find time to understand his movements.
When we found the way, everything was pretty easy, said the orchestras resident conductor, Andrea Colombini.
It is absolutely fantastic.
And the technicians were fantastic just to make everything perfect, especially in the length and in the speed of the gesture, which is very important, he said.
YuMi, whose name is derived from the phrase you and me, was taught all the movements by Colombini, who held its arms in rehearsals so the computer could memorize the correct gestures.
The robot is not able to improvise and any unexpected change in tempo from the musicians would have been ruinous.
The robot conducted three of the 18 pieces performed on Tuesday night, including the famous aria La Donna e Mobile, from Verdis opera Rigoletto.
Models parade in front of Milan's stock exchange at the end of the Salvatore Ferragamo Spring/Summer 2018 show at the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Alessandro Garofalo

MILAN (Reuters) - Models for Italian luxury group Salvatore Ferragamo strolled through a garden of daisies in the heart of Milan on Saturday evening to wrap up the citys fourth day of fashion week.
Fulvio Rigoni, director for Ferragamos womens ready to wear, showcased his spring summer 2018 collection on a lawn under the stars, set up for the occasion in front of Palazzo Mezzanotte, the stock exchange in Italys fashion capital.
No two women are the same and I wanted to celebrate womens individuality and style, vivid colours.., Rigoni said.
For this reason the collection included pieces with assorted textures, prints, shapes and attitudes, a style note said.
Rigoni said he was inspired by the famous women, like Greta Garbo, Brigitte Bardot and Marilyn Monroe, who had worn Ferragamos shoes in the past.
Long floaty dresses, asymmetrical skirts, flared trousers and pencil designs evoked different eras with designs in emerald green, deep purple and geranium pink.
Models wore snake skin patterns with matching vests or skirts under silk ruffled shirts, laser cut short cocktail coats over high boots, A-line dresses and panelled satin tops and dresses with plunging backlines.
The looks were matched with peep-toe sandals with golden chunky heels and capri sandals laced up with silk foulards and small leather bags with thin geometric bracelet-like handles.
In the finale, models, followed by Rigoni, walked away from the garden-turn-runway to the steps of the stock exchange, whose facade was used for a light show by German designer Ingo Maurer.
FILE PHOTO: Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Gala - Rei Kawakubo/Comme des Garcons: Art of the In-Between - Arrivals - New York City, U.S. - 01/05/17 - Kylie Jenner.
REUTERS/Carlo Allegri

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Kylie Jenner, the youngest member of the celebrity Kardashian family, was reported on Friday to be pregnant.
Celebrity news website TMZ, People magazine and Buzzfeed all quoted sources as saying that Jenner, 20, the half-sister of Kim Kardashian, is expecting a baby with her boyfriend, the rapper Travis Scott.
Jenners representatives could not be reached for comment.
Jenner, who has parlayed her familys reality TV show and a 97 million Instagram following into a lucrative cosmetics line, later posted a Snapchat photo in which she appeared to have a baby bump under an oversized black T-shirt.
People magazine, quoting unidentified sources, said the baby was due in February.
The family has known for quite some time.
She is really excited and so is Travis!
the magazine quoted one source as saying.
Another source said to be close to the family told People: It is an unexpected, but completely amazing turn of events that she could not be more excited or thrilled about.
Jenner and Scott, 25, have been dating since April.
Italian designer Angela Missoni acknowledges the applause at the end of Missoni Spring/Summer 2018 show at the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini

MILAN (Reuters) - Italian designer Angela Missoni celebrated 20 years at the creative helm of the family-owned knitwear brand with a party-inspired collection, declaring herself proud of having kept the brand relevant over the years.
I wanted to celebrate my twentieth anniversary given its a relevant moment for any designer, Missoni told reporters at the end of the show.
So I organized a party and dressed these young boys and girls as though they were going to one, she added.
Angela Missoni took over from her mother Rosita as creative director of the brand, known for its colorful geometric knit patterns, in 1997.
The group was founded by Angelas parents in 1953.
Missoni said she was very proud of having kept the brand relevant in the fashion industry despite all the changes and difficulties of the sector.
Italian designer Angela Missoni acknowledges the applause at the end of Missoni Spring/Summer 2018 show at the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini

There has certainly been a lot of work... you are never done and changes occur so fast that you are always moving and organizing (the company), Missoni said.
Colorful as usual, the designs of the collection included see-through dresses and skirts with matching bra tops, revealing bathing suits worn with short jackets and cardigans, pant suits and bright leggings with iridescent jumpers.
Slideshow (8 Images)

Missoni said that the focus was on lightweight knitwear which resembled chiffon and that many of the designs had light... so to shine at my party.
Models wore resin bracelets that recalled the fabrics patterns, big dangly geometric earrings and flowers made of fabric as decorations.
Many wore wide-brim sun hats.
Men wore colorful shorts or tapered trousers with tops that had motifs that recalled tie-dye t-shirts, with leather slip-ons on their feet.
Milan fashion week runs until Sept. 25, with collections by luxury group Salvatore Ferragamo, Italys Trussardi, young designer Stella Jean and world-famous fashion brand Dolce & Gabbana to be showcased in coming days.
Cast member Colin Firth arrives with his wife Livia Giuggioli for the world premiere of "Kingsman: The Golden Circle" in London, Britain September 18, 2017.
REUTERS/Eddie Keogh

ROME (Reuters) - British actor Colin Firth, who has often played the role of a quintessential Englishman in his many films, has become an Italian citizen, Italys Interior Ministry said.
The very famous actor, who won an Oscar for the film The Kings Speech, is married to a citizen from our country and has often declared his love for our land, the ministry said in a statement.
Firth said he would remain a dual national, adding that his Italian-born wife would also be seeking British nationality.
We never really thought much about our different passports, the actor said in a statement.
But now, with some of the uncertainty around, we thought it sensible that we should all get the same, he added, in an apparent reference to last years British vote to leave the European Union.
Firth has been married to Italian film producer Livia Giuggioli since 1997 and the couple live with their two sons in Britain.
Unlike some other EU countries, Italy and Britain both allow dual nationality.
My wife and I are both extremely proud of our own countries, Firth said.
A number of EU countries, including Germany, France and Ireland, have reported a surge in British citizens seeking a new nationality in the wake of the Brexit vote.
The Italian announcement came just hours after British Prime Minister Theresa May flew to Florence to make a keynote speech to try to revive stalled Brexit negotiations and reassure worried business leaders.
Russian film director Alexei Uchitel looks on during an interview at a studio in Moscow, Russia August 16, 2017.
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov

MOSCOW (Reuters) - A Russian court ordered the detention of a man on Saturday on suspicion of trying to intimidate cinemas into not showing a new film about the countrys last tsar, Russias news agencies said.
Police said earlier they had opened a criminal case following a series of arson attacks in protest over the film Matilda by award-winning director Alexei Uchitel.
The film tells the story of a love affair between the tsar, Nicholas II, and half-Polish ballerina Matilda Kshesinskaya, who described the relationship in her memoirs.
Interfax cited the courts spokeswoman as saying the man detained was Alexander Kalinin, leader of a radical religious group called Christian State - Holy Rus, on suspicion of pressuring the cinemas not to screen the movie.
The court ordered that he be held in custody until Nov. 22, without charge.
Christian State vowed to set cinemas on fire if they screened Matilda and a series of arson attacks connected with the film have been reported across the country.
Matilda is to be released internationally in late October despite protests from religious conservatives who are offended by what they regard as a disrespectful depiction of a man the Russian Orthodox Church regards as a martyr.
Some cinemas have said they will not be showing the film because of threats that they had received.
A criminal case has been opened in connection with the fact (the cinemas) were forced not to show the film under the threat of violence against the spectators and causing harm and damage to the cinemas owners, the police said in statement, not naming the film or those detained or charged.
The police opened the case in connection with the arson attacks related to Matilda, TASS news agency reported, citing a police source.
On Thursday police said they had detained four men, including Kalinin, in connection with an arson attack related to the film.
Three of the men had been charged with arson, including their alleged role in setting fire to two cars parked outside the office of Uchitels lawyer.
Other violent acts of protest against the film have included an arson attack on Uchitels studio and a man driving a car into the facade of a cinema.
FILE PHOTO: Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada, wears Chewbacca socks while participating in a panel discussion at a Bloomberg Global Business Forum panel event in New York, U.S. September 20, 2017 REUTERS/Stephen Yang/File Photo

OTTAWA (Reuters) - Justin Trudeaus choice in socks sparked a light-hearted Twitter competition between the stars of Star Wars and Star Trek after the Canadian Prime Minister sported Chewbacca hosiery during high-profile appearances in New York City this week.
Star Wars actor Mark Hamill applauded the appearance of his Wookie comrade on Trudeaus socks, tweeting on Thursday it was another reason he loves the prime minister.
But Canadian actor William Shatner, who starred in the rival Star Trek franchise, suggested his feelings were hurt by the sock choice, tweeting a tearful emoji and message: @JustinTrudeau I thought we were friends?
Chewbacca socks?
Trudeau is a well-known fan of Star Wars, having dressed as Han Solo - with his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau as Princess Leia - in 2015 to trick-or-treat on Halloween with his children.
Hamill joked that Trudeau also wears Star Wars-themed underclothes, tweeting that Plus-I have it on good authority exactly what he was wearing UNDER his suit along with a photo of Luke Skywalker childrens underwear.
Trudeau tweeted a reply on Friday: Thanks Mark.
Sadly those havent fit in a while... along with a may the force be with you Star Wars hashtag.
The Prime Ministers office declined to comment on whether Trudeaus sock choice was causing friction between Star Wars and Star Trek fans.
Trudeaus penchant for wearing novelty socks to fit many occasions, including socks celebrating gay pride, NATO, and the Eid Islamic festival, has garnered both attention and disdain.
A New York Times story in June speculated the sock diplomacy symbolized Trudeaus refusal to be bound by antiquated mores.
Former U.S. president Bill Clinton attends a pontifical requiem mass for late former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl in the cathedral in Speyer, Germany, July 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Arne Dedert/Pool

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Former U.S. President Bill Clintons debut novel will not hit shelves for almost a year, but it is already getting the TV treatment as Showtime said Friday that it would adapt the anticipated book into a series.
Clintons The President Is Missing, co-authored with prolific thriller writer James Patterson, will follow the sudden disappearance of a sitting U.S. president and will draw on Clintons knowledge of holding the office.
It is due to be published in June 2018 and is the first time a U.S. president has co-authored a thriller.
Im really enjoying writing this book and working with Jim, Clinton said in a statement.
And I cant wait to see Showtime bring the characters to life.
Showtime, the premium cable network owned by CBS Corp, did not give any details on casting or when the series might air.
The series is yet another high-profile addition to the growing landscape of television, which has drawn Oscar-winning film talent to create and star in shows.
Showtime President and CEO David Nevins said getting the television rights to the book was a coup in the highest order.
British creative director Paul Surridge acknowledges the applause from Italian designer Roberto Cavalli at the end of Roberto Cavalli Spring/Summer 2018 show at the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Stefano Rellandini

MILAN (Reuters) - British designer Paul Surridge debuted in Milan with his first collection for Italian fashion house Roberto Cavalli, showing tight-fitting designs and animal prints that he said were an attempt to find a new type of sensuality.
The alumni of Londons Central Saint Martins college became Cavallis creative director in May, following the departure of Norwegian Peter Dundas after only three seasons.
I am celebrating the womans body and I try to dig deep to find a new sensuality which I think is missing on the general landscape, he told Reuters at the end of the show.
Surridge said his collection incorporated the authenticity and use and respect of materials that Roberto Cavalli had shown when he was designing for the brand.
With me its not just about looking at the past but also looking at things right now and building a wardrobe that is contemporary ... with a cocktail of elements, he added.
The groups Chief Executive, Gian Giacomo Ferraris, said Surridge was embracing the future while respecting the past.
Models parade at the end of the Roberto Cavalli Spring/Summer 2018 show at the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Alessandro Garofalo

Florence-based Cavalli was bought in 2015 by Italian private equity firm Clessidra and is undergoing a radical overhaul aimed at relaunching the brand, popular with celebrities.
To the sound of African beats in the middle of Parco Sempione, one of Milans largest parks, models wore tight, long dresses with ample cardigans draped over them, wide trouser pantsuits and animal print ensembles.
Slideshow (10 Images)

Cavallis signature animalier prints were simplified from past years, matched with dark tones of blue and brown.
Lines were clean and less baroque than the rich collections of past years and flowed, showing off the models bodies.
Tiger prints appeared on suits, tops and trenches.
Plain black blazers were matched with animal prints and snake skin vests.
Black dresses flowed, some with transparent inlays, other decorated with metal beaded tops.
The clothes were complemented with chunky ethnic bracelets, metal necklaces, big leather clutches and flat slippers in horse hair in earthy tones.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - When the sisters behind high-fashion label Rodarte decided to make their debut film Woodshock, they looked for inspiration where they have always searched - in the redwood forests by their Northern California coastal home.
Laura Mulleavy, 38, and Kate Mulleavy, 37, took the majestic and ethereal wooded landscapes near their hometown of Aptos, California, to write and direct a dark poetic thriller of a young womans psychological descent after the death of her mother.
We were always very inspired by nature, Laura Mulleavy told Reuters.
In writing our first film, we definitely were really looking at nature through a microscope, the idea that were so connected to the natural world and yet we have completely, as human beings.
In a lot of ways weve cut ourselves off from that connection.
Woodshock, out in U.S. movie theaters on Friday, follows Theresa (Kirsten Dunst), who works at a marijuana shop in a rural coastal California town and drifts like a wood nymph in a weed haze through the redwood trees that are slowly being cut down.
Made for around $5 million, the Mulleavys brought their years of running a successful independent fashion label to the business of independent filmmaking.
Cast member Kirsten Dunst (C) poses with directors Laura (L) and Kate Mulleavy at the premiere for "Woodshock" in Los Angeles, California, U.S., September 18, 2017.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni

Having run (Rodarte) for 12 years, you really learn to be a creative protector of the ideas and the vision behind what youre doing and that is something we could very solidly bring into film, Kate Mulleavy said.
The striking visuals of the eerie forests, misty tree tops and vibrant flora of Humboldt County, California play a starring role in Theresas journey, as well as echoing the bohemian California aesthetic that marks the Rodarte runway collections.
Slideshow (5 Images)

Rodartes most recent Spring/Summer 2018 collection featured models in delicate lace dresses accented with babys breath flowers draped through their hair, detailed flower embroidery and vibrant flora prints.
The film has received mixed reviews, with some praising the artistic visuals and dream-like sequences, while others found the plot to be slumberous.
When you make anything thats not homogenous and not cookie-cutter and understandable in the typical straightforward way, that will be provocative and thats exciting, Kate Mulleavy said.
Were two very intelligent women and that is not always taken in the right way in terms of creativity ... a womans work and a mans work are very differently spoken of in the creative field, she said.
MILAN (Reuters) - Geometric designs in tropical hues breezed along Fendis catwalk in Milan on Thursday as the Italian fashion house showed off its spring-summer 2018 collection.
The luxury label, part of French luxury goods conglomerate LVMH, showcased clothes by Karl Lagerfeld and Silvia Venturini Fendi in colors redolent of sea, sand and exotic landscapes, and in fabrics as light as gossamer.
The show, on the second day of Milan Fashion Week, was held in Fendis Milan headquarters.
In a world where Italian Futurism meets tropical travel, the collection emerges in a swirl of Caribbean colors and flavors, a style note said.
First down the catwalk was a geometric outfit with an off-the-shoulder, deep v-neck jacket in ocean blue and red and yellow stripes, matched with a knee-length skirt in the same symmetrical lined motif.
Models parade at the end of the Fendi Spring/Summer 2018 show during the Milan Fashion Week in Milan, Italy, September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Alessandro Garofalo

The geometry of the lines recurred in many of the otherwise airy and floaty designs.
Fluid organza blouses were matched with straight leather skirts, dresses were off the shoulder and tops and skirts were decorated with palm leaf shapes.
Slideshow (15 Images)

Models including Gigi Hadid, sister Bella and Kendall Jenner strutted to drum and bass music and the calls of tropical birds.
The collection included the new Mon Tresor bucket bag, the Runaway tote and new versions of the Kan I F bag, a company note said.
Fendi showed off fur coats in different lengths, decorated with stripes, flowers or the groups F logo.
Milan Fashion Week runs until Monday.
Also showcasing their collections on Thursday are Italys Prada and eclectic brand Moschino.
Story highlights News of Kylie Jenner's pregnancy broke last week

Jenner posts photos to Instagram over the weekend

(CNN) Kylie Jenner appears to be having some fun with her fans.
After news of her pregnancy broke Friday, the reality TV star posted two pics over the weekend on her official Instagram account.
The first photo posted Sunday showed Jenner and a group of her friends wearing robes with the caption "mornings :-)"

Her stomach is hidden by what appears to be a column.
mornings :) A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Sep 24, 2017 at 11:42am PDT

The next photo, posted an hour later, shows Jenner and her bff, model Jordyn Woods.
Story highlights Concerts Sunday had political moments

Eddie Vedder took a knee

(CNN) Two concerts held Sunday highlighted America's current political climate.
The "Concert for Charlottesville" at University of Virginia's Scott Stadium, headlined by The Dave Matthews Band, was held to help the college town heal after white supremacists violently clashed with counter-protesters there last month.
The night was billed as "an evening of music and unity."
Matthews invited Susan Bro onstage during his performance.
Bro is the mother of Heather Heyer, the 32-year-old counter-protester who was struck and killed when a car slammed into a crowd.
Other high profile performers included Pharrell (who took a knee in a show of solidarity with former San Francisco 49er Colin Kaepernick and other NFL players), Arianna Grande and Justin Timberlake, who opened his set with the classic civil rights anthem, "A Change Is Gonna Come" by the legendary soul-singer Sam Cooke.
Read More
(CNN) The following contains spoilers about the premiere of "Star Trek: Discovery."
Despite being outfitted with some interesting wrinkles, "Star Trek: Discovery" is an unspectacular addition to the existing fleet of "Trek"-branded series.
The result, creatively, makes for an awkward liftoff, one perhaps most notable for its commercial mission, which is to entice new subscribers to CBS All Access.
Launched with a cliffhanging hour on CBS, the program's second episode and those thereafter will air on the network's fledgling streaming service, a shrewd way to attempt to hook fans and extract their hard-earned cash.
Still, if that represents a fresh approach distribution-wise, where "Discovery" feels weakest is in the fundamental qualities that have defined the best "Trek" series -- namely, the strength of the interplay among its characters.
By that measure, this sixth live-action iteration feels a trifle clunky, especially in patches of dialogue during the initial episodes, three of which were previewed.
Set in 2256, roughly a decade before the original "Star Trek" embarked on its five-year mission a half-century ago, the program breaks ground by building its plot both around an African-American woman, Michael Burnham ("The Walking Dead's" Sonequa Martin-Green), and a first officer, as opposed to a starship captain.
Read More
Story highlights Bradley died in New York surrounded by family and friends

He canceled several tour dates this month after his cancer returned

(CNN) Singer Charles Bradley, who was known as the "Screaming Eagle of Soul" because of his raspy voice and stirring performances, has died.
He was 68.
Bradley died in New York on Saturday surrounded by family, friends and some of his bandmembers, according to a statement on his website.
"It is with a heavy heart that we announce the passing of Charles Bradley.
Thank you for your thoughts and prayers during this difficult time," it said.
The soul singer was diagnosed with stomach cancer in 2016, and he started performing on the road this year after receiving a clean bill of health.
Read More
(CNN) Legendary musician Stevie Wonder took both knees at a New York music festival, seemingly showing solidarity with NFL players criticized by President Donald Trump hours earlier.
"Tonight, I'm taking a knee for America; but not just one knee, I'm taking both knees," he said on stage Saturday before his performance at the Global Citizens Festival.
"Both knees in prayer for our planet, our future, our leaders of the world and our globe.
Amen .. .
During the event, Wonder also spoke about interrupting hate, bigotry and condemning sexism.
Trump's comments

His remarks appeared to refer to Colin Kaepernick -- formerly with the San Francisco 49ers, but currently without a team -- who last year drew national attention for refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," Kaepernick said last year.
Trump is responding a year later, saying if fans would "leave the stadium" when players kneel in protest during the national anthem, "I guarantee, things will stop."
Trump said NFL owners should respond to the players by saying, "Get that son of a b***h off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
Addressing the crowd before he performed, Wonder urged attendees to denounce bigotry and racism.
"Our global brothers and sisters, I didn't come here to preach, but I'm telling you, our spirit must be in the right place.
All the time -- not just now, but tomorrow and whenever you, whenever you, whenever you need to interrupt hate, stand down bigotry, condemn sexism and find love for all of our global brothers and sisters every day," Wonder said.
He then took a knee with his son, Kwame Morris.
Other entertainers, athletes respond

Several sports stars have released statements criticizing Trump, including LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum" for his tweet uninviting Golden State Warriors' Stephen Curry from visiting the White House.
(CNN) For Emma Stone, living up to the legacy of the indomitable Billie Jean King in "Battle of the Sexes," about the infamous tennis match of the same name, was a big task to take on.
Not only was King a female athlete who had a major hand in paving the path for women who came after her in the sports world, but Stone physically had to look the part of a sun-kissed champion tennis player.
"It was the first time that I focused so, so much on the physicality of someone," Stone told CNN.
"Playing an athlete, that is how she was able to make change in the world...that was her avenue to this voice that she had.
So, that made physicality incredibly important."
Stone said the role called for her to get and look "stronger" -- something she found empowering.
Read More
"Star Trek: Discovery" might be beaming into the new frontier of streaming, but this latest spinoff is upholding a long tradition of using the 51-year-old franchise as the fuel to launch new services.
CBS will premiere the show on Sunday, using the network exposure as a tease intended to drive people to CBS All Access, its subscription streaming service.
The twice-delayed introduction comes after a spinoff of "The Good Wife," titled "The Good Fight," attracting nearly 8 million viewers for its network debut.
(The network isn't releasing specific data for All Access but has renewed that show for a second season.)
By leveraging "Trek" in this fashion -- to the chagrin of some fans -- CBS is essentially mirroring the strategy that Paramount employed in the mid-1990s, when it used "Star Trek: Voyager" as the cornerstone of its then-fledgling network, UPN.
There were, in fact, even earlier plans to lean on Gene Roddenberry's creation to sell stations on a new network, dating back to the syndicated introduction of "Star Trek: The Next Generation" in 1987.
Admittedly, the latest edition of "Star Trek," featuring a cast that includes "The Walking Dead's" Sonequa Martin-Green, Michelle Yeoh and Jason Isaacs, arrives in a media world almost as complicated as the one Roddenberry envisioned.
That begins with the rights to "Star Trek," which were split between Paramount, which distributes the movies; and CBS, which handles the TV component, when Viacom implemented a corporate divorce of the two in 2006.
Related: 'The Good Fight' makes good case for CBS All Access spinoff

For a series famously canceled after three seasons in its original voyage, "Star Trek" has gone on to generate billions of dollars in revenue from five prior live-action series and 13 movies.
Perhaps more significantly, it possesses an inordinately passionate fan base, the kind of ardor that's required, in theory, to get people to ante up for a fledgling service.
Trekkers, however, are also known for their skepticism, which has been fueled by the delays and the departure of producer Bryan Fuller ("Hannibal," "American Gods"), after reported clashes over the show's creative direction.
CBS clearly knows what it's doing, or at least hoping to do: convert a significant percentage of those "Star Trek" fans who sample the program into subscribers paying $5.99 a month.
On a call with investors last month, CBS CEO Leslie Moonves called the series "the perfect vehicle to take All Access to the next level and beyond."
Like most streaming shows, success will be relative.
But given its long history, "Star Trek: Discovery" comes armed with the sort of awareness designed to help the show live long enough for CBS to prosper.
"Star Trek: Discovery" premieres Sept. 24 at 8:30 p.m. on CBS.
(DVR alert: The start could be delayed by football.)
Story highlights Manson was wrongly connected to Columbine

He said it destroyed his career at the time

(CNN) Being falsely linked to the Columbine massacre has long rankled singer Marilyn Manson.
Now he is saying it was catastrophic to his career.
Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold gunned down 12 students and one teacher at their Colorado high school before taking their own lives.
At the time, it was erroneously reported that the shooters were fans of Manson's music.
Read More
Story highlights Jenner has been dating rapper Travis Scott since April

At 20, she is the youngest in the Kardashian-Jenner clan

(CNN) The youngest sibling in the Kardashian-Jenner clan is now expecting.
Two sources close to the "overjoyed" family tell CNN that Kylie Jenner, 20, is pregnant and due in February.
The makeup mogul and reality star has been in a relationship with rapper Travis Scott since April.
Photos: Growing celebrity families Photos: Growing celebrity families Makeup mogul and reality star Kylie Jenner and boyfriend rapper Travis Scott are expecting a child together, two sources close to the family confirmed to CNN.
It will be the first for Jenner, 20.
She is due in February.
Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families "Breaking Bad " star Aaron Paul and filmmaker wife Lauren Parsekian announced in September that they are expecting their first child.
The pair married in 2013.
Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Victoria's Secret model Behati Prinsloo and singer Adam Levine are expecting their second child.
The couple married in 2014 and are the parents of a daughter, Dusty Rose, born in September 2016.
Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Game, set, match.
Tennis star Serena Williams revealed in April that she and Alexis Ohanian were expecting their first child.
Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr. was born September 1.
The couple announced their engagement in December 2016.
Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Designer and TV personality Lauren Conrad welcomed a son with husband William Tell on July 5.
Liam James Tell is the first child for Conrad and Tell who married in 2014.
Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Olympic gold medalist Ryan Lochte and his fiance Kayla Rae Reid welcomed their first child, a son, in June.
Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Bristol Palin is now the mother of three.
The former "Dancing With the Stars" contestant gave birth in May to her second daughter with husband, Dakota Meyer.
Palin also has a son from a previous relationship.
Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Model Eniko Parrish and her comedian husband Kevin Hart announced in May that they are expecting their first child together, a boy.
Hart has a son and a daughter from his previous marriage.
Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Nikki Reed and Ian Somerhalder welcomed daughter Bodhi Soleil Reed Somerhalder on July 25.
The couple married in April 2015.
Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson and singer Ciara welcomed daughter Siena Princess Wilson on April 28.
Ciara announced the birth on Instagram.
Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Married reality stars Heidi Montag and Spencer Pratt announced in April that they are expecting their first child in October 2017.
Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Brittany Bell and Nick Cannon welcomed son Golden "Sagon" Cannon om February 21.
Cannon announced the birth on his Instagram account.
Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families George and Amal Clooney welcomed twins Ella and Alexander in June.
They are the first children for the couple, who married in 2014.
Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Rapper Jay Z and singer Beyonc, seen here with daughter Blue Ivy Carter in 2014, are adding to their family.
The singer announced on Instagram she is pregnant with twins.
Hide Caption 14 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families "Wonder Woman" star Gal Gadot and husband Yaron Versano announced via Instagram in November that they are pregnant with their second child.
Hide Caption 15 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Tori Spelling and husband Dean McDermott announced in October that they are expecting baby No.
Son Beau Dean was born in April and joined the couple's other children: Liam, 9, Stella, 8, Hattie, 5, and Finn, 4.
Hide Caption 16 of 17 Photos: Growing celebrity families Singer Kelly Clarkson gave birth to son Remington Alexander Blackstock in April 2016..
Hide Caption 17 of 17

Jenner has had some practice with kids.
Not only is she an aunt to sister Kim's two children, sister Kourtney's three kids and brother Rob's daughter, but she often spent time with rapper Tyga's son when the pair were dating.
Read More
(CNN) For Sarah Silverman, "Battle of the Sexes" was supposed to be something of a celebration.
Filmed during the presidential election, Silverman imagined the United States would have its first female president by the time the movie was released.
She imagined watching the movie, about the infamous 1973 tennis match between female sports icon Billie Jean King and self-proclaimed male chauvinist Bobby Riggs, and feeling proud of "how far we've come."
"We got that smug smile wiped right off our faces," Silverman tells CNN.
"Instead this movie has a whole new meaning."
Still relevant

In many ways, "Battle of the Sexes" still carries a hopeful air.
The film shows a 29-year-old King (played by Emma Stone) battling 55-year-old Riggs (Steve Carell) in a game of tennis that symbolically was worth so much more than the $100,000 prize on the table.
She was fighting to prove that women were worthy of equal pay, to showcase the mighty strength of female athletes, and stand up to someone who embodied very antiquated ideals.
Prepare for a 44-year-old spoiler: She won.
The present proves, however, that many battles wage on for women.
"It's sad that it's still relevant," Carell tells CNN.
"You know, you want to do a movie like this, and you want it to be a period piece.
You want people to kind of nostalgically reflect back on, 'Oh my gosh, in the '70s, can you believe that there was any sort of attitude like this?
Good thing that that doesn't exist today.'
But it does.
It's pretty heart wrenching that it's still a discussion."
Steve Carell in a scene from 'Battle of the Sexes.'
Stone, who has spoken about her own struggle to achieve equal pay in Hollywood, agreed, saying to CNN the film should serve as a reminder that "one person can make such a huge difference."
"In many ways, it's pretty shocking to see how little has changed and how much we still need to move the needle forward," she says.
"Progress can be slow, but it's so, so important to keep going, to not lose hope and to know that eventually, it'll all going to balance out."
To add a little more balance to the world, 21st Century Fox, parent company of Fox Searchlight, will donate a portion of "Battle of the Sexes" opening weekend ticket sales to the Women's Sports Foundation, which was founded by King.
The company said it will donate 79 cents from every ticket sold to WSF, a figure that represents the amount of money American women on average earn for every dollar paid to men, according to a release.
Revisiting the action

Carell was 11 years old when King and Riggs went head to head before 30,000 people at the Houston Astrodome -- and tens of million more around the world who were watching on TV.
"Even at 11, I understood the significance of this tennis match," Carell remembers.
"But it didn't effect my perception because I was coming from a pretty open-minded place to begin with."
Carell grew up in what he calls a "equitable household."
His mom and dad were equal breadwinners and "equal partners in child rearing."
So he was raised seeing the world in that way.
He could also, he said, even see through Riggs' larger-than-life act.
"I could tell that he that it was a put-on," he says.
"It was a big joke.
And you could see, too, when Billie Jean and Bobby would do interviews together, there was a real affection that she had for him.
So she knew.
I think if she really believed that's what he thought, there'd be a different interaction between the two."
King ended up besting Riggs in all three sets (6-4, 6-3, 6-3).
Billie Jean King with Bobby Riggs before the 'Battle of the Sexes' match in 1973.
Despite her victory, revisiting that time for this film was difficult for King -- "a lot of pain, a lot of joy," she says.
But did she, at the time, think the fight for gender equality would be won by now?
She responds swiftly, "no."
"One thing about being in your 70's, you have perspective.
You know, at your age, I was like, 'Oh, let's go get this done in a few seconds,'" King says, addressing the 30-year-old reporter in front of her.
"Well, not seconds, but 10 years, 20 years."
She balls up her fists while saying this, as if boxing in a fight with every naysayer and underestimator.
"You start to realize that every generation has to start over -- fighting for equality.
And freedom and things go forward and then they go backward, they go forwards and they go backwards.
It's just always in flux," she says.
"It's really important that your generation and the younger generations take up the battle."
Pablo Escobar, one of the world's wealthiest and most notorious drug lords, met his end nearly a quarter-century ago, but his legacy continues to cast a shadow over the Netflix drama "Narcos."
On September 11, Carlos Munoz Portal, a location manager for the Netflix television series "Narcos," was found dead.
He had suffered multiple gunshot wounds in a car on a dirt road outside Mexico City, near a site he was scouting for future episodes of the TV show.
Roberto De Jesus Escobar Gaviria, Pablo Escobar's brother

In the wake of Portal's death, Pablo Escobar's brother is bringing his year-long trademark dispute with Netflix back into the headlines through an interview he gave The Hollywood Reporter (THR).
In that interview, speaking of "Narcos," which based its first two seasons on Pablo Escobar's life, he reportedly said he would "close their little show" if the streaming service did not reach a settlement agreement with him.
Roberto De Jesus Escobar Gaviria is Pablo Escobar's brother and former accountant.
He is also the founder of holding company Escobar Inc..
In July of 2016, his company requested $1 billion compensation from Netflix for what it contends are intellectual property violations.
It claims the streaming service has reaped substantial financial benefits from the popular global series by using Escobar's name and story.
Olof K. Gustafsson, chief executive officer of Escobar Inc., contended in an interview with CNNMoney that the company's request might sound "crazy" but they believe that "Narcos" is the streaming giant's most successful series and, he said, "it was never done with our authorization."
The company also seeks to defend its quest to copyright key terms related to the series and a related video game, "Narcos: Cartel Wars."
Narcos Productions, LLC, the company behind the series, has contested some of Escobar Inc.'s trademark requests, according to documents obtained by THR.
Lawyers for the company did not return CNN's request for comment.
Some of Escobar Inc.'s trademark requests relating to the name Pablo Escobar have already been granted, according to the United States Patent and Trademark Office database -- some as recently as September 19.
Escobar Inc. issued a press release this week calling on Netflix to make changes to their security protocol, with Gustafsson saying in a statement that it was "clearly not safe to film shows about drug lords."
Gaviria, 71, also spoke to THR and cautioned Hollywood about filming in Mexico and Colombia.
"I don't want Netflix or any other film production company to film any movies in Medellin or Colombia that relates to me or my brother Pablo without authorization from Escobar Inc.
It is very dangerous.
Especially without our blessing," he told THR.
"This is my country."
Asked how he would construe a statement put out by the Escobar family cautioning Netflix not to film in Mexico, Gustafsson said, "It should be construed as reality."
He added that he had no comment about how Netflix should approach filming in Mexico in the wake of the scout's death.
Netflix had no comment on the ongoing trademark dispute, Gaviria's comments or the death of Portal.
Netflix had released an earlier statement calling Portal "a well-respected location scout" and offering "condolences to his family."
Gustafsson said Netflix has not responded to Escobar Inc's offer to speak "about their security issues," in light of Portal's death.
Gaumont Television, which produces "Narcos" for Netflix and remains a key figure in the trademark dispute, did not respond to CNNMoney's request for comment on the dispute with Escobar Inc. or on plans for Season 4's production going forward.
In a statement, the production company did, however, say it was "shocked and devastated" to learn about the death of Portal, who it called "an esteemed and enormously well-regarded location scout."
"We are providing our full support to the local authorities as they investigate this tragedy and all of us at Gaumont send our heartfelt condolences to his family," Gene Stein, president of Gaumont Television, U.S., told CNNMoney.
The first two seasons of the Netflix drama focused on Escobar's cartel, including the efforts by the DEA and Colombian authorities to capture him, culminating with the drug lord's death in 1993.
Season 3 segued to Colombia's Cali cartel.
Executive Producer Eric Newman said after the first season he wasn't concerned about finding new plot lines.
"We plan on stopping when cocaine stops," he told Deadline.
Escobar Inc. Chief Operating Officer Daniel D. Reitberg told CNNMoney he's confident the company will win its battle "in the court of law."
"We're not just in the jungle.
We're not just some defunct cartel.
We are a real company with real trademarks, a real legitimate company," Reitberg said.
"And I happen to have been in the jungle with Roberto Escobar, biological brother of Pablo, down in Medellin, and I know that Roberto will not take less than $1 billion."
-- CNN's Megan Thomas contributed to this report.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights All old episodes are now available for streaming

The series reprisal happens September 28

(CNN) For the first time "Will & Grace" fans can binge-watch the complete eight seasons of the hit show.
As of Thursday, all 194 episodes are available for streaming on Hulu and the NBC App.
The binging bonanza is happening in celebration of the reprise of the comedy, which returns to NBC on September 28.
"As we gear up for the launch of the upcoming season premiere, I can't think of a better way to reintroduce 'Will & Grace' to the cultural zeitgeist than by giving audiences the opportunity to watch this historic and hilarious series wherever and whenever they want," NBC Entertainment Chairman Robert Greenblatt said in a statement.
"With its witty comebacks, pop-culture references and social commentary, 'Will & Grace' is one of the most binge-able comedies in television history, and I am certain fans both old and new will jump on this opportunity to devour it."
The original "Will & Grace" ran from 1998 to 2006.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) Even taking acknowledged liberties with what's billed as a "mostly" a true story, "Victoria & Abdul" is such a fascinating, relevant slice of history it's a shame that the movie isn't a bit less superficial.
Anchored by Judi Dench's towering presence, what emerges is a small-scale film on the order of "Driving Miss Daisy," yet which leaves its protagonists' motives frustratingly murky.
Set in 1887, the movie finds Dench's Queen Victoria bent and wizened, an octogenarian who has outlived most of her contemporaries and has little use for the toadies around her.
The monarch is unexpectedly smitten, for want of a better word, by Abdul Karim (Indian star Ali Fazal), a young clerk who has been dispatched from India to deliver a gift as part of the Queen's Golden Jubilee.
Abdul appears to instinctively reciprocate that admiration, for reasons that writer Lee Hall ("Billy Elliot") and director Stephen Frears ("The Queen") leave vague.
As his perplexed colleague (Adeel Akhtar) notes, the British have done no favors to their homeland as a colony, which makes his immediate devotion puzzling.
Simply put, it would help if we knew more -- indeed, almost anything -- about him.
While there's nothing wrong with being inspired to Google the subject after watching a movie, it shouldn't feel like a prerequisite.
Abdul becomes the queen's constant companion and Munshi, or teacher, instructing her about India, Urdu and Islam.
The relationship unsettles the court, breeding suspicion regarding his motives from such quarters as the queen's son (Eddie Izzard), doctor (Paul Higgins) and Prime Minister (Michael Gambon, briefly).
Read More
Photos: Shocking celebrity splits In September 2017, Gina Torres announced her separation from Laurence Fishburne.
The couple, who were married in 2002 and share a daughter, quietly split the previous year.
Hide Caption 1 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits In September 2017, Fergie and Josh Duhamel announced they were separating after eight years of marriage.
"To give our family the best opportunity to adjust, we wanted to keep this a private matter before sharing it with the public," the couple said in a joint statement.
"We are and will always be united in our support of each other and our family."
Hide Caption 2 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actors Chris Pratt and Anna Faris announced August 6 that they were separating after eight years of marriage.
"We tried hard for a long time, and we're really disappointed," they said in separate social media posts.
Hide Caption 3 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Tom DAgostino Jr. and his reality star wife, the former Luann de Lesseps, have split.
"The Real Housewives of New York City" star tweeted on August 3 that she and her husband of seven months had decided to divorce.
Hide Caption 4 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner filed for divorce in April, almost two years after they announced they planned to.
The couple took many fans by surprised when, one day after their 10th wedding anniversary, they revealed they were splitting.
Hide Caption 5 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits People has reported that Tarek El Moussa and Christina El Moussa are separating following an altercation at their home earlier this year.
The parents of two young children are the stars of HGTV's "Flip or Flop."
Hide Caption 6 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits The back and forth relationship between Lamar Odom and Khloe Kardashian is over, after a Los Angeles judge finalized their divorce on December 9, 2016.
Hide Caption 7 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Rapper Big Sean and "Glee" actress Naya Rivera called off their engagement in April 2013, six months after announcing their plans to wed. Rivera moved on from Big Sean to marry Ryan Dorsey.
Hide Caption 8 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Naomi Watts and Liev Schreiber announced in September 2016 that they were ending their 11-year relationship.
They are the parents of two young sons.
Hide Caption 9 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Angelina Jolie Pitt filed for divorce from husband actor Brad Pitt in September 2016.
The couple married in 2014, but had been together almost a decade by then.
They are the parents of six children.
Hide Caption 10 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actor Ricky Schroder and his wife Andrea Bernard have reportedly split after almost 24 years of marriage.
The couple share four children together.
Hide Caption 11 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits People reported that singer Taylor Swift and producer Calvin Harris split after 15 months.
Hide Caption 12 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Keshia Knight Pulliam's husband of only seven months, former football player Ed Hartwell, filed for divorce in July.
The "Cosby Show" star said she was blindsided by the news which came soon after she announced she was pregnant with her first child.
Hide Caption 13 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Lady Gaga said on July 20, 2016, that she and fiance Taylor Kinney were taking a break.
The singer and the actor got engaged on Valentine's Day 2015.
Hide Caption 14 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits In a statement, Gavin Rossdale said Monday, August 3, that he and Gwen Stefani will "will no longer be partners in marriage."
He went on to say that the couple will jointly raise their three children.
Hide Caption 15 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Lisa Marie Presley reportedly filed for divorce in June from her husband of 10 years, musician Michael Lockwood.
He was Presley's fourth husband after Danny Keough, Michael Jackson and Nicolas Cage.
Hide Caption 16 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actress Amber Heard has filed for divorce from actor Johnny Depp, according to documents obtained by CNN.
Heard, 30, and Depp, 52, have been married since February 2015.
Hide Caption 17 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits In May it was reported that rocker Ozzy Osbourne moved out of the Beverly Hills, California, home he shared with his wife of more than 30 years, Sharon Osbourne.
Hide Caption 18 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits "How to Get Away With Murder" co-star Liza Weil has split from her husband, "Scandal" actor Paul Adelstein.
According to People, the couple, who wed in 2006, separated in January.
They are the parents of a daughter, Josephine, 5.
Hide Caption 19 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Once called the Beyonce and Jay Z of country music, singers Miranda Lambert and Blake Shelton have split.
The couple confirmed July 20 that they were ending their marriage after four years.
Both have since moved on to new relationships.
Hide Caption 20 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits After 26 years of marriage, Narvel Blackstock and Reba McEntire divorced on October 28, after a separation of a few months, McEntire announced in late December.
Though their marriage has ended, the couple will continue to work together.
Blackstock is McEntire's manager.
Hide Caption 21 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Olivier Martinez and Halle Berry announced October 27 that they've called it quits after two years of marriage.
"It is with a heavy heart that we have come to the decision to divorce," the actors said in a joint statement.
Hide Caption 22 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actress Kaley Cuoco and her husband, Ryan Sweeting, called it quits in 2015 after nearly two years of marriage.
The couple "mutually decided" to get a divorce after 21 months of marriage, a publicist for the actress said in a statement.
Hide Caption 23 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits "Mad Men" actor Jon Hamm and filmmaker Jennifer Westfeldt split in 2015, according to a statement the former couple provided to People magazine.
"With great sadness, we have decided to separate, after 18 years of love and shared history," the pair said.
"We will continue to be supportive of each other in every way possible moving forward."
The couple was not married.
Hide Caption 24 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Singer Avril Lavigne confirmed that she and hubby of two years Chad Kroeger separated.
"It is with heavy heart that Chad and I announce our separation today," she said in 2015.
Hide Caption 25 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actress Megan Fox has filed for divorce from her husband of five years, Brian Austin Green, in 2015.
Hide Caption 26 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Longtime loves Kermit the Frog and Miss Piggy announced August 4 that they had "made the difficult decision to terminate our romantic relationship."
If this crazy couple can't make it work, what hope is there?
Hide Caption 27 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Scott Disick and Kourtney Kardashian called it quits after nine years and three kids.
According to E!
(which hosts all things Kardashian), Kardashian decided to end it over the July Fourth weekend after photos surfaced of Disick with another woman.
Hide Caption 28 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Amy and Matt Roloff, stars of TLC reality series "Little People, Big World," filed for divorce after 27 years of marriage.
Hide Caption 29 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actor Ed Asner has reportedly filed for divorce from wife Cindy Gilmore eight years after the couple first split.
The pair married in 1998 and separated almost a decade later.
Hide Caption 30 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits After a year of " Conscious Uncoupling ," Gwyneth Paltrow made her split with Chris Martin official, filing for divorce on April 20.
She's seeking joint legal and physical custody of their two children.
The A-list pair, who had been married for 10 years before separating in March 2014, reportedly took a "breakup-moon" in the Bahamas following their 2014 announcement.
Hide Caption 31 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits "Good Morning America" co-host Lara Spencer and husband David Haffenreffer released a statement to Page Six in March 2015 stating that they had decided to divorce after 15 years of marriage.
The couple have two children.
Hide Caption 32 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Mandy Moore and Ryan Adams divorced six years after tying the knot, according to People magazine.
"Mandy Moore and Ryan Adams have mutually decided to end their marriage," a representative for Moore said in a statement.
"It is a respectful, amicable parting of ways, and both Mandy and Ryan are asking for media to respect their privacy at this time."
Hide Caption 33 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Comedian and actor Chris Rock filed for divorce from his wife, Malaak.
They have been married 19 years and have two children.
"Chris Rock has filed for divorce from his wife, Malaak," Rock's attorney, Robert S. Cohen, said in a statement.
"This is a personal matter and Chris requests privacy as he and Malaak work through this process and focus on their family."
Hide Caption 34 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits People reported that actress Helena Bonham Carter and her husband, director Tim Burton, called it quits after 13 years together.
The pair, who worked together on films such as "Alice in Wonderland" and "Dark Shadows," "separated amicably earlier this year and have continued to be friends and co-parent their children," a rep told the magazine.
Hide Caption 35 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Kris Jenner filed for divorce from Bruce Jenner on September 22, 2014.
The couple acknowledged that they separated in October .
"We will always have much love and respect for each other.
Even though we are separated, we will always remain best friends and, as always, our family will remain our No.
1 priority," they told E!
Hide Caption 37 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Neil Young had more than a wife in Pegi Young; he also had a musical collaborator and a muse for some of his most classic love songs.
But according to Rolling Stone, Young filed for divorce from his wife of 36 years in July 2014.
Hide Caption 38 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actors Idina Menzel and Taye Diggs surprisingly decided to separate after 10 years of marriage, a rep for the couple confirmed to People magazine in December 2013.
The couple's son, Walker, was born in 2009.
Hide Caption 39 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Melanie Griffith and Antonio Banderas "thoughtfully and consensually" brought an end to their 20-year marriage in June 2013.
The two actors released a statement announcing their breakup after reports indicated Griffith had filed for a divorce.
Hide Caption 40 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Actors Evan Rachel Wood and Jamie Bell separated after nearly two years of marriage.
The couple, who welcomed a son in July 2013, said in a statement that they plan to remain close friends.
Hide Caption 41 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits After a six-year relationship, Miranda Kerr and Orlando Bloom announced in October 2013 that they had decided to formally separate.
TMZ indicated that the pair were planning to divorce.
The couple, who share a son, said in a statement that they remain amicable.
Hide Caption 42 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Movie veteran Clint Eastwood and his wife of 17 years, Dina, separated over the summer of 2013, according to People .
They have one daughter together.
Hide Caption 43 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits George Clooney and Stacy Keibler were going strong -- and looking hot on the red carpet -- for two years.
But in July 2013, their photogenic romance came to an end.
Hide Caption 44 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Jane Seymour and James Keach announced the end of their 20-year union in April 2013.
The couple are the parents of twin sons.
Hide Caption 45 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Julianne Hough and Ryan Seacrest decided to take a break in March 2013 after more than two years together, People reported.
The duo's busy schedules were to blame, but they plan to stay friends, sources told the magazine.
Hide Caption 46 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits In September 2012, Will Arnett and Amy Poehler separated after nine years of marriage.
They have two sons.
Hide Caption 47 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes "amicably settled" their divorce in July 2012, just two weeks after Holmes filed for it, an attorney said.
Holmes and Cruise, who were married for five years, have one daughter.
Hide Caption 48 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Former California Gov.
Arnold Schwarzenegger and Maria Shriver separated in May 2011 after 25 years of marriage.
The public has since learned of Schwarzenegger's affair with the family's housekeeper that resulted in the birth of his fifth child.
Hide Caption 49 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits After almost seven years together, Kate Winslet and director Sam Mendes went their separate ways in March 2010.
The couple said that the split was mutual and that they would continue raising their children together.
Hide Caption 50 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman collaborated on four films together, including the controversial "Eyes Wide Shut," during their 11-year marriage.
The couple split in 2001.
Hide Caption 51 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins split in 2009 after 23 years together.
The pair, who met on the set of "Bull Durham," have two sons but never married.
Hide Caption 52 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Mia Farrow appeared in several of Woody Allen's films before the couple went their separate ways in 1992.
The pair reportedly split after Farrow found out about Allen's sexual relationship with one of her adopted daughters, whom Allen married in 1997.
Hide Caption 53 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits MTV "Newlyweds" Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey split in 2005 after their three-year marriage.
Hide Caption 54 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Reese Witherspoon and Ryan Phillippe were married for seven years before calling it quits in 2006.
The pair, who have two children, finalized their divorce in 2008.
Hide Caption 55 of 57

Photos: Shocking celebrity splits Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston's seven-year romance came to an end in 2005.
Speculation over whether Angelina Jolie had anything to do with the breakup added a juicy angle to the split.
Hide Caption 56 of 57
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) He was the subject of an iconic photograph: Jeff Bauman, ashen and dazed, severely wounded in the 2013 Boston marathon bombing, rushed away in a wheelchair after losing his legs.
Now the new film "Stronger," which is based on Bauman's memoir, explores his recovery in the aftermath of the terror attack.
"I don't necessarily want to be the center of attention in this movie.
I want people to relate to my family, and to just getting through something -- getting through loss in general," Bauman told CNN's Jake Tapper in a recent interview for The Lead.
"Everyone deals with loss.
In the movie, I deal with the loss of my legs and adjusting and trying to become a new person, essentially."
Bauman said he struggled with the "Boston Strong" slogan that swept the city in the wake of the attack.
At one point during the film, his character questions aloud: "I'm a hero for standing there and getting my legs blown off?"
But Bauman said the encouragement he received from others throughout his recovery changed that.
"I could just feel the connection through all the positivity that was being sent my way.
It was really magical, and it forced me to get up and get moving," Bauman explained.
Read More
Story highlights Singer says to watch her documentary if you want to know

Responding to critical tweet, Lovato says, "I don't owe anybody anything"

(CNN) Demi Lovato is so "Confident" that she doesn't feel like she needs labels.
The singer is pushing back on inquiries about her sexuality, tweeting she doesn't "owe anybody anything."
In a recent interview with PrideSource.com, Lovato talked about her song "Cool for the Summer," which she said she intended as "just fun and bi-curiosity."
She also discussed why she doesn't speak about her sexuality.
"I just feel like everyone's always looking for a headline and they always want their magazine or TV show or whatever to be the one to break what my sexuality is," she said.
"I feel like it's irrelevant to what my music is all about.
Read More
(CNN) Salma Hayek is doing her part to gather donations for earthquake relief in Mexico.
The actress, a native of Mexico, said in an emotional plea on Instagram that she "has lived through the aftermath of a disaster of this magnitude," having experienced the 1985 earthquake that devastated the region.
Hayek said "a lot of friends died" in that event, including "an uncle that was very, very close to me."
She called the experience "horrific."
Hayek has started a Crowdrise campaign to "help the families that are going through this nightmare right now in Mexico."
As of publication, her effort has raised almost $314,000.
Hayek had said she would match the first $100,000.
(CNN) Even if she wanted to, Cher says she couldn't fit into some of her most famous outfits.
The superstar talked to People about her physique and beauty secrets, and said she keeps her costumes in a special temperature-controlled unit to preserve them.
Wearing them again isn't really an option now, she said, because she's no longer the same size.
"I don't plan to rewear them, but also my whole life I was 106 pounds, and I haven't been that in a million years," she said.
"I can't really get into most of them.
There's a big difference between 106 and 126."
That's right.
Cher has gained a whopping 20 pounds.
At 71, the legendary star is still in great shape and says she stays that way with the help of daily planks, which she can do for three to five minutes.
She also has a surprising skin care routine for someone so famous.
"I have a friend, her name is Dr. Barbara Sturm, and she makes an eye cream and face wash that I love," Cher said.
"I love Jan Marini products too.
I also have Proactiv products that I love."
When it comes to style and fashion, the singer enjoys seeing that the younger generation, including Kim Kardashian West, have adopted her trademark straight, with a part down the middle, hairstyle that she used to sport.
Her own at-home look these days includes sweat pants and her hair in a bun, she said.
Cher's only fashion rule is simple: "Be who you are."
"When Sonny [Bono] and I first started, we were wearing clothes that no one was wearing and that got us into trouble," she said.
"People thought we were freaks.
There's a penalty when you're the first to try something different."
As for her favorite look, Cher said she'd have to go with one of the most buzzed about -- her sheer, midriff-baring Bob Mackie creation at the 1986 Academy Awards.
"It was just crazy, but I was so in love with it.
It was this huge black feather Mohawk," she said.
"I mean I love that outfit so much.
It was so beautiful.
If you saw that outfit in person, it was just amazing."
(CNN) "Kingsman: The Golden Circle" comes down with a bad case of sequel-itis -- a condition that dictates everything must be bigger, brasher and louder -- and thus provides more sporadic fun.
Bloated at 141 minutes, director Matthew Vaughn's wildly stylized spy movie picks up an American twang, but still manages to look a little over-dressed for the occasion.
For anyone who has seen the marketing, it gives away nothing to say that the filmmakers have revived Colin Firth's character, Harry, largely because the actor was so good in the original.
It's a forgivable sin but an awkward contortion nonetheless -- ridiculous even by the standard of a graphic-novel-derived movie that revels in its absurdity.
That's certainly true of the opening sequence, a positively insane chase sequence, complete with a fight in, on and around a fast-moving taxi.
Eggsy (Taron Egerton), who has adopted the code name of his late mentor Harry, a.k.a.
Galahad, weathers that battle, but soon finds the whole Kingsmen secret service under siege, forcing him and Merlin (Mark Strong) to seek out their Yankee cousins in Kentucky, Statesman, whose cover involves bourbon, not tailoring.
The trip offers a chance for some "ooh"-inducing cameos, including Channing Tatum, Jeff Bridges and Halle Berry.
Throw in "Game of Thrones" alum Pedro Pascal as a whip-wielding agent, Julianne Moore as the sadistic villain -- whose evil drug-peddling scheme would have run afoul of Pascal's "Narcos" character -- and a rather incongruous Elton John, and this "Kingsman" certainly has an abundance of star wattage compared to its predecessor.
What it lacks, somewhat inevitably, is the same sense of freshness, settling instead for a kind of madcap chaos.
Vaughn and his co-writer Jane Goldman pile on big action set pieces not so much because they're necessary but simply because they can, yielding diminishing returns after the initial adrenaline rush.
Read More
(CNN) "Battle of the Sexes" is an easy movie to like, but with apologies to its tennis backdrop, not quite love.
Deftly recreating the Billie Jean King-Bobby Riggs match with Emma Stone and Steve Carell perfectly inhabiting the key roles, the power of the story carries the day, overcoming places where this slight film exhibits as much finesse as an overhead smash.
Those who weren't alive or were barely cognizant in 1973 might be hard-pressed to believe the circus-like atmosphere that surrounded this televised showdown, with Riggs -- a notorious tennis hustler, looking for thrills and a payday at the age of 55 -- dreaming up the idea of playing against a top-ranked woman, eagerly feeding off the publicity as a male chauvinist pig eager to strike a blow against women's lib.
The casual sexism of the time permeates the movie, but the real oomph comes from the actual clips that prove this isn't just hyperbole, such as ABC Sports' Howard Cosell musing about how Hollywood-pretty King would be if she just lost the glasses and let her hair grow out.

"
allowfullscreen>

Yet "Battle of the Sexes" is considerably stronger off the court than on it, volleying back and forth between the personal lives of its two combatants, in a fashion that nicely humanizes both while occasionally feeling a tad heavy-handed and on the nose.
Directed by Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris ("Little Miss Sunshine") from a script by "Slumdog Millionaire's" Simon Beaufoy, the movie's structure is largely framed by the relationship struggles of its two protagonists.
In this tennis story, love means a whole lot.
Read More
(CNN) Backstage looks at celebrities are fraught with peril -- especially one as aware of the image she creates and projects as Lady Gaga.
That's why a feature-length Netflix documentary devoted to a year in her life, "Gaga: Five Foot Two," never quite feels as spontaneous or illuminating as the access would suggest, unless you're totally gaga about Gaga.
The film opens with its star being hoisted skyward on cables at the Super Bowl, and quickly segues to her feeding her dogs and tooling around in the kitchen.
At 30, she speaks of being more confident and self-possessed, yet the emphasis on the toll her fame exacts -- physically, emotionally, spiritually -- could have just as easily been titled "It's Not Easy Being Gaga."
The physical ailments take on a different hue in light of the performer's recent decision to postpone a European tour , citing health concerns.
But there's so much else going on, her trips to the doctor would otherwise blend in with consulting stylists and producers.
Director Chris Moukarbel is clearly determined to convey at least the feeling of an up-close-and-personal look at his subject and does elicit some notable comments, such as Gaga talking about being badmouthed by Madonna, who labeled her music "reductive."
" allowfullscreen>

Still, there is an over-abundance of artiness to the film -- the camera lingers in strange places, like on Gaga's earrings -- that turns stretches into a bit of a snore, approaching the edge of tedium except perhaps for her most ardent fans.
Read More
Megyn Kelly launched her daytime makeover on Monday with "Megyn Kelly Today," conspicuously trying to reintroduce herself in the mold of Oprah Winfrey or Ellen DeGeneres -- complete with a caffeinated, cheering studio audience -- while establishing distance from her time as a Fox News anchor.
It's absurdly early, of course, to draw any conclusions about the efficacy of the Kelly experiment.
Still, after tepid marks for her prime time newsmagazine and now her addition to "Today," it's worth considering that NBC News brass leapt at the opportunity to snag a high-profile news star without having fully thought through how best to deploy her.
Related: Megyn Kelly turns to daytime for a shot at her own 'Oprah effect'

Wasting no time, Kelly opened the show by essentially seeking to reintroduce herself in this new role, complete with a mission statement and biography, which included discussing the sudden death of her father when she was a teenager.
"The truth is I am kind of done with politics for now," she stated, citing the show's objective as providing the audience a place to share "a laugh with us, a smile, sometimes a tear, and maybe a little hope to start your day."
Given that she was best-known for combatively grilling guests (HBO's John Oliver provided a montage on Sunday) before her run-ins with then-candidate Donald Trump, hope is certainly a change for Kelly.
But there she was mounting a charm offensive -- fielding questions from the audience, receiving flowers from her husband and warmly yukking it up with the cast and producers of "Will & Grace," in an interview that wouldn't have looked out of place on any other daytime talk show or "Access Hollywood."
Related: Megyn Kelly makes the case for Alex Jones interview

The same tone characterized a taped piece in which the "Today" team introduced Kelly to her new gig, which simply felt like a hurried attempt to soften the image of the franchise's newest host by adding her to NBC's morning family.
Kelly closed with "Settle for More," a segment designed to provide moments of hope and uplift -- the premiere's focus was a Chicago nun, who received some lovely gifts from sponsors -- but which simultaneously promotes her book.
Kelly told the New York Times that the morning program is "the show that I was born to do.
This is what I was meant to do."
That sense of mission, of purpose, would only seem to ratchet up the self-imposed pressure, as if much more was needed given NBC's high-stakes investment in her.
Kelly is a polished interviewer.
Yet whatever her interests and concerns about psychic health, it's at best questionable to introduce a show that so consciously seeks to create space between itself and serious news at a moment when there's such an abundance of it.
In the aforementioned taped segment, which was followed by a welcoming toast from the "Today" crew, Kelly asked Kathie Lee Gifford for the secret to success in daytime.
Her answer: "Being authentic."
Based on first impressions, Kelly is working awfully hard at being herself.
And as they say in TV, if she can fake that, the rest should be easy.
ESPN confronted the politics of Trump and race head-on Sunday.
The network began its pregame show "Sunday NFL Countdown" with a discussion about President Trump's incendiary rhetoric about NFL players who protest during the national anthem.
One of the show's regulars, former head coach Rex Ryan, said he supported Trump and introduced him at a campaign event.
But he was visibly angry when talking about the president's comments.
"I never signed up for that," Ryan said.
"I never wanted that.
That doesn't mean I support 100% of the things that he says and clearly this is a case."
The protests were started last season by Colin Kaepernick, who dropped to one knee during the national anthem before games to protest the treatment of African Americans, especially by police.
In a speech on Friday night, and then in a series of tweets, Trump has said the NFL should fire any player who protests during the national anthem.
Team owners and players have responded by condemning Trump.
Many players vowed to protest on Sunday.
Related: Trump's strange history with pro football

Ryan said he had gained a new perspective on the protests.
"I looked at it from a different standpoint.
I looked at it from all the men and women who stood for our country," Ryan said.
"I was wrong when I looked at it initially.
Now this year, I look at it as it's a far, far greater thing than just that."
He said he now recognizes "the greater picture of it."
Former NFL player Charles Woodson added that it's "unbelievable that after nearly 400 years of slavery, we're still going through this.
Still.
And not just from anybody" but from the president.
Show host Sam Ponder pointed out that Kaepernick has not been signed by any NFL team to play this season.
"He's still at home watching these games on TV," she said.
"We can hope that people don't shy away from the conversation."
Former wide receiver Anquan Boldin said that "there's a misconception about the kneeling.
We're protesting inequality.
We're also standing for slain police officers."
He said "we all recognize that we live in a great country, but that doesn't mean that it doesn't need to be worked on."
"It's unfortunate that it's taken this to see where guys are coming from."
Former quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, who is white, also said his perspective had been affected.
He said he used to view the anthem from the perspective of military veterans but had started to see it from the side of African Americans.
"I don't know what it's like to be Randy Moss at 17 years old," he said, referring to a fellow member of the show.
"That's kind of what has changed for me this year."
Moss, who is African-American, said he appreciated Hasselbeck's comments.
At one point, he leaned over to shake Hasselbeck's hand, calling him "brother."
Related: With 'son of a bitch' comments, Trump tried to divide NFL and its players

Earlier this month, ESPN was in the middle of a political firestorm after anchor Jemele Hill tweeted that "Donald Trump is a white supremacist who has largely surrounded himself w/ other white supremacists."
Conservative media outlets, including Fox News, accused ESPN of political bias.
Trump jumped in to trash talk ESPN on Twitter.
After several days of headlines, ESPN President John Skipper sent an internal memo reminding his staff to focus on journalism and not politics.
An ESPN spokesperson said Sunday morning's pregame discussion was on point with the network's mission.
"If you read Skipper's note he said we would -- as we always have, really -- cover the intersection of sports and politics," the spokesperson said.
Grab a cup of coffee.
Joe Biden wants to discuss the news.
The former vice president has launched a new daily podcast-like program called "Biden's Briefing" in which he shares the articles he's reading.
He's partnered with a new startup called Ground Control to create the audible programs, which are between 3 to 15 minutes long.
Topics range from healthcare and climate change to the economy.
Entertainment and sports talent firm Creative Artists Agency and voice operating system SpokenLayer also collaborated on the project.
It's now available via services like iTunes and Spotify, and it's compatible with Amazon's Alexa voice assistant.
"It isn't just a collection of stories I've enjoyed, it's part of a much bigger conversation," Biden said during an episode.
"The world is changing quickly, and now more than ever we need to broaden our perspective and be better informed."
Biden gives a brief intro, and then a voice over actor reads the entire article.
Related: Voice-powered search is replacing typing -- and other internet trends

"These briefings include a range of thoughts and opinions, some of which I agree with and some I don't, but all of which I think are important to spend some time thinking about," Biden added.
Articles are sourced through partnerships with more than a dozen news outlets, including Bloomberg, BuzzFeed and Politico.
It's unclear whether Biden is an investor in Ground Control or if he gets paid for the program.
Ground Control, which launched in August, is developing voice-based entertainment experiences like Biden's Briefing with an initial focus on current events and interactive games.
CEO Mike Macadaan said it plans to add more partnerships with celebrities from the entertainment, sports, politics and music spaces.
"There are a lot of areas of interest [Biden] has that people don't know about ... like transportation, technology and science.
He's a big time consumer of content," Macadaan told CNN Tech.
"He wanted a unique way to get what makes an impact on him out to his audience."
The startup is tapping into the increasing use of smart speakers by offering its products via Amazon Alexa.
Although they have not been mass adopted, virtual assistants like voice-enabled speakers are becoming more widely used by Americans, according to an eMarketer forecast earlier this year.
The research firm estimates 35.6 million Americans will use a voice-activated assistant device at least once a month this year, an increase of 128.9% compared to last year.
Related: Alexa has a new friend: Cortana

"Consumers are becoming increasingly comfortable with the technology, which is driving engagement," Martn Utreras, VP of forecasting at eMarketer, said in a report.
"As prices decrease and functionality increases, consumers are finding more reasons to adopt these devices."
By 2020, tech research firm Gartner estimates 75% of U.S. households will have a smart speaker.
Facebook continues to resist calls for public disclosure of the Russia-linked ads that targeted American voters last year.
But Senator Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate intelligence committee, is still pushing.
"We want to try to find a way," he said, "to make some of those ads and other information public."
Facebook provided data about the pro-Trump propaganda to special counsel Robert Mueller's team after Mueller obtained a search warrant earlier this month.
At first Facebook declined to provide the data to Congressional investigators, but on Thursday the company reversed itself.
"We've not received any of their information yet.
They will disclose that to us next week," Warner said in an interview with CNN on Saturday.
"We're going to try to work with them on how we can get that information then out to the public," he said.
Speaking on CNN's "Reliable Sources," Warner said he wants both Facebook (FB, Tech30) and Twitter (TWTR, Tech30) executives to come in for a public hearing about the matter.
How Facebook sees the Russian ad scandal

Campaign ads on Facebook and other social networking sites currently face none of the disclosure requirements that TV and radio ads do.
Warner is working with fellow Democratic senator Amy Klobuchar to seek co-sponsors for a bill that would change that.
"Every American wants to know that the political advertising they're seeing or viewing, whether it's on television or on their iPhone, that they know, one, it's not coming from a foreign nation or foreign agents, and two, they ought to be able to see the content, even if it's not directly focused on them," Warner said.
He was referring to the idea of "dark posts" on Facebook and other web sites, when advertisers target specific audiences and hide the ads from everyone else.
"If you're for or against a candidate, or for or against a cause, you ought to be able to see the content that's being launched against you, particularly if it comes from a foreign source," Warner said.
Facebook said on Thursday that it will voluntarily implement disclosure features for "political" ads.
There are big and unanswered questions about how Facebook will define political ads versus other kinds.
Related: Is it enough?
Not content with voluntary action by Facebook, Warner wants legislation that will be enforceable and will apply to other web sites as well.
Speaking the language of Silicon Valley, Warner said he views the legislation as "an iterative process."
When pressed about whether Congress should seek to restrict, not just regulate, political ads on the web, Warner demurred, saying "I want to start with the lightest touch possible."
So far Warner has no Republican co-sponsors, but he said he believes he'll get there.
"In 2016, the Russians tried to help Mr. Trump.
But the Russians are not pro-Republican or pro-Democrat," he said.
"I strongly believe there will be an awful lot of Republican support" for the bill.
In the interview, Warner did not limit his criticism to Facebook.
In the run-up to election day, he admitted, there was not a full understanding of Russian attempts to meddle in the election.
The intelligence community" did not "fully connect all the dots, unfortunately, until after the election," he said.
Facebook, too, was slow to recognize it.
"Ten months ago Facebook was saying, 'Hey, that's crazy, there was no Russian interference, there was no Russian involvement.'
What we've seen now is that there was dramatic Russian involvement," Warner said, "both in terms of paid advertising, as well as these so-called fake accounts, and we still don't know the total number of fake accounts.
I don't think we know the full extent of Russian advertising."
Thousands of people packed the University of Virginia's Scott Stadium for the "Concert for Charlottesville" in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Sept. 24, 2017.
The show was intended to raise money for charity and promote unity in the aftermath of the violence in the city last month.
Dave Matthews hosted the gig, with performances from Ariana Grande, Justin Timberlake, Pharrell Williams, Chris Martin, The Roots and more.
Check out the latest photos of your favorite celebrities.
"Today" host Al Roker talks with NBC's Eric Hinton about writing a weather book for children, how journalists should report on extreme weather events and why there are more of them than ever.
Video

Kevin James and Jimmy Fallon compete in the "Tonight Show" Fall Classic, taking turns doing their best pratfalls in different categories, like tripping up and then falling down a set of stairs.
Cuomo, Jennifer Lopez and local leaders urged people to help Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
Ida Siegal reports.
Jennifer Lopez pledged Sunday to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help residents in Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Lopez made the announcement at a press conference with Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, who announced the state would organize a recovery effort, including information on www.ny.gov that would detail donation collection points and lists of items that needed to be donated.
"We have to help Puerto Rico with the same urgency that we're helping Texas and Florida and the other parts of this country that need help," Cuomo said.
Lopez, who is of Puerto Rican descent and was born in the Bronx, said she hasn't been able to reach all of her family on the island.
J.Lo Pledges $1M for Puerto Rico Relief

Jennifer Lopez has pledged to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Cuomo also announced a website to organize the recovery effort in the state.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

"Puerto Ricans are American citizens and today Puerto Rico needs our help.
Hurricane Maria has devastated our island," she said.
She said that she and MLB star Alex Rodriguez, who is of Dominican descent and was also born in New York, were using their connections in entertainment, sports and business to gather support for relief efforts.
Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred and New York Yankees owner Hal Steinbrenner have both committed to giving a "significant" contribution, Lopez said.
She added that she and ex-husband Marc Anthony are organizing the Latino community to support Puerto Rico.
Across Puerto Rico, more than 15,000 people are in shelters, including some 2,000 rescued from the north coastal town of Toa Baja.
Officials were racing to stem a growing humanitarian crisis in towns left without fresh water, fuel, electricity or phone service.
Cuomo said it will take billions of dollars in the long term to help the island recover, money that will have to come from the federal government.
Taking a shot at President Donald Trump, the governor said, "instead of arguing with football players, instead of obsessing about how to take health care from the poor in this country, why don't we put the politics aside and focus on helping Americans in desperate need."
NFL players knelt, linked arms and protested in other ways during the national anthem on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, after days of criticism from President Donald Trump.
The protests began with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kickoff.
Before the games, Trump criticized the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying, "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at which players from which team took a stand, or didn't, against Trump's comments.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
'Will & Grace' Cast Performs Show's Theme Song With Lyrics on 'Tonight'

The cast of "Will & Grace" joins Jimmy to perform the show's theme song for the first time with lyrics.
'Tonight': Colin Jost Won an Emmy But Went Home Empty-Handed

Link

Embed
Steve Urkel made himself at home there, but now, the building made famous by "Family Matters" is going to be torn down.
Ryan Gosling, Jay-Z and Gal Gadot will be among the stars appearing on the upcoming season of saturday Night Live which premiers Sept. 30.
Wonder Woman is coming to 30 Rock.
Gal Gadot will host the Oct. 7 episode of "Saturday Night Live" coming off the heels of the worldwide hit "Wonder Woman," which grossed $400 million dollars at the domestic box office.
Gadot will be joined by Grammy winner Sam Smith, who recently released his new song "Too Good at Goodbyes" earlier this month.
It was earlier announced that Oscar-nominated actor Ryan Gosling will host the premiere of the upcoming 43rd season of "SNL" when it returns Sept. 30 with the help of hip-hop superstar, Jay Z, who will be the musical guest.
This will be Gosling's second time hosting "SNL."
His new movie "Blade Runner 2049" opens on Oct. 6.
The long running sketch comedy show also announced that Kumail Nanjiani will be joined by musical guest P!nk when he hosts for the first time on Oct. 14.
Nanjiani stars in HBO's "Silicon Valley" and recently released the critically acclaimed film "The Big Sick."
This season will air live coast to coast.
The latest winner of "America's Got Talent" will show off her talent on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" Friday.
Darci Lynne, the 12-year old ventriloquist who wowed audiences on NBC's hit talent show, left Ellen speechless when she performed the Ella Fitzgerald classic "Summertime" with her puppet named Petunia.
Lynne said she got into ventriloquism after seeing someone at her church perform.
The Oklahoma native won $1 million and a headlining gig in Las Vegas on Tuesday night.
Jake Gyllenhaal also makes an appearance on Ellen's show to promote his new movie "Stronger" about Jeff Bauman, who survived the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
"Stronger" opens Friday in theaters.
Jimmy Fallon chats with his new 30 Rock neighbor Megyn Kelly and what she hopes for her new daytime show on NBC.
Emma Stone sits down with Seth Meyers to talk about what word won her the 4th-grade spelling bee, where she keeps her Oscar and why Billie Jean King is the best person to watch tennis with.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP's 'Hail Mary' Health Bill

Seth Meyers discusses the GOP's latest health care, which Sen. Mitch McConnell says is 2,074 pages, and what President Donald Trump thinks of it.
A woman who allegedly threatened a worker at the DASH store in West Hollywood returned later wielding what appeared to be a machete.
The woman threatened that the Kardashians would be killed if they "step on communist territory."
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

A woman who entered a Kardashian-owned store Thursday was arrested after allegedly threatening employees with a handgun and threatening death to the famous family while being armed with a machete.
The incident began at the DASH store in West Hollywood around 11:32 a.m., the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department's West Hollywood station said.
The woman pointed a handgun at an employee after shouting, "Stay away from Cuba," then knocked things off the counter before walking out of the store, police said.
Television cameras covering the initial incident were rolling as the woman returned around 1:25 p.m. holding what appeared to be a machete and incoherently shouting profanities.
"The Kardashians will be executed if they step on communist territory," she shouted.
"They'll be f-----g killed.
Don't mess with the Castro family."
When someone shouted at her to "shut up," she shouted back, "Do you want to f-----g get stabbed?"
"And this is on the cusp of the president speaking at the U.N.," the woman said before wedging the machete between the store's door and frame, leaving it behind as she walked away toward La Cienega Boulevard.
The woman was later arrested at her home.
It was not immediately clear if she had an attorney.
Jimmy Fallon has Fred Armisen record some noises, like laughs and gasps, and uses the Samplebot app on his iPad to remix them into a song.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

'Tonight': 'Speak for Yourself' With Ben Stiller

UP NEXT

Jimmy Fallon and Ben Stiller perform "Speak for Yourself," their 90s teen drama.
Seth Meyers chats with "Saturday Night Live's" Bobby Moynihan, who talks about how he came up with Tom Hanks' iconic "David S. Pumpkins" sketch.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

'Late Night': Checking in With Rep. Dana Rohrabacher of Calif.

UP NEXT

Seth Meyers takes a break from breaking news to talk about Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., and his relationship with Russia.
Taylor Swift performs at DIRECTV NOW Super Saturday Night Concert at Club Nomadic on Saturday, Feb. 4, 2017 in Houston, Texas.
(Photo by John Salangsang/Invision/AP)

"Haters gonna hate," as the song goes.
But whose song is it?
Taylor Swift is being sued in federal court in Los Angeles, with the songwriters behind the 2001 3LW recording called "Playas Gon' Play" arguing that she lifted lyrics from the tune for her 2014 smash hit "Shake it Off."
According to the copyright infringement lawsuit, songwriters Sean Hall and Nathan Butler contend their 2001 song includes the lyrics "Playas, they gonna play, and haters, they gonna hate."
Compare that with Swift's "Shake it Off" lyrics: "Cause the players gonna play, play, play, play, play and the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate."
Hall and Butler contend their copyrighted material accounts for about 20 percent of "Shake it Off," and they want compensation.
The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages, but it notes that Swift's tune has sold more than 9 million copies and the video for the song has nearly 2.4 billion views on YouTube.
"The combination of playas/players playing along with hatas/haters hating may seem like common parlance today, however, in 2001 it was completely original and unique," according to the lawsuit.
"Indeed, the combination had not been used in popular culture prior to plaintiffs' original use."
Swift's representatives have written off the lawsuit, issuing a statement saying, "This is a ridiculous claim and nothing more than a money grab.
The law is simple and clear.
They do not have a case."
According to the lawsuit, Hall has written and produced songs for artists including Justin Bieber, Color Me Badd, 98 Degrees, Lionel Richie, Pink and Maroon 5.
Butler, meanwhile, has worked with artists such as Luther Vandross, Victoria Beckham, Christina Milian, Backstreet Boys and Aaron Carter, according to the lawsuit.
Host of the upcoming morning show "Megyn Kelly TODAY," Megyn Kelly made her first appearance on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on Wednesday.
Kelly spoke candidly about her decision to leave the Fox after cable news primetime coverage became politically focused and "felt like a snake pit."
She also told DeGeneres President Trump helped solidify some of her life choices and revealed shes trying to keep an open mind waiting for him to become a unifying force.
Plus, Kelly discussed the format of her new NBC morning show.
Evie Clair returned to "America's Got Talent" on Tuesday and sang "What a Wonderful World," dedicating it to her late father, who died in early September.
"My dad taught me, after I started something, to always finish it," she said on the show.
"That's why I'm fighting to the end, just like he did."
The story of the 13-year-old and her father has been part of her journey on the show since she auditioned back in June.
During that audition, she sang "Arms" by Christina Perri, saying it was the tune she'd croon to her father Amos, who was battling colon cancer.
"Say a prayer, a prayer on forever Time is only now, Soon we'll be together."
I hope I made you proud, Daddy.
I've always done it for you and I'll do it for you forever.
A post shared by Evie Clair (@evieclair) on Sep 7, 2017 at 10:58pm PDT This week has been the best and worst week of my life.
I'm so grateful for the memories I've made with my family in the past year and a half.
I'm so grateful for my dad being such a great example of faith and strength.
He has endured so much and all that pain has finally come to an end.
He is in a place "12 gazillion" times better than this and I know he is so happy there.
Thank you to all the people who have supported my family along this journey.
I love you all.
I'll miss you so much, Daddy.
Thanks for teaching me to love salsa and chicken wings and most of all the Lord.
Love you lots.
RIP: 9/7/17 A post shared by Evie Clair (@evieclair) on Sep 7, 2017 at 6:40pm PDT

"When my dad is having rough days, then I go into his room and I sing this song to help him feel better and just to give him comfort and strength to continue fighting," she said then.
There was some doubt as to whether Clair would return to finish the competition after her father's death, but in the end the young woman came back and gave it her all with the Louis Armstrong classic.
Her performance brought the audience to tears and got a standing ovation from both the crowd and judges.
"Our hearts and our souls go out to you, Evie," said judge Howie Mandel after the performance, reported Entertainment Tonight.
"I know that your father passed this week, and I cannot believe the strength that I'm seeing in such a beautiful young girl."
But we don't know how Clair's story ends just yet: the "AGT" finals results show airs Wednesday night, Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. on NBC.
Kevin Hart and his wife Eniko Parrish are putting up a united front amid his alleged extortion scandal.
A source tells E!
News Parrishwho is pregnant with Hart's third childhas accepted her husband's apology and plans to move forward with him as a couple.
"Eniko is aware of what's going on and that Kevin is not perfect," the insider explained.
"She has accepted his apology and is focused on her pregnancy and what's to come.
She has no plans for divorce.
She believes Kevin is a good husband and always comes home to her."
The biggest issue Parrish is struggling with is the massive amount of media coverage the scandal has gained.
"She is bothered that these stories find their way into the press and that people are asking her about it," the source said.
"But she does her best to ignore it all and move forward.
She listens to her husband and is not going to get stressed out.
She is supporting him and standing by him."
The couple have since been spotted together, enjoying lunch in Los Angeles.
Sending so many apologies to my wife & kids.
I gotta do better and I will.
I'm not perfect and have never claimed to be ...I love you all.
A post shared by Kevin Hart (@kevinhart4real) on Sep 16, 2017 at 4:07pm PDT

Hart took to Instagram on Saturday to publicly apologize to his pregnant wife and his two children, Heaven and Hendrix Hart, after finding out about the alleged extortion regarding an explicit video of the comedian with another woman.
"I'm at a place in my life where I feel like I have a target on my back and because of that, I should make smart decisions.
And recently, I didn't," he shared in the video.
"You know, I'm not perfect.
I'm not going to sit up here and say that I am or claim to be in any way shape or form."
Hart continued, "I made a bad error in judgment and I put myself in a bad environment where only bad things can happen and they did.
And in doing that, I know that I'm going to hurt the people closest to me, who've I talked to and apologized to, that would be my wife and my kids."
According to TMZ, an anonymous person contacted Hart's team and provided a video of the comedian and another woman involved in a "sexually provocative situation."
The person allegedly demanded a multi-million dollar amount in return for keeping the video private.
While TMZ reports that the FBI is on the case and has a suspect, a spokesperson told E!
News, "We cannot confirm or deny the existence of an investigation."
Furthermore, the Los Angeles Police Department told us they are unaware of the situation.
Hart's rep released a statement to us, further clarifying the situation: "Someone tried to set Kevin up in a failed extortion attempt.
As law enforcement is involved, we cannot comment further as it could affect the investigation."
Kevin James and Jimmy Fallon compete in the "Tonight Show" Fall Classic, taking turns doing their best pratfalls in different categories, like tripping up and then falling down a set of stairs.
Seth Meyers sits down with Anderson Cooper, who laughs about his mom's persistent emails she sent him while he was on the air covering Hurricane Irma.
Thousands of people packed the University of Virginia's Scott Stadium for the "Concert for Charlottesville" in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Sept. 24, 2017.
The show was intended to raise money for charity and promote unity in the aftermath of the violence in the city last month.
Dave Matthews hosted the gig, with performances from Ariana Grande, Justin Timberlake, Pharrell Williams, Chris Martin, The Roots and more.
Cuomo, Jennifer Lopez and local leaders urged people to help Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
Ida Siegal reports.
Jennifer Lopez pledged Sunday to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help residents in Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Lopez made the announcement at a press conference with Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, who announced the state would organize a recovery effort, including information on www.ny.gov that would detail donation collection points and lists of items that needed to be donated.
"We have to help Puerto Rico with the same urgency that we're helping Texas and Florida and the other parts of this country that need help," Cuomo said.
Lopez, who is of Puerto Rican descent and was born in the Bronx, said she hasn't been able to reach all of her family on the island.
J.Lo Pledges $1M for Puerto Rico Relief

Jennifer Lopez has pledged to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Cuomo also announced a website to organize the recovery effort in the state.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

"Puerto Ricans are American citizens and today Puerto Rico needs our help.
Hurricane Maria has devastated our island," she said.
She said that she and MLB star Alex Rodriguez, who is of Dominican descent and was also born in New York, were using their connections in entertainment, sports and business to gather support for relief efforts.
Major League Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred and New York Yankees owner Hal Steinbrenner have both committed to giving a "significant" contribution, Lopez said.
She added that she and ex-husband Marc Anthony are organizing the Latino community to support Puerto Rico.
Across Puerto Rico, more than 15,000 people are in shelters, including some 2,000 rescued from the north coastal town of Toa Baja.
Officials were racing to stem a growing humanitarian crisis in towns left without fresh water, fuel, electricity or phone service.
Cuomo said it will take billions of dollars in the long term to help the island recover, money that will have to come from the federal government.
Taking a shot at President Donald Trump, the governor said, "instead of arguing with football players, instead of obsessing about how to take health care from the poor in this country, why don't we put the politics aside and focus on helping Americans in desperate need."
NFL players knelt, linked arms and protested in other ways during the national anthem on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, after days of criticism from President Donald Trump.
The protests began with players from the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars, who were playing in London, kneeling as the national anthem played before kickoff.
Before the games, Trump criticized the NFL on Twitter, calling for fans to boycott the league if players protest and saying, "many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S."

Take a look at which players from which team took a stand, or didn't, against Trump's comments.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
Six refused to stand the week before, mainly protesting police brutality.
Video

Kevin James and Jimmy Fallon compete in the "Tonight Show" Fall Classic, taking turns doing their best pratfalls in different categories, like tripping up and then falling down a set of stairs.
'Will & Grace' Cast Performs Show's Theme Song With Lyrics on 'Tonight'

The cast of "Will & Grace" joins Jimmy to perform the show's theme song for the first time with lyrics.
'Tonight': Colin Jost Won an Emmy But Went Home Empty-Handed

Link

Embed
Jordan Klepper attends FYC: The Daily Show with Trevor Noah at Paley Center For Media on June 15, 2016 in New York City.
"The Colbert Show" debuted on Oct. 17, 2005 with a new word  "truthiness"  and a unique, if seemingly thin premise: a nightly satire of "The OReilly Factor."
Colbert quickly succeeded against the odds  and against established late night stars Jay Leno and David Letterman (albeit before Jimmy Kimmel and Conan O'Brien moved to pre-midnight shows).
Now Colbert's fellow "Daily Show" alumnus Jordan Klepper takes over the old "Colbert Report" slot Monday with "The Opposition."
Klepper embarks on a comedy high-wire act by skewering the likes of raging conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and Breitbart News in the comic guise of a true believer.
The Opposition debuts amid more competition and more initial scrutiny faced by Colbert, who raised the bar high by playing a blowhard conservative commentator for nine years.
Klepper also has far more to tackle.
That's less a blessing than a major challenge in the aftermath of the hate-fueled tragedy of Charlottesville.
Armed with a show tagline of "embrace the fringe," Klepper is out to resist by mocking the so-called opposition.
He's also on a mission to wrest back the term "fake news" from President Trump and return it to where it belongs: to current events-driven late night TV comedy.
Klepper's new character appears to be a mutated extension of his "Daily Show" persona: a clueless, privileged Middle American doofus.
Promising clips touting "The Opposition" show him railing against the "mainstream media" and spouting absurd conspiracy theories ("Chuck Todd has a ponytail!").
Klepper also attended a pro-Trump rally in Phoenix, where he got some attendees to sign a petition calling for Hillary Clinton's impeachment.
While the segment proved sobering, it also ran the risk of punching down at the woefully ignorant rather than striking up at powerful, manipulative forces.
'Tonight': Fred Armisen's Noise Remix

Jimmy Fallon has Fred Armisen record some noises, like laughs and gasps, and uses the Samplebot app on his iPad to remix them into a song.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

But no one ever said leading "The Opposition" would be easy.
Klepper joins a crowded late night landscape, filled primarily with other white males  including Colbert, now his direct competitor, along with Jimmy Fallon, Kimmel and O'Brien.
It's a tough time slot: Just ask Klepper's predecessor, Larry Wilmore, whose strong Nightly Show got canceled after less than two years amid poor ratings.
"The Opposition" also becomes TV's first journalism-fueled late night comedy entry in the Trump era  an age of truthiness that Colbert predicted, one where facts are frighteningly fungible.
The hard truth is that Klepper's biggest task, amid all else, is to make audiences laugh before bedtime.
And he's setting out to find humor during a divisive and troubling period that might make some folks want to crawl under their beds.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
Steve Urkel made himself at home there, but now, the building made famous by "Family Matters" is going to be torn down.
Ryan Gosling, Jay-Z and Gal Gadot will be among the stars appearing on the upcoming season of saturday Night Live which premiers Sept. 30.
Wonder Woman is coming to 30 Rock.
Gal Gadot will host the Oct. 7 episode of "Saturday Night Live" coming off the heels of the worldwide hit "Wonder Woman," which grossed $400 million dollars at the domestic box office.
Gadot will be joined by Grammy winner Sam Smith, who recently released his new song "Too Good at Goodbyes" earlier this month.
It was earlier announced that Oscar-nominated actor Ryan Gosling will host the premiere of the upcoming 43rd season of "SNL" when it returns Sept. 30 with the help of hip-hop superstar, Jay Z, who will be the musical guest.
This will be Gosling's second time hosting "SNL."
His new movie "Blade Runner 2049" opens on Oct. 6.
The long running sketch comedy show also announced that Kumail Nanjiani will be joined by musical guest P!nk when he hosts for the first time on Oct. 14.
Nanjiani stars in HBO's "Silicon Valley" and recently released the critically acclaimed film "The Big Sick."
This season will air live coast to coast.
The latest winner of "America's Got Talent" will show off her talent on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" Friday.
Darci Lynne, the 12-year old ventriloquist who wowed audiences on NBC's hit talent show, left Ellen speechless when she performed the Ella Fitzgerald classic "Summertime" with her puppet named Petunia.
Lynne said she got into ventriloquism after seeing someone at her church perform.
The Oklahoma native won $1 million and a headlining gig in Las Vegas on Tuesday night.
Jake Gyllenhaal also makes an appearance on Ellen's show to promote his new movie "Stronger" about Jeff Bauman, who survived the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing.
"Stronger" opens Friday in theaters.
Jimmy Fallon chats with his new 30 Rock neighbor Megyn Kelly and what she hopes for her new daytime show on NBC.
Emma Stone sits down with Seth Meyers to talk about what word won her the 4th-grade spelling bee, where she keeps her Oscar and why Billie Jean King is the best person to watch tennis with.
'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP's 'Hail Mary' Health Bill

Seth Meyers discusses the GOP's latest health care, which Sen. Mitch McConnell says is 2,074 pages, and what President Donald Trump thinks of it.
A woman who allegedly threatened a worker at the DASH store in West Hollywood returned later wielding what appeared to be a machete.
The woman threatened that the Kardashians would be killed if they "step on communist territory."
(Published Thursday, Sept. 21, 2017)

A woman who entered a Kardashian-owned store Thursday was arrested after allegedly threatening employees with a handgun and threatening death to the famous family while being armed with a machete.
The incident began at the DASH store in West Hollywood around 11:32 a.m., the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department's West Hollywood station said.
The woman pointed a handgun at an employee after shouting, "Stay away from Cuba," then knocked things off the counter before walking out of the store, police said.
Television cameras covering the initial incident were rolling as the woman returned around 1:25 p.m. holding what appeared to be a machete and incoherently shouting profanities.
"The Kardashians will be executed if they step on communist territory," she shouted.
"They'll be f-----g killed.
Don't mess with the Castro family."
When someone shouted at her to "shut up," she shouted back, "Do you want to f-----g get stabbed?"
"And this is on the cusp of the president speaking at the U.N.," the woman said before wedging the machete between the store's door and frame, leaving it behind as she walked away toward La Cienega Boulevard.
The woman was later arrested at her home.
It was not immediately clear if she had an attorney.
Jimmy Fallon has Fred Armisen record some noises, like laughs and gasps, and uses the Samplebot app on his iPad to remix them into a song.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

'Tonight': 'Speak for Yourself' With Ben Stiller

UP NEXT

Jimmy Fallon and Ben Stiller perform "Speak for Yourself," their 90s teen drama.
Seth Meyers chats with "Saturday Night Live's" Bobby Moynihan, who talks about how he came up with Tom Hanks' iconic "David S. Pumpkins" sketch.
More videos (1 of 9)

Link to this video

'Late Night': Checking in With Rep. Dana Rohrabacher of Calif.

UP NEXT

Seth Meyers takes a break from breaking news to talk about Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., and his relationship with Russia.
Taylor Swift performs at DIRECTV NOW Super Saturday Night Concert at Club Nomadic on Saturday, Feb. 4, 2017 in Houston, Texas.
(Photo by John Salangsang/Invision/AP)

"Haters gonna hate," as the song goes.
But whose song is it?
Taylor Swift is being sued in federal court in Los Angeles, with the songwriters behind the 2001 3LW recording called "Playas Gon' Play" arguing that she lifted lyrics from the tune for her 2014 smash hit "Shake it Off."
According to the copyright infringement lawsuit, songwriters Sean Hall and Nathan Butler contend their 2001 song includes the lyrics "Playas, they gonna play, and haters, they gonna hate."
Compare that with Swift's "Shake it Off" lyrics: "Cause the players gonna play, play, play, play, play and the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate."
Hall and Butler contend their copyrighted material accounts for about 20 percent of "Shake it Off," and they want compensation.
The lawsuit seeks unspecified damages, but it notes that Swift's tune has sold more than 9 million copies and the video for the song has nearly 2.4 billion views on YouTube.
"The combination of playas/players playing along with hatas/haters hating may seem like common parlance today, however, in 2001 it was completely original and unique," according to the lawsuit.
"Indeed, the combination had not been used in popular culture prior to plaintiffs' original use."
Swift's representatives have written off the lawsuit, issuing a statement saying, "This is a ridiculous claim and nothing more than a money grab.
The law is simple and clear.
They do not have a case."
According to the lawsuit, Hall has written and produced songs for artists including Justin Bieber, Color Me Badd, 98 Degrees, Lionel Richie, Pink and Maroon 5.
Butler, meanwhile, has worked with artists such as Luther Vandross, Victoria Beckham, Christina Milian, Backstreet Boys and Aaron Carter, according to the lawsuit.
Host of the upcoming morning show "Megyn Kelly TODAY," Megyn Kelly made her first appearance on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on Wednesday.
Kelly spoke candidly about her decision to leave the Fox after cable news primetime coverage became politically focused and "felt like a snake pit."
She also told DeGeneres President Trump helped solidify some of her life choices and revealed shes trying to keep an open mind waiting for him to become a unifying force.
Plus, Kelly discussed the format of her new NBC morning show.
Evie Clair returned to "America's Got Talent" on Tuesday and sang "What a Wonderful World," dedicating it to her late father, who died in early September.
"My dad taught me, after I started something, to always finish it," she said on the show.
"That's why I'm fighting to the end, just like he did."
The story of the 13-year-old and her father has been part of her journey on the show since she auditioned back in June.
During that audition, she sang "Arms" by Christina Perri, saying it was the tune she'd croon to her father Amos, who was battling colon cancer.
"Say a prayer, a prayer on forever Time is only now, Soon we'll be together."
I hope I made you proud, Daddy.
I've always done it for you and I'll do it for you forever.
A post shared by Evie Clair (@evieclair) on Sep 7, 2017 at 10:58pm PDT This week has been the best and worst week of my life.
I'm so grateful for the memories I've made with my family in the past year and a half.
I'm so grateful for my dad being such a great example of faith and strength.
He has endured so much and all that pain has finally come to an end.
He is in a place "12 gazillion" times better than this and I know he is so happy there.
Thank you to all the people who have supported my family along this journey.
I love you all.
I'll miss you so much, Daddy.
Thanks for teaching me to love salsa and chicken wings and most of all the Lord.
Love you lots.
RIP: 9/7/17 A post shared by Evie Clair (@evieclair) on Sep 7, 2017 at 6:40pm PDT

"When my dad is having rough days, then I go into his room and I sing this song to help him feel better and just to give him comfort and strength to continue fighting," she said then.
There was some doubt as to whether Clair would return to finish the competition after her father's death, but in the end the young woman came back and gave it her all with the Louis Armstrong classic.
Her performance brought the audience to tears and got a standing ovation from both the crowd and judges.
"Our hearts and our souls go out to you, Evie," said judge Howie Mandel after the performance, reported Entertainment Tonight.
"I know that your father passed this week, and I cannot believe the strength that I'm seeing in such a beautiful young girl."
But we don't know how Clair's story ends just yet: the "AGT" finals results show airs Wednesday night, Sept. 20 at 8 p.m. on NBC.
Kevin Hart and his wife Eniko Parrish are putting up a united front amid his alleged extortion scandal.
A source tells E!
News Parrishwho is pregnant with Hart's third childhas accepted her husband's apology and plans to move forward with him as a couple.
"Eniko is aware of what's going on and that Kevin is not perfect," the insider explained.
"She has accepted his apology and is focused on her pregnancy and what's to come.
She has no plans for divorce.
She believes Kevin is a good husband and always comes home to her."
The biggest issue Parrish is struggling with is the massive amount of media coverage the scandal has gained.
"She is bothered that these stories find their way into the press and that people are asking her about it," the source said.
"But she does her best to ignore it all and move forward.
She listens to her husband and is not going to get stressed out.
She is supporting him and standing by him."
The couple have since been spotted together, enjoying lunch in Los Angeles.
Sending so many apologies to my wife & kids.
I gotta do better and I will.
I'm not perfect and have never claimed to be ...I love you all.
A post shared by Kevin Hart (@kevinhart4real) on Sep 16, 2017 at 4:07pm PDT

Hart took to Instagram on Saturday to publicly apologize to his pregnant wife and his two children, Heaven and Hendrix Hart, after finding out about the alleged extortion regarding an explicit video of the comedian with another woman.
"I'm at a place in my life where I feel like I have a target on my back and because of that, I should make smart decisions.
And recently, I didn't," he shared in the video.
"You know, I'm not perfect.
I'm not going to sit up here and say that I am or claim to be in any way shape or form."
Hart continued, "I made a bad error in judgment and I put myself in a bad environment where only bad things can happen and they did.
And in doing that, I know that I'm going to hurt the people closest to me, who've I talked to and apologized to, that would be my wife and my kids."
According to TMZ, an anonymous person contacted Hart's team and provided a video of the comedian and another woman involved in a "sexually provocative situation."
The person allegedly demanded a multi-million dollar amount in return for keeping the video private.
While TMZ reports that the FBI is on the case and has a suspect, a spokesperson told E!
News, "We cannot confirm or deny the existence of an investigation."
Furthermore, the Los Angeles Police Department told us they are unaware of the situation.
Hart's rep released a statement to us, further clarifying the situation: "Someone tried to set Kevin up in a failed extortion attempt.
As law enforcement is involved, we cannot comment further as it could affect the investigation."
Kevin James and Jimmy Fallon compete in the "Tonight Show" Fall Classic, taking turns doing their best pratfalls in different categories, like tripping up and then falling down a set of stairs.
Thrillist has ranked the top burgers in America and New Yorkers have a number to choose from.
(Published Friday, May 26, 2017)

13 of the 100 Best Burgers in America Are Right in Your Backyard

Attention, Cheeseburgers lovers!
Monday is National Cheeseburger Day and restaurants across the country are serving up tasty deals in honor of the national holiday.
Here are 10 deals for you:



Burger King  2 for $6 Whopper mix and match

BJs Restaurant and Brewhouse  Bacon Cheeseburger and Fries for $9.99

Johnny Rockets - Free burger when you join the Rocket E-Club

DISCLAIMER:

Please read all coupon details and call your local store to make sure the offer is eligible for your location.
Treat yourself to 3 delicious desserts for dinner tonight.
(Published Friday, July 21, 2017)

Oreo is about to release a limited-edition cookie butter flavor in time for the fall season.
"Today" reports the Cookie Butter Oreos will be available in stores nationwide beginning Monday.
Wild Food Crazes: Fireball Whiskey Bagel

The actual cookies are graham-flavored, and the cream filling is cookie butter-flavored.
"Today" notes the popularity of cookie butter has skyrocketed in the past few years, particularly among the Trader Joe's set addicted to cult-favorite Speculoos Cookie Butter.
(Trader Joe's, incidentally, has its own version of the cookie butter cookie.)
A listing for Cookie Butter Oreo sandwiches on sites like Target confirm the existence of the cookies -- though they're not available to order just yet.
Helll Yeah!!
Cookie Butter Oreo's have made it to Target's webpage,they are currently unavailable because the official drop is Monday, now due to different DSD delivery zones they might start popping up this weekend, I am not sure if they are Target exclusive yet.
Who is hyped for these?
I know I am I will keep you guy's posted on more new Oreo's to come soon A post shared by Markie (@markie_devo) on Sep 12, 2017 at 4:48pm PDT

In the meantime, Oreo's fall favorite flavors are still being sold: apple pie, pumpkin spice, mocha, red velvet and even orange-flavored Halloween.
There's are also the salted caramel and coconut Oreo thins.
Grab your scarves and pumpkin-flavored everything, New Yorkers!
Autumn is almost here and New York is brimming with events celebrating food, art, nature and culture.
From food festivals and Halloween parades, to art fairs and scenic hikes, there is no shortage of fun things to do this season.
We've found 15 great events happening in and around the Big Apple this fall.
Taste Some of the Best Street Food in NYC at the Vendy Awards



Find out for yourself which publicly nominated vendor is the best by sampling unlimited food and beer at the 13th annual street food competition.
(Sept. 16) Price: $100

2.
Unite with Bookworms and World-Renowned Authors at the Brooklyn Book Festival

You might bump into your favorite author at the Brooklyn book festival, the largest free literary event in New York.
From international stars to emerging authors, this festival is book lovers dream.
(Sept. 17) Price: Free

3.
Enjoy a Day Full of Beer, Music, Science and Art at the New York Botanical Gardens Blues, Brew, and Botany

Sample beer, listen to music and learn from experts about the science behind it all while taking in views of CHIHULY sculptures in a garden landscape.
(Sept. 23-24) Price: Non-Members $43, Members $15

4.
View Artwork From Around the World in a Historical Setting at the 10th Annual Governor's Island Art Fair

Featuring works of 100 carefully selected artists from around the world, this unique art fair encourages conversation between artists and visitors.
It was originally launched by 4heads, an artist-run non-profit organization that recognized the cultural importance of Governors Island.
(Weekends from Sept. 2 - Oct. 1) Price: Free

5.
Enjoy Everything Vegan at the New York Vegan Food and Drink Festival

You may not realize the cheese isnt real!
Even non-vegans can enjoy this vegan food festival, featuring 100 of the top local and international vendors.
Attendees should expect the very best comfort food, wine, beer and more--all 100 percent vegan.
(Oct. 1) Price: $10

6.
Celebrate All Things Fall at the Kickoff to Fall at Queens County Farms

Nothing says fall more than fresh apple cider, pumpkin patches and a home-baked pie.
Celebrate the start of autumn with the whole family at Queens County Farm, where you can listen to live country music, get lost in the Amazing Maize Maze and pick your favorite pumpkin.
(Oct. 1) Price: Free

7.
Experiance Munich in NYC at Oktoberfest

You dont have to travel across the country to enjoy authentic German beer, live music and everything that makes the genuine Oktoberfest atmosphere.
You can experience it right here in New York, with some of the best food and steins while taking in breathtaking skyline views of the city.
(Sept. 15 - Oct. 2) Price: Free

8.
Enjoy a Great Meal With an Even Better View at Rooftop Reds' Harvest Dinner

The only thing better than a delicious meal and good wine is delicious meal and good wine with a gorgeous view.
New York City's only rooftop vineyard is hosting a farm-to-table Harvest Dinner on Sunday, Sept. 16 at 6:30 p.m.
The event includes a wine reception and a four-course dinner with wine pairings for each course.
(Sept. 17 at 6:30 p.m.) Price: $150

9.
Eat and Drink Wine For a Good Cause During The New York City Wine and Food Festival

Imagine drinking the finest wine and indulging in delicious dishes made by celebrity chefs while simultaneously helping end world hunger.
This Food Network- and Food & Wine Magazine- sponsored event donates all proceeds to charity and has raised millions for those in need.
All you have to do is eat and drink all you can.
(Oct. 12 - 15) Price: $40-$300

10.
But First, Coffee..and Then Some More at the New York Coffee Festival

The New York Coffee festival gives you unlimited access to more than 100 exhibitors, along with interactive workshops, seminars and demonstrations from world-class baristas.
Enjoy multiple cups of joe, live music, art exhibitions and street food at this festival that donates all profits to Project Waterfall, an organization bringing clean water to coffee-producing countries.
(Oct. 13 - 15) Price: $24.50

11.
See New York Like You've Never Seen it Before at the Open House New York

Open House New York provides the public with access to extraordinary architecture and off-limits sites just for the weekend.
Open House New York celebrates the planning and urban design of the city as well as the people who help build and preserve it.
(Oct. 14 and 15) Price: Free

12.
Enjoy Cider All Over the City During New York City Cider Week

Enjoy fresh craft cider at your favorite restaurant, bars and retail shops all across New York City.
Cider Week also includes free tastings, dinners and classes.
(Oct. 20 - 29)

13.
Watch Hundreds of Dogs All Dressed Up at the NYC Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade

You might find a princess Pomeranian or a rock-star Rottweiler at the countrys largest Halloween Dog Parade.
If a park full of dogs doesn't sounds irresistible enough, this community fundraiser will have a runway competition and the winner will receive thousands of dollars in prizes.
(Oct. 21) Price: Free, Suggested donation is $5

14.
Step into an Immersive Photographic Village at Photoville

Freight containers were transformed into into galleries to make this one of a kind photo festival.
Featuring indoor and outdoor exhibitions, the event includes talks, hands-on workshops, nighttime programming, a beer garden, food vendors, picturesque views of the city and more.
(Sept. 13 - 17 and 21 - 24) Price: Free

15.
Make a Statement at the NYC Village Halloween Parade

Put on your boldest makeup, craziest wig or spookiest outfit!
The 44th New York City Village Halloween parade invites only those in costume to an unforgettable night featuring hundreds of giant puppets, more than 50 bands, dancers, artists and thousands of New Yorkers showing off their own unique and creative disguise.
(Oct. 31) Price: Free
On Sept. 15, 1954, photographer Sam Show captured the iconic "flying skirt" image of Marilyn Monroe.
It was on Lexington Avenue between 52nd and 53rd streets, part of a film shoot for "The Seven Year Itch."
Many have not seen the movie.
The entire world has seen the photo.
The world lost Monroe on Aug. 5, 1962.
Born Norma Jean Baker, she was perhaps the world's favorite sex symbol, with a mixture of sensuality and innocence.
She died at age 36 in her Brentwood home from a drug overdose.
Her life was short, but Monroe will live on forever as a global icon.
Take a look back at her life and career in photos.
Going to the movies in North Jersey just got a whole lot fancier.
AMC Theatres has opened a new, Ultra Lux dine-in theater in Hackensack, New Jersey, at The Shops at Riverside.
AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 opened Wednesday at the upscale shopping center.
The theater is the first of its kind for AMC.
It features reclining seats, cocktails and the option to have a variety of foods delivered right to your seat.
And were not talking about popcorn and hot dogs.
Wedge lettuce cups, poutine and sushi rolls are just a few of the items on the menu.
Tickets will run you between $14.42 and $16.02 depending on the time of day.
The new dine-in theater isnt the first for North Jersey.
iPic Hudson Lights opened in Fort Lee last year.
Take a look inside AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 below.
Take a look inside North Jersey's fanciest new movie theater.
Courtesy: AMC Theatres
Actor couple Emily Blunt and John Krasinski bought a stunning townhouse in Park Slope less than a year ago.
As of this week, the 5,200-square-foot, seven-bedroom haven is back on the market.
And according to Curbed, it looks even more glorious than it did when they purchased it for $6 million in October.
The property at 586 4th Street is listed by Corcoran agents Karen Talbott and Kyle Talbott for $8 million.
You can see the full listing here.
Take a look inside.
Emily Blunt's Brooklyn home is on the market.
Nothing says fall fun like a day apple picking with the family.
Whether you're in it for the foliage, the hay rides or the apple cider donuts, there are plenty of great farms and orchards in the tri-state area to choose from.
Below is a look at 11 great options:

Apply picking season is upon us.
Here's three simple tips from an expert for avoiding a bad apple.
In video games, Mario, the intrepid princess-saving plumber, does not usually pair up with anyone outside of the Mushroom Kingdom.
There are exceptions for special events, like Mario teaming up with Sonic the Hedgehog for the Olympics, but generally, the most iconic video game character doesnt use backup.
Until now.
The Mushroom Kingdom is in danger from an outside force in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, a new video game for the Nintendo Switch gaming console.
Mario and friends are getting help from the Rabbids, crazy rabbit-like creatures who speak in gibberish, yelling "BWAAAH!"
very often, from another gaming company, Ubisoft.
Creative director Davide Soliani said he and his team wanted to bring something to the Mario universe of games that no one had seen before, and using the Rabbids and their penchant for chaos and slapstick violence provided the perfect injection of new ideas for a bold take on Mario.
He said there is a familiarity in the overall look and feel of the game, but surprises are waiting around every corner.
We used these contrasts as a focus to bring new ideas, new game mechanics, new environments, and thats why you are in the Mushroom Kingdom, but it is twisted, Soliani said.
Mario is very well known as a hero, a brave guy.
And the Rabbids are quite the opposite, quite different.
How cool it could be if Mario, throughout the game, teaches to the Rabbids how to become heroes?
And Mario learns from the Rabbids how to crack a joke, to take it easy.
Mario is joined by his friends Princess Peach (no rescuing needed this time), Yoshi, and Luigi.
They team up with four Rabbid heroes who mimic their Nintendo idols, taking costumes to look like the original gang.
In the campaign, these characters will form teams of three to find a way to fix the Mushroom Kingdom by visiting different worlds and battling enemies.
We wanted make something that Mario players would recognize, like jumping and stomping, Soliani said.
But at the same time, we were using the Rabbids to inject in those mechanics new ways to spice up the combat, new ways to spice up the Nintendo characters as well.
The development team at Ubisoft specialized in tactical and strategic games.
Making a new game with such beloved characters presented challenges, but Soliani said a turn-based strategy shooter made the most sense to maximize the divergent ideas of gameplay and abilities in the game.
We should try to stay true to the Mario universe and mix tactical phase, combat phase, which is more in line with the Mario world, he said.
Finding treasure chests, collect coins to buy new weapons, meet new heroes and be challenged by new enemies.
When he came up with the idea for the mashup, Soliani knew he would have to not only convince his own company, Ubisoft, he would have to sway Nintendo to allow him to use their characters.
He met with Shigeru Miyamoto, the man who created the Mario character, originally called Jumpman, in the classic video game Donkey Kong in 1981.
Solaini said presenting his idea to the most legendary game designer in the world was intimidating.
When we first presented the game to Miyamoto-san, we had only three weeks in-house to come up with a prototype.
When we presented the prototype to Miyamoto-san, he was surprised that we had, in our prototype, Mario and Luigi.
Miyamoto asked how Solaini got the character designs for Mario and Luigi in the prototype.
Solani told him his team made them from scratch for the presentation, impressing the Nintendo game designer.
Early reviews of the game have been very good, mentioning the different elements of gameplay and the creativity used to bring Mario and the Rabbids together.
The style of combat is reminiscent of another turn-based shooter, X-COM, with a variety of weapons and the use of cover for defense.
However, Solaini said their inspiration came from another popular game.
Im a big fan of X-COM, the original one from Julian Gollop and the new one from (Jake) Solomon, he said.
But our reference was not X-COM but Mario Kart.
We wanted to bring the dynamics, the surprise that you have in go-cart racing to our combat system in a strategy game.
With delightful and recognizable characters, whimsical environments and dialog, and a battle system that combines movement and shooting into strategic combat, Solaini and his team were proud of what they accomplished.
Those were the basic foundations that we built up for the rest of the game.
When we did that, we said, OK, I think we have something very strong, something that we should explore even more.
He invited all fans, including diehard Nintendo fans, to experience something different.
Mario+Rabbids: Kingdom Battle is available now for the Nintendo Switch.
It is rated E+10 for everyone 10 years of age or older due to cartoon violence, comic mischief, and mild language.
Sure, New York City may not be known for its barbecue.
The city is more synonymous with pizza, bagels and pastrami sandwiches, but that doesn't mean you can't find any good barbecue here.
We took a look at check-in app Foursquare Swarm to see which barbecue joints diners visit the most in NYC.
To be clear, these are not necessarily the 11 best barbecue restaurants in the city, just the most popular, according to Foursquare.
Anthony "The Big Cheese" Mongiello helps you to make the most of your summer barbecue.
Cyndi Lauper appears to have dropped the asking price for her gorgeous home in Stamford, Connecticut, from $1.25 million to $935,000, according to the updated listing.
The French Country Colonial-style estate sits on the 1.58-acre property.
The 3885-square-foot home's interior was designed by Howard Kaplan, and includes three bedrooms, three-and-a-half bathrooms and three fireplaces.
Designer Vince Camuto, founder of Nine West, built the house in 1975.
Then, the house was assessed at $601,290.
See the listing.
The Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation is releasing hundreds of photos of New York City by the artist Carole Teller, who has lived in the East Village since the early 1960s.
The photos, which span the early 1960s to the early 1990s, capture a city undergoing immense change.
Greenwich Village, the Lower East Side and other neighborhoods are brought to life in Teller's photos.
Her street scenes encapsulate a bygone era and her portraits offer glimpses into the lives of people who have long since moved on.
The GVSHP plans to release more than 500 photos by Teller in the coming weeks and months.
You can find more of her photos on the GVSHP website.
NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but New Yorkers are still preparing for the solar eclipse.
Katherine Creag reports.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017)

What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21

At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now

Watch live eclipse coverage from across the nation here starting at 12 p.m.
New Yorkers are searching high and low for a pair of specialty sunglasses affixed with a solar filter ahead of Mondays much-anticipated Great American Eclipse.
Thousands of glasses have been delivered to stores in the city, but many of them have been scooped up in recent days, leaving last-minute searchers scrambling.
A long line of people formed outside of Adorama in Chelsea on Sunday afternoon.
Photo credit: @GhostLeeOne/Twitter

Photos posted to social media on Sunday showed block-long lines of people hoping to bag a pair.
One of the longest lines was at Adorama in Chelsea.
The Great American Eclipse is already being overshadowed by the line to get a pair of solar eclipse glasses for The Great American Eclipse, @NYAdventureClub posted to Twitter along with a photo of a line.
Partial eclipse of the line @adorama for eclipse glasses, Eric McClure tweeted.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos





At B&H in Midtown, there was a long line of people picking up online orders of the glasses.
The store was out of glasses for walk-in shoppers.
Multiple Best Buy stores in Manhattan and Queens had voice messages that said they too were sold out of the glasses.
Where, When and What to Wear?
Eclipse Questions Answered

Where to watch, when to watch and what to wear on your eyes for the eclipse Monday.
(Published Sunday, Aug. 20, 2017)

Some people are hoping to grab a pair at libraries or viewing parties during the eclipse on Monday.
Others plan to make their own pair using online tutorials.
"I'm going to make the little box, like you know, the little shoe box thing with the pinhole," Cynthia Webb said.
No matter what, its important not to view the sun without proper protection.
How to Protect Your Eyes During Solar Eclipse

Come Monday, eyes will be on the sky to witness a rare solar eclipse.
In the tri-state, it won't be a total eclipse but people could still be risking their vision.
Roseanne Colletti has more.
(Published Wednesday, Aug. 16, 2017)

Meanwhile, many people have made plans to attend a viewing party or to step outside at 2:44 p.m. for the maximum eclipse.
"I think I'll just try to find the tallest building I could go up in," Keenan Brooks said.
Customers of the Lovage Rooftop NYC on 40th Street can buy eclipse glasses with a cocktail, that is, if they don't sell out.
"We are 37 flights up in New York City in the middle of Midtown West."
manager Lindsay Benjamin said.
Over at the Haven Rooftop on 47th Street, Manager Monica Seo said she's got a long list of reservations for Monday.
If you're still planning your day, here are some of the places where you might be able to score solar eclipse glasses.
And here are some locations in the tri-state where you can watch the historic event.
Where to watch, when to watch and what to wear on your eyes for the eclipse Monday.
Where, When and What to Wear?
Your Eclipse Questions Answered

What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21

At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now

On Monday, August 21, hundreds of millions of people will get a chance to view the first total solar eclipse visible from the contiguous United States in nearly 40 years.
Here are some of the most asked questions about the historic event.
Whats the gist of Monday's solar eclipse?
Fourteen states are in the path of totality, called umbra.
The New York region will be experiencing a partial eclipse, or penumbra.
You can see a partial eclipse, where the moon covers only a part of the sun, anywhere in North America.
To see a total eclipse, where the moon fully covers the sun for a short few minutes, you must be in the path of totality.
The path of totality is a relatively thin ribbon  around 70 miles wide  that will cross the United States from West to East.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos

When and where will the eclipse be viewable?
The first point of contact will be at Lincoln Beach, Oregon, at 12:05 p.m. EDT.
Totality begins there at 1:16 p.m. EDT.
Over the next hour and a half, the eclipse will cross through Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, Montana, Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and North and South Carolina.
The total eclipse will end near Charleston, South Carolina, at 2:48 p.m. EDT.
From there the lunar shadow leaves the United States at 4:09 EDT.
Its longest duration will be near Carbondale, Illinois, where the sun will be completely covered for two minutes and 40 seconds.
10 Things To Know About the Upcoming Solar Eclipse

How many people will be able to see the eclipse?
An estimated 500 million people will be able to observe the total solar eclipse, in partial or total form: 391 million in the United States; 35 million in Canada; 119 million in Mexico; it will also be viewable in Central America, parts of South America and northwestern Europe.
When was the last total eclipse in the continental United States, and when is the next one after this year's?
The last time the contiguous United States saw a total eclipse was in February 1979.
The next one is in April 2024.
7 Total Eclipse Driving Tips

Driving while the total solar eclipse is happening on August 21?
Here are seven tips that will ensure your safety while driving.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017)

Who is capturing the eclipse?
Eleven spacecraft, at least three NASA aircraft, more than 50 high-altitude balloons, and the astronauts aboard the International Space Station are all offering a unique vantage point for the celestial event.
Where can I get special glasses to view the eclipse with?
A number of retail chains are selling official eclipse eyewear; among them are: 7-Eleven, Best Buy, Bi-Mart, Caseys General Store, Circle K, Hobby Town, Kirklands, Kroger, London Drugs, Loves Travel Stops, Lowes, Maverik, Pilot/Flying J, Toys R Us, and Walmart.
Libraries across the country are also giving away free eclipse glasses with support from NASA, Google, the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, and the Space Science Institutes STAR_Net initiative.
More than 2 million ISO-compliant solar eclipse glasses have been handed out to more than 6,900 libraries.
To find out which libraries are holding eclipse-related events and distributing the free glasses, see the library map on the STAR_Net website.
Are there any basic safety tips while watching the eclipse?
Eclipse glasses are an essential tool, but unfortunately some aren't safe to use, so you shouldn't use any eclipse glasses that haven't been verified as safe or properly certified (Amazon has recalled some).
Make sure the certified glasses youre using havent been damaged.
It's also important not to look at the eclipse with regular sunglasses or unfiltered binoculars, through a reflection, or through clouds or fog.
Phones and cameras need special solar filters or the eclipse could damage their lenses.
What are other ways to view the eclipse?
Trees with a lot of leaves will project the eclipse onto the ground.
Its one way you can view the eclipse without special glasses.
How to Protect Your Eyes During Solar Eclipse

Come Monday, eyes will be on the sky to witness a rare solar eclipse.
In the tri-state, it won't be a total eclipse but people could still be risking their vision.
Roseanne Colletti has more.
(Published Wednesday, Aug. 16, 2017)

When is the best time to view Mondays eclipse?
In the greater New York area, the eclipse begins at 1:23 p.m. on Monday, August 21, according to Andrew Yolleck, a STEM educator at Liberty Science Center in Jersey City.
This is when the moon starts passing over the sun.
Maximum eclipse will occur at about 2:44 p.m. and thats the time to best view the eclipse.
Its also when it will be darkest outside.
The moon will slowly move off of the sun after that, with the eclipse ending at 4 p.m. As of Friday, the weather looks good for viewing, with mostly clear skies in the forecast for the New York area.
Where is the best place to view the eclipse in the tri-state?
How dark will these areas get?
Areas further south in the tri-state will get the best view.
The southern tip of New Jersey, near Cape May, will see the moon covering 75 to 85 percent of the sun since the area is closest to the path of totality, which is cutting through the Southern states.
Areas closer to New York City will see about 71 percent of the moon covering the sun, according to Yolleck.
During maximum eclipse, it will be darkest in the areas further south.
In areas in the path of totality, it will be as dark as night for a couple of minutes.
In the New York City area it will still be light outside, although somewhat darker.
Here are some places to catch a glimpse of the eclipse in the tri-state area.
5 Things You Need to Know About the Total Solar Eclipse

A total solar eclipse is going to be visible across parts of the U.S. this August.
But what is a total solar eclipse, exactly?
When was the last time one happened?
What should you look for?
Find out all that and more.
(Published Thursday, Aug. 17, 2017)

Will the 2024 eclipse be visible in the New York region?
The next total solar eclipse will be great for East Coasters.
While people in the New York area will see about 70 to 75 percent of the sun covered on Monday, it will be even more than that in 2024.
Whats more, the path of totality  where viewing of the eclipse is most optimal  will be closer to the tri-state area.
People who travel Upstate or to cities like Buffalo will get a near-optimal view of the eclipse, according to Yolleck.
And those willing to head near the United States-Canada border, to places like Burlington, Vermont, will enter the path of totality.
Derek Jeter's wife has given birth to a baby girl, the Yankees say.
(Published Friday, Aug. 18, 2017)

Derek Jeter is now the proud father of a beautiful baby girl, according to the Yankees.
The Yankees tweeted congrats to the 42-year-old former shortstop and his wife, Hannah, on the birth of their daughter Bella Raine Jeter Friday afternoon.
"We can't wait to meet her!"
the tweet said.
The Players Tribune -- a sports journalism site founded by Jeter  echoed the Bronx Bombers' congratulations to the couple.
The tweet said the baby was born Thursday.
The celebrity couple hasn't commented yet.
Hannah Jeter announced in February on The Players Tribune that the couple was expecting.
In that February post, Hannah Jeter said she and her husband recognized their child would be born into an "extraordinary situation," but wanted their little girl  and any possible kids beyond her  to live as normal lives as possible.
Celebrity Baby Boom: Prince William, Duchess Kate

"We dont want them to be defined by their dads name  for them, we want him to just be 'Dad,'" Hannah Jeter wrote.
"That will be the piece of him theyll have that the rest of the world doesnt.
It will be special, and it will be theirs."
"Well let them know that they are strong and smart, and that they can do anything they put their minds to," she added.
"I hope theyll be honest like their father.
I hope theyll be stubborn like me.
I hope that they know what they want and wont settle for less."
As for whether any kids would play baseball like their future Hall of Fame father, Hannah Jeter wrote, "We're gonna have a little talk first."
The 26-year-old fashion model and Yankee legend tied the knot in Napa last summer.
Top Celeb Pics: Milan Fashion Week
A total solar eclipse is going to be visible across parts of the U.S. this August.
But what is a total solar eclipse, exactly?
When was the last time one happened?
What should you look for?
Find out all that and more.
5 Things You Need to Know About the Total Solar Eclipse

On Monday, Aug. 21, millions of people in United States will be treated to a once-in-a-lifetime event: a total solar eclipse.
Unfortunately for New Yorkers, only a partial eclipse will be visible since the Empire State is not in the path of totality.
But that doesn't mean you can't enjoy the occasion or, at the very least, use the historic event as a good excuse to grab a drink with friends.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos

Here's a look at some places to catch the eclipse in the tri-state area (and if you don't have the special solar glasses yet, here's where you can get them before Monday):

Haven Rooftop: Enjoy the eclipse with a cocktail and a snack at Haven Rooftop, a glass enclosed rooftop bar located on top of the Sanctuary Hotel in Manhattan.
The bar will have a solar eclipse-themed cocktail named the Solar Negroni for you to sip on as you watch the eclipse.
More on Haven Rooftop here.
American Museum of Natural History: Those interested in the educational aspect of the solar eclipse can visit the American Museum of Natural Historys total solar eclipse event on Monday at the Rose Center for Earth and Space.
The afternoon will include various events before, during and after the eclipse, which will be streamed live by NASA.
More on the event here.
The Dubliner: Just steps from Hoboken Terminal, The Dubliner, will host a rooftop solar eclipse viewing party.
Attendees can grab a drink while looking at the eclipse with a pair of free glasses.
More on The Dub Pub here.
Liberty Science Center: Have questions about the eclipse that you want answered?
Liberty Science Center's STEM team will be available Monday during the science center's event Monday.
They will stream a remote broadcast of the eclipse, explain the historic event and provide the safety equipment neccessary for you to try to catch a gimpse yourself.
More on the event here.
Brooklyn Grange: Brooklyn's rooftop farm, Brooklyn Grange, is hosting a yoga retreat and viewing party for the solar eclipse.
The afternoon event includes a farm tour, yoga class and an evening cocktail.
More info on Brooklyn Grange here.
Connecticut River Solar Eclipse Cruise: Take in the partial solar eclipse on the Connecticut River on a 2-hour cruise from 1:30-3:30 p.m. Monday.
Special viewing glasses will be provided.
More on the cruise here.
Intrepid: New Yorkers have the opportunity to watch the eclipse on the flight deck of the Intrepid, free with admission.
Beginning at 12 p.m., the first 500 guests will be provided free NASA-approved glasses so they can view the eclipse safely.
More on the event here.
New York Hall of Science: In Queens, a viewing party will be held at the New York Hall of Science from 1 to 4 p.m.
Some safety glasses will be provided and shared and guests will have the opportunity to make their own pinhole projector.
More on the watch party here.
Once the eclipse happens, you will want to take a photo.
Here are some tips for safely photographing the historic event with your phone.
10 Things To Know About the Upcoming Solar Eclipse
When you bring your new shelter dog home, there are a few things you should keep in mind.
First up: learn how to read your pup's body language to know his or her mood.
Living in an apartment with your canine companion isnt much different from living with a human roommate: They don't clean, they dont pay for groceries and you're starting to suspect they don't even have a job.
But canine roommates present additional, unique challenges.
Arguably the biggest challenge for dog owners in apartments is having to escort their furry friend outside for all exercise  and all bathroom  breaks.
That means rain, shine, sleet, snow, 6 a.m. or 3 a.m. or 11:30 p.m.  buddy, youve got to put on your pants.
The Luxurious Lifestyle of New York's Poshest Pooches

Ashley and Cooper get a taste of the high life, New York style.
From a five-star hotel exclusively for dogs to a puppy pool party in the Hamptons, it's clear that NYC really has gone to the dogs!
(Published Thursday, Aug. 17, 2017)

"If youre living in an apartment with a dog, first and foremost the onus is more on you to get the dog out for all of his or her needs," says Mike Kaviani.
Kaviani is the Director of Lifesaving Operations at the no-kill shelter Austin Pets Alive!
in Austin, Texas, and he says apartment living can in some cases actually benefit your pup.
"As long as the owner is committed to getting the dog out for fun outings, the dogs actually end up getting more activity and more outings and more time with their person," he says.
Kaviani knows from personal experience: He lived in a studio apartment with the first dog he owned as an adult, and he recalls having to "leash him up and go out there."
"As long as you're willing to do that  I mean, he had so much activity."
With multiple daily outings, Kaviani realized he and his pup were both getting more activity because of their apartment lifestyle.
"So, I actually think it can be a real win for the dog," he said.
6 Health Benefits of Owning a Pet

Anthony Newman, a canine behavior consultant in New York City, echoes Kaviani on the activity level of house dogs versus that of apartment dogs.
"Often, in fact, I find dogs in suburban areas suffer from 'suburban dog syndrome,' lacking adequate socialization, exercise and leadership due to lack of regular daily owner-led walks, obedience work and daily off-leash social play in dog parks," Newman says.
He says he noticed his family's dogs, while growing up in the suburbs of St. Louis, had behavior issues stemming from lack of discipline and socialization.
"City dogs can end up being the calmest, most social, peaceful and obedient dogs around," Newman noted.
No matter how committed you are to your apartment dog, however, you're going to have to leave him or her alone sometimes.
And since apartments do not have doggie doors, your pup can't just stroll outside for business purposes.
If you know that you wont be able to get back to walk your pup at the usual time, thats fine  you can hire a professional or convince a trusted neighbor to come by to walk your dog.
There is likely a dog-walking service of some kind in your neighborhood  research online and ask other dog owners in the area to find a service that works for you.
Try to meet the person wholl be walking your dog if theyre going to be doing so on a regular basis.
6 Free Apps for Pet Owners



You should also give a trusted person in your building a set of your keys; if youre away and the building needs to be evacuated for any reason, youll want someone to help get your pup out, too.
Speaking of neighbors, they present another significant difference between apartment dog life and house dog life.
You should make an effort to introduce your dog to your apartment neighbors, especially those who live on your floor and those directly above you and below you.
Its also a good idea to introduce yourself to anyone in your building with young children  you can let parents know whether your dog is cool with kids.
Make clear to your neighbors what your dog's boundaries are, and be consistent in your interactions with them.
Another thing about apartment neighbors is their physical proximity to you.
It's important to remember that dogs are not silent.
Barking is not the only noise dogs make  they like to play, to run around and toss and catch.
And its fine to play those games indoors with your dog, but if you have people below you, just keep in mind what time of day or night it is when you break out that hard plastic toy your dog likes to throw against the floor.
If your floors arent carpeted, getting an area rug (probably not an expensive one) will help muffle noises for people below and will also help protect hardwood floors from scuffing.
Tips for Keeping Your Pet Safe in the Summer Heat

With record temperatures around the country, it is important to keep your dogs in mind when it comes to keeping cool.
Check out these tips for keeping your pets safe in the heat.
(Published Friday, Aug. 4, 2017)

If your dog reacts to your absence by barking herself hoarse while you are gone, this is a problem (unless you never leave, but that actually sounds like a different kind of problem).
Not only will this incessant row irritate your neighbors  maybe enough to complain to your landlord  its also a sign that your pup isnt able to relax when you go out to do the human stuff you have to do.
"Separation anxiety," says Newman, can be a problem for your nervous pet, and then for you and even your neighbors  some dogs bark, or whine, to express their anxiety.
To help curb some of that separation anxiety, Newman emphasizes the importance of creating a calm, relaxing space for your pup within your apartment.
If she views the apartment as the place where you and she play around and have fun  and not as the place where you do that AND the place where she hangs out and sleeps in her own bed  "when you leave, [s]he barks and tears the place up.
Also guarding, digging, chewing, and other destructive behaviors" can present as symptoms of separation anxiety.
How to Train Your Dog Like a Pro

The most important thing to know about training your new pup, according to Petco dog trainer Chloe Sternlicht, is that dogs respond best to positive reinforcement.
So be patient when Fido makes a mistake and smother him with praise and treats when he get it right.
Sternlicht gives some tips for getting your dog to respond to basic commands.
(Published Monday, July 24, 2017)

Newman says to help your dog get accustomed to chilling solo in a new living environment, it's best to make sure your pet's "exhausted and fulfilled mentally, physically and socially, and feeling comfortable at home with her bed, toys and chews" before leaving her alone in the place.
Kaviani recommends teaching your dog new tricks or providing them with brain-stimulating puzzle toys indoors to keep them entertained in the smaller space.
So, if you've got an apartment but want a dog, or if you've got a dog but want to move into an apartment, you should start by considering your dog's needs and temperament, Kaviani says.
"If the dog can handle being in an elevator with strange people, and sometimes strange dogs," he shouldn't have an unusually rough time adapting to apartment lifestyle.
Tips for Keeping Your Pet Safe in the Summer Heat

With record temperatures around the country, it is important to keep your dogs in mind when it comes to keeping cool.
Check out these tips for keeping your pets safe in the heat.
(Published Friday, Aug. 4, 2017)

"Where it can go poorly, or where youll find some challenges, though, would be if the context or living environment isnt conducive to the dogs needs," says Kaviani.
He cautions that if you have a dog with some shyness or some fearful behavior, they may not be comfortable hopping in and out of elevators or winding their way through crowded hallways and staircases.
You should do your best to find a living space that won't cause too much additional stress on your pet.
But, he says, "don't overthink it."
"Dogs dont need a mansion to live in.
They dont need a certain amount of square footage to meet their standards.
Really, when theyre home, they just want to chill with you, their person."
The living arrangement would only become a problem, he says, if your work or life schedule isn't "conducive to spending a good amount of time with your dog."
Retriever Fever: America's Most Popular Dogs, in Photos

Apartment living with your dog requires a more serious commitment than living with your dog in a house with a fenced-in yard.
Anthony Newman's tips for moving yourself and your dog(s) to a new apartment:
Ashley and Cooper get a taste of the high life, New York style.
From a five-star hotel exclusively for dogs to a puppy pool party in the Hamptons, it's clear that NYC really has gone to the dogs!
Copyright LXTV
Driving while the total solar eclipse is happening on August 21?
Here are seven tips that will ensure your safety while driving.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017)

What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21

At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now

If you're hoping to view the total solar eclipse coming up Monday, you're going to need a pair of specialty sunglasses affixed with a solar filter.
But -- as we mentioned -- that eclipse is coming up Monday.
That means you have just one day to score a pair if you haven't yet.
And they've been notoriously difficult to nab.
Here are a few options in the city, but you should call first to make sure they're still in stock (and if you're not sure where to get the best view in the tri-state, here are a list of spots):

GO TO THE LIBRARY



Check your local library branch.
STAR_Net, a national science and technology resource for libraries, sent millions of eclipse glasses to libraries across the country, including some in New York.
Branches in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, Pelham Bay, Bronx and Glendale, Flushing and the Rockaways in Queens are among the ones that got them, according to Curbed.
You may have to attend one of their eclipse parties to get a pair, the website says, so call in advance to doublecheck.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos

VISIT A WARBY PARKER

Eyeglass company Warby Parker is giving out free solar eclipse glasses (limit of two per person), according to Brokelyn.
The website says Warby Parker's Brooklyn location is already out of eyewear, but the company's SoHo, Meatpacking District and Upper East Side still has some (call ahead to be sure).
Eclipse Tourism: Are These Small Towns Ready?
Madras, Oregon, and hundreds of other small towns across America have suddenly become tourist destinations for next Monday's eclipse, whether they're ready for it or not.
(Published Monday, Aug. 14, 2017)

TRY A MUSEUM

The American Museum of Natural History will host a viewing party from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday.
Solar eclipse glasses will be available for purchase.
BUY ONLINE -- LIKE, NOW

Most would-be eclipse viewers will likely have more luck shopping online, assuming you can get them shipped ASAP.
Amazon still has viewing glasses in stock, but most appear to be sold in packs of five or more for around $39.
But be careful -- Amazon recalled some counterfeit solar eclipse glasses earlier in the week.
According to a company spokesperson, people who purchased the counterfeit glasses have been notified and will receive refunds.
Despite the recall, there are plenty of brands on Amazon and other shopping websites with the appropriate ISO certification for standardized products.
The American Astronomical Society maintains a list of reputable vendors for glasses with the appropriate filter.
Official glasses should have language printed on them indicating they were built to "conform to the transmission requirements of ISO 12312-2" and "Filter for Direct Observation of the Sun."
IF ALL ELSE FAILS

NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory has a guide to making your own pinhole camera for safely viewing the solar eclipse.
All you'll need is two pieces of white card stock, aluminum foil, tape and a pin or paper clip.
Lehigh Valley amusement park Dorney Park and Wildwater Kingdom is offering parents a way to save some cash.
Kids between the ages of 3 and 5 years old will get into the park for free for the rest of this year and all next year.
All they need is a Pre-K pass.
Summer is coming to an end, but that doesnt mean the fun has to!
Dorney Park & Wildwater Kingdom are letting kids ages three to five in FOR FREE.
This special is a new type of season pass titled the Pre-K Pass that allows kids of the right age to go to the park for free for the rest of the 2017 season as well as the full 2018 season.
Were introducing the Pre-K Pass to help families with young children more easily and affordably enjoy everything that Dorney Park has to offer," said Mike Fehnel, Dorney Park vice president and general manager.
The average daily admission price for a child ages three to five is about $40.
Fehnel says the new pass is a benefit to the whole family.
The Pre-K Pass allows parents to save money as the entire family experiences not only the kids' rides in Planet Snoopy but also roller coasters, thrill rides, shows and our fantastic water park," he said.
To ensure your kids get in free for the rest of the current season as well as the next, be sure to register between August 16 and October 29.
Registration for the pass for the 2018 season is open until May 28, 2018.
After registering for the Free 2018 Pre-K Pass, follow the directions to submit and activate the pass.
Clear the Shelters, a nationwide pet adoption drive to help animals in need finding loving homes, will take place on Saturday, August 19.
This year's event hosts, celebrity chef Katie Lee and Beth Stern, stopped by the "Today Show" to talk about the initiative.
They also brought along a few rescues from North Shore Animal League America in Port Washington, New York, who are in need of forever homes.
Stern advised potential pet parents to assess their lifestyle before going through with an adoption, noting "pethood is hard."
Nowadays, caring for your pet has never been easier and more enjoyable.
From finding a pet sitter and setting up play dates to handling medical emergencies and training your pet, theres an app for that.
Whether your looking to better fulfill your pets needs or find resources to help you with yours, these free pets apps have you covered:





Consumer Reporter Lynda Baquero has some great apps for your pets.
From taxidermy animals to trains to exhibitions that tickle your taste buds, New York City has a range of unique museums you may have never heard of.
Next time you're in the mood to visit a museum, consider some of these lesser known options.
Everybody loves a good deal, right?
And shopping for groceries is no exception.
Consumer Reports has named eight national and regional grocery chains with some of the best prices in America.
The results are based on a survey of more 50,000 Consumer Reports subscribers.
According to the survey, this is where you should shop if you are looking to get the most bang (or food) for your buck.
Take a look at Consumer Reports' complete ranking of 62 American grocery stores here.
Consumer Reports has released a list of the eight grocery chains in America with some of the best prices.
Every summer, animal shelters and rescues are filled to the brim with new spring litters and homeless pets.
Shelters run on all cylinders to match pets with new forever families.
Their efforts result in many pets finding new loving homes, but unfortunately some pets are left behind and live in shelters for months or even years until they are adopted.
Inspired by a North Texas pet adoption effort led by our Dallas NBC and Telemundo stations, all of our NBC and Telemundo-owned stations decided to step up to the plate to help their local animal shelters and communities 'Clear the Shelters' every summer.
Our Clear the Shelters pet adoption campaign has become a popular day of action for communities nationwide.
Since Clear the Shelters was expanded nationally in 2015, the efforts of our stations and partners have resulted in the adoption of more than 70,000 homeless pets.
Family from Dallas, Texas adopted their dog "Cruz" during Clear the Shelters 2016.
I am excited that Clear the Shelters will return on Saturday, August 19 to local communities all across the country and include the participation of even more animal shelters and rescue organizations.
I share my home and my life with a shelter dog.
Jack, a two-year old Shih-Tzu and Jack Russell Terrier mix that my husband and I rescued through the Animal Lighthouse Rescue was a street dog in Puerto Rico.
Jack is a great dog with a lot of love.
We rescued Jack the day after we lost our 17 year-old dog, Zach.
He helped heal us from that loss.
He is funny, sweet and loves his new life.
We couldnt be happier with him.
Courtesy: Robert Wright Valari and RC Staab with their adopted dog, Jack

Thousands of animals have found their forever homes thanks to our Clear the Shelters event.
From older dogs to kittens to rabbits to iguanas, Clear the Shelters has inspired local communities to take action and open their homes to pets in need.
Last summer, Rose" a husky with a neurological syndrome who traveled from Turkey to a shelter in Briarcliff Manor, New York found a new home while Tootsie," a senior Shih-Tzu with one eye was adopted by a family from Chicago, Illinois.
If you are considering adopting a new pet, I invite you to visit a participating Clear the Shelters animal shelter on Saturday, August 19.
You can find a list of participating shelters on ClearTheShelters.com.
Visit cleartheshelters.com to find participating animal shelters.
If you are not ready to adopt a pet, please join our social media effort to help us raise awareness about our third annual Clear the Shelters pet adoption campaign.
You can upload an image of yourself with your pet or pets using the hashtags #ClearTheShelters and #LoveMyPet and list the reasons for loving your pet.
A post shared by Mario Lopez (@mariolopezextra) on Aug 5, 2017 at 8:30am PDT

You dont need to have an adopted animal to participate.
You can simply smile, snap a photo with your favorite furry or non-furry friend, share with the world why your pet makes you happy and upload your post and photo to your social media channels.
Here is a photo of Jack!
By participating in our social media effort, you will help us spread the word about Clear the Shelters and join a chorus of voices that are speaking up for the homeless animals that are currently waiting in a shelter near you to find their new forever home.
Lets work together this Saturday, August 19 to make Clear the Shelters another successful nationwide pet adoption campaign and make change happen.
Were excited about the opportunity to help more families find a pet and give homeless pets a new chance at life.
Family from the New York area with newly adopted pets during Clear the Shelters 2015.
For more information about Clear the Shelters and to access a list of shelters that will participate in Clear the Shelters events on August 19, please visit ClearTheShelters.com.
If youd like to access the information in Spanish, please visit DesocuparLosAlbergues.com.
Thank you for your help and support and lets Clear the Shelters this Saturday, August 19th!
More than 100 Pikachus, a character from the game Pokemon, paraded through the streets of Yokohama, Japan, on Aug. 14.
Is life after "SNL" just as sweet as life on the show?
In some ways it's sweeter - or at least way more relaxing.
So then why is Rachel Dratch throwing herself into a theatrical pressure cooker on Broadway?
It has something to do with kids, pens, and Rosie Perez.
What?!
Let's let Rachel Dratch explain on "Talk Stoop."
Former "Saturday Night Live" star Rachel Dratch posted a photo on Twitter of a 20-year-old parking ticket she received this week from the City of Chicago.
"Chicago does not f around," the New York City-based comedian wrote on Twitter.
"I received this parking ticket in the mail today.
Look at date.
It's from TWENTY years ago."
The ticket was issued on Dec. 8, 1997  right around the time Dratch was a member of the Second City cast in Chicago.
Sure enough, the "offense location" is listed as 150 W. North Ave., just a block from the historic comedy club in the citys Old Town neighborhood.
NBC 5 asked the City of Chicago about the ticket's authenticity and whether there is a statute of limitations on parking violations.
A spokeswoman for the City of Chicagos Office of Budget and Management and Department of Finance, which is responsible for collecting parking and red light ticket fines, responded.
Here's what she said:

"The City sends at least five separate notifications to motorists regarding parking violations before referring a ticket to collections.
Once a ticket is in collections additional notifications are sent, and it can be re-referred to a separate collection agency to work to identify new or updated mailing information.
We followed the same process in this instance."
While a 20-year-old parking ticket sounds like it may be a plot line from Dratch's iconic "Debbie Downer" sketches, the actor will have to pay a real $73.20 fine to the city, unless she contests it.
Dratch performed on Second Citys main stage from 1995 through 1998, alongside fellow 'SNL" alum Tina Fey, according to her bio on the theaters website.
She then went on to star on "SNL" from 1999 to 2006, and has appeared in several films and television series, including Feys "30 Rock," "Bobs Burgers," "Inside Amy Schumer" and more.
The Food Network has named a burger from a Chicago restaurant as the best in the country.
(Published Monday, June 29, 2015)

Burger lovers, prepare yourselves.
One of the Midwests most popular burgers is on its way to the Big Apple.
Au Cheval, Chicagos well-loved "upscale diner," is expected to open at 79 Walker St. next summer, according to a report from the New York Times.
The restaurant's popular burger, which has been named the best in America by the Food Network, is not for the faint of heart.
It consists of either two or three patties, depending on the customer, an abundance of American cheese, pickles and a spread of dijonnaise.
If thats not enough for you, there is the option of adding peppered bacon, a fried egg or both to have the full experience.
If you were lucky, you might have tried the burger during its two-day stint at Nolitas Chefs Club last year.
The diner will reportedly have 75 seats, share its space with a coffee bar and will definitely draw crowds.
People wait for hours to try the burger in Chicago.
These 12 NYC Burgers Are Ranked Among the Best in America
There are a million reasons why people love dogs.
They make great companions, provide a slew of the health benefits and love unconditionally.
Yet, there are lots of valid reasons why some people opt out of bringing home a furry friend.
From cramped living quarters, to allergies, to busy work schedules and social lives, caring for a dog is a huge commitment, so its important to make sure your lifestyle is compatible with your four-legged friends.
Fortunately, dogs come in all shapes, sizes, personality traits and energy levels, and chances are theres a pup whos right for you.
Use the filter above to see what kind of dog could potentially match your lifestyle:

People Pet Vet: Tips for Adopting a Shelter Dog
Michael Moore keeps a flag-draped box seat open at the Belasco Theatre for President Donald Trump.
So far, the real estate entrepreneur and entertainer-turned-politician hasn't taken him up on an invitation to see "The Terms of My Surrender."
Theater hasnt been the place to find escapism this summer.
First, there was Julius Caesar, with its gory assassination of a Trump-like politician.
Then came 1984, which reminded us that Big Brother still owns a rat cage.
Now comes what may be the biggest reality-check of them all: Michael Moores The Terms of My Surrender.
In his Broadway debut, the disheveled, Oscar-winning raconteurs first words on stage are: How the (expletive) did this happen?
Its escapism you were seeking?
May I suggest you check the availability of Hello, Dolly tickets?
Directed by Michael Mayer (Hedwig), whose penchant for pizazz pairs nicely with Moores Lefties-Home-Companion storytelling style, Surrender is a slick and engaging mash-up of entertainment and politics.
Its also very much a call-to-arms for civic involvement, in a room wherethis being New York CityMoore is preaching to the more-or-less converted.
Theatergoers at the Belasco will, on arrival, notice a mezzanine box with an American flag draped beneath.
Those seats, Moore explains, are reserved for President Trump, who has yet to take him up on an offer to attend.
Moore also extends the invitation in his Playbill bio  in both English and Cyrillic.
Surrender, performed without an intermission, is sometimes, though not always, presented with celebrity guests.
Bryan Cranston was a recent visitor; U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters was another.
Structurally, its split neatly into a half-dozen or so 10 or 15 minute segments.
The Bowling for Columbine filmmaker reluctantly acknowledges the presidents popularity in an opening monologue, reminding us that The Apprentice in its heyday had roughly four times the number of viewers as does The Bachelorette today.
When there isnt a mahogany desk on stage as a prop, or a comfy leather chair, Moore stands in front of a backdrop onto which is illuminated a giant American flag.
Sometimes, a digital news ticker of President Trumps more notable soundbites is projected onto the flags stripes.
On Tuesday, the night I saw Surrender, I was impressed to catch the fire and fury quote about North Korea.
President Trump had made his statement only hours before.
An early Surrender segment has Moore dragging out his carry-on luggage to run down what he perceives as a civil rights-restricting list of TSA mandates regarding travel.
For illustrative purposes, he has most of these items in the bag, and he removes them one at a time, after tossing aside a dozen or so baseball capsa cute sight gag.
There are memoir-like retellings of the early events that shaped Moores point of view, such as the time he was elected to his local school board while still a teenager: What if all 17-year-olds knew that if they did something small, something big could happen?
On the lighter side, there is an audience-participation section in which Moore selects two ticketholders for a game of Stump the Canadian, in which he attempts to prove, quiz show-style, that the dumbest Canadian in the room is still smarter than the smartest American.
More serious segments recount a 1985 trip to Germany to protest President Reagans visit to a German military cemetery.
And theres a devastating rundown of the poisoned water horrors still unfolding in Flint, Mich., where Moore was born.
Another difficult part of the show comes when Moore recounts the death threats, and actual attempts on his life, that began after he became a public figure.
In 2005, radio host Glenn Beck contemplated over the airwaves the ways he might kill Michael Moore.
Moore asks us to consider whether we think such a thing might be legal, then stages a phone call to New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, in which he uses a script of Becks threatening words, but directed to the governor.
Moore tell us theres been no response from the governors office  yet.
If youre wondering what Moore considers the terms of his surrender, he says so toward nights end: Dump President Trump.
And dump Vice President Pence.
By its conclusion, Surrender becomes his plea to the audience to do something small, such as running for a local office, in an effort to change the countrys direction.
This is a man so comfortable with confrontation, it would be fascinating to see him take Surrender on the road.
I can think of a few places the audience wouldnt be nearly as friendly as New York, which would make for an even more electrifying event.
Unrealsitic?
Too dangerous?
Perhaps.
Meanwhile, Democrats will take comfort here ... Libertarians and Republicans, not so much.
The Terms of My Surrender, through Oct. 22 at the Belasco Theatre, 111 W. 44th St. Tickets: $29 and up.
Call 212-239-6200.
Follow Robert Kahn on Twitter@RobertKahn
After a two-year hiatus the toy emporium is returning to Times Square, at least temporarily.
(Published Thursday, Aug. 10, 2017)

What to Know Toys "R" Us shut down its flagship Times Square location in December 2015, but is returning, at least temporarily, due to customer demand

The company said the new 35,000 square-foot store will open in August at the Knickerbocker Building at 1466 Broadway

The toy store didn't say how long the new shop would stay open

After a nearly two-year absence, Toys "R" Us is returning to Times Square -- at least temporarily.
Customer demand fueled the decision to open a temporary 35,000 square-foot store at the corner of 42nd Street and Broadway, just two blocks from the flagship location at West 44th and West 45th streets that shut down Dec. 30, 2015 after 15 years of calling the intersection home.
The temporary store is scheduled to open later this month in the historic Knickerbocker Building, offering kids and families "a one-stop toy shopping experience  complete with a dedicated play area  just in time for the holiday season," Toys "R" Us said in a statement Thursday.
The three-level store will have one main entrance on Broadway and include a scaled-down animatronic dinosaur on the second floor, a nod to the huge one at the company's former Times Square location.
Customers will also find other interactive and life-size toy displays across the three-story store throughout the holiday season.
Toys "R" Us' buy online, pick-up in-store service will also be available at the 1466 Broadway location.
The toy store didn't say how long the temporary location would be open.
One of the most stressful parts of pet ownership is what to do with your four-legged companion when you travel.
While some pet owners opt for boarding, others choose to bring their furry family members along.
If youre looking to hit the road or fly the skies with your canine companion or feline friend, American Kennel Club the has some tips to make the trip as smooth as possible.
Health Checks: Bring your pet to the veterinarian for a check up before going on a long journey trip.
Make sure all vaccinations are up to date and obtain a record showing proof of up-to-date vaccinations.
Health certifications are required for airline travel.
Ask the vet about potential health risks at your destination, like Lyme disease, and what the necessary preventive measures your pet needs to take.
Crates: If traveling by car, pets should be confined to a crate or carrier in the back seat.
This will prevent distractions as well as protect the animal in the event of a collision.
It can also keep your pet from getting into trouble in a hotel or at your host's home.
Airlines also require that pets travel in a carrier or crate, whether they are flying in the cargo hold or plane's main cabin.
Contact your airline directly for information on their pet policy.
Crates are available from most pet supply stores.
Look for these features when purchasing and check out these crash-tested options:

Large enough to allow the pet to stand, turn and lie down.
Strong, with handles and grips, and free of interior protrusions.
Leakproof bottom covered with absorbent material.
Ventilation on opposing sides, with exterior rims or knobs to prevent blocked airflow.
Have Proper ID: In the event that your dog or cat slips away during the trip, you significantly increase the odds of recovery by making sure they can be properly identified.
Make sure your dog has a sturdy leash and collar.
The collar should have identification tags with the dog's name, your name, and your home phone number, as well as proof of rabies shots.
Mark your pet's crate with your name, contact number, destination phone number, and photo of your pet.
You should also carry a picture of your pet.
Consider a permanent form of identification, such as a microchip.
Traveling by car: Bringing your pet along for a road trip requires more than just throwing a crate in the back seat, especially for long distance trips or if you plan on being away for a long period of time.
Get your pet geared up by taking him on a series of short drives first, gradually lengthening time spent in the car.
Bring food, a bowl, leash, a waste scoop, plastic bags, grooming supplies, medication and first-aid, and any travel documents.
Be sure to pack plenty of bottled water, and avoid feeding your pet in a moving vehicle.
Traveling on a full stomach can also cause pets to become car sick.
Keep the car well-ventilated.
If the dog is in a crate, make sure that fresh air can flow into the crate.
Don't let pets ride cars with their heads outside the window.
Dirt and other debris can enter their eyes, ears and nose and cause injury or infection.
Make frequent stops to allow your pet to go to the bathroom and get some exercise.
Be sure to clean up after your pet.
Traveling by plane: Most airlines have their own set of rules for canine air travel.
Call ahead for information and make arrangements in advance of your trip.
A photo of Starbucks' new Horchata Frappuccino.
There are 36,000 flavors that baristas can customize Frappuccino beverages at Starbucks with, according to the company.
From unicorns to horchata.
Starbucks announced Tuesday its new Horchata Almondmilk Frappuccino is now available in participating U.S. and Canada stores, in a move that is getting a mixed reception from horchata fans.
Starbucks beverage features a combination of almond milk, cinnamon dolce syrup, coffee and ice.
It also includes whipped cream, cinnamon, sugar sprinkles and a swirl of caramel on top.
The company said their drink was inspired by the popular Horchata beverages, which vary by culture and region.
The creamy and cool texture-ideal for warm August days-is complemented by sweet caramel and warm spice flavors of cinnamon which hint that fall is near, Starbucks release said.
The drink was first offered in U.S. and Canadian stores on Aug. 8, a Starbucks spokesperson said.
While it is the first frappuccino that uses almond milk as a default milk, the drink is not dairy-free because it is topped with whipped cream and other dairy-filled products.
Eater.com notes that Americans are most familiar with the Mexican version of horchata, a rice-based drink that is also made with cinnamon and vanilla.
In fact, Starbucks first offered the Horchata Frappuccino in Mexican outposts in the summer of 2013.
But versions of horchata in Spain are made with tigernuts and horchata drinks also vary across Latin America.
In El Salvador, Nicaragua, Honduras, and Costa Rica, jicaro seeds are ground with rice and spices for a drink called semilla de jicaro.
Horchata de ajonjol in Puerto Rico is made with ground sesame seeds.
Sesame seeds are also used for a version of horchata in parts of Venezuela.
The drinks debut hasnt gone unnoticed among horchata aficionados, with some contrasting the drink to the Unicorn Frappuccino.
Starbucks has a new Frappuccino.
If you like horchata, it might make you angry, blared one headline on Miami.com.
The horchata is not some mystical, purple-haired unicorn, the post's writer Chloe Herring said.
Its a real ass drink.
It wasnt broken and it didnt need Starbucks sugary adaptation or fixing.
Latin culture site Remezla.com featured a handful of tweets that ranged from curiosity over Starbucks offering to predictions of being underwhelmed by the product.
We imagine Starbucks is riffing off of Mexican horchata and that this new drink will appeal to many taste buds, but we also believe many will stick to the horchata they already know because its already perfect, the sites writer concluded.
--Daniel Macht contributed to this story
Nearly a quarter of the best restaurants in America are in New York City, according to a food website's 2017 ranking.
The Daily Meal has released its annual list of the 101 Best Restaurants in America, and 24 of the eateries are located in the Big Apple.
Wondering what sets these restaurants above the rest?
The Daily Meal says the restaurants on this list provide dining experiences of the highest quality, a good wine and cocktail list, delicious food and consistency.
(More on the methodology here.)
To be clear, the restaurants that landed on this list are definitely upscale.
If that's not your thing, the site also released a list of the best casual restaurants in America, and New York fared pretty well in that ranking also.
Here's a look at the 24 New York City restaurants that made the list:

Twenty-four New York City restaurants have landed on The Daily Meal's list of America's 101 best restaurants.
In this Feb. 9, 2009, file photo, author Stephen King reads from his new novella "Ur" at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York City.
The house that inspired King's "Pet Sematary" in Maine is up for sale.
In the market for a haunted house?
The Orrington, Maine, home that inspired Stephen King's "Pet Sematary" is currently on sale for $255,000, 'Today' reported.
King came up with the idea for the novel in 1979 while renting the two-story house, which features wood floors, two fireplaces and new paint.
The book and subsequent movie adaptation were inspired by real events: when King's daughter's cat was run over by a truck, he buried the animal in the woods, where local kids had created a makeshift cemetery for other slain pets.
The house sits on a three-acre plot, and many rooms have a wall of windows that let in plenty of light.
This July 1, 2014, file photo shows a Moscow Mule made with ginger beer, fresh-squeezed lime juice and Hammer + Sickle imported Russian vodka in a copper cup at Anneke Jans in Kittery, Me.
The popular drink has attracted internet attention after Iowa state officials issued an advisory reminding restaurants and bars they may not serve acidic drinks, including the popular alcoholic beverage, in unlined copper mugs.
Don't worry, Moscow Mule fans: Those solid copper mugs often used to serve the popular alcoholic drink probably aren't going to kill you.
Contrary to reports last week that Iowa was banning copper mugs entirely, a state official said that restrictions apply only to restaurants and bars, who may not serve acidic liquids -- like the lime juice in Moscow Mules -- in unlined copper vessels.
"It's not that if you drink a Moscow Mule from a copper cup, you're going to die," said David Werning, a spokesperson for the Iowa Department of Inspections and Appeals.
Most commercially available copper mugs are lined with tin or stainless steel, making them safe to serve any beverage, including the popular cocktail's mix of vodka, ginger beer and lime.
The controversy began after a routine inspection of the Hy-Vee Bar and Grille in Ankeny, Iowa, when restaurant inspectors found unlined copper mugs behind the bar, according to an inspection report provided to NBC.
Because the mugs were tarnished and pitted, Werning said, the Iowa Alocholic Beverages Division issued an advisory July 28 to restaurants in the state, eventually drawing national attention.
While the advisory tells business owners that that a state code "prohibits copper from coming into direct contact with foods that have a pH below 6.0," such as fruit juice, it lacks any kind of restriction on individual consumption at home.
"The food code only governs licensed food establishments.
I know for a fact in my own family there are some copper cups," Werning said.
"What you want to do in your home kitchen or home bar is up to you."
Iowa's state code follows a model code prepared by the Food & Drug Administration -- one that has generally been adopted in every other state, Werning said.
An FDA spokesperson referred NBC to this code and declined to comment further.
Werning added that he does not recommend that people consume Moscow Mules out of unlined copper mugs, given "the science behind the food code" and the beverage's 3.5 pH.
For every kilogram of their body mass, someone would need at least 0.01 milligrams of copper in order to face a potential health risk, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
A 220-pound person, for example, would need to consume one milligram of copper to experience health effects.
It's unclear how many many Moscow Mules it would take to ingest a significant amount of copper, or how long the drink would need to sit inside an unlined mug to actually leach the metal.
Ingesting high levels of copper can cause nausea, vomiting and diarrhea, while very high doses can lead to death, according to the CDC.
It looks like former President Barack Obama's one-time Park Slope brownstone has a buyer.
The home on Second Street in Park Slope hit the market in late April for a shade over $4 million.
It was listed by Brown Harris Stevens.
The listing is now gone, but according to Streeteasy records, someone paid $4.295 million -- the exact asking price -- for a five-bedroom, three-bath unit on June 20.
The former president lived on the top floor of this brownstone in the mid-80s.
Rocker Jon Bon Jovi appears to have dropped the asking price for his sublime West Village duplex from $17.25 million to $15.95 million, according to the updated Corcoran listing.
The 4,031-square foot stunner wraps two corners at the celebrity-favorite 150 Charles Street condo building.
The property is listed by the Robby Browne Team.
You can see the full listing here.
Take a look through the photos to see what you'd get for the money.
Rocker Jon Bon Jovi has put his sublime West Village duplex on the market.
The property is listed by the Robby Browne Team at Corcoran.
(Photo credits: The Corcoran Group)
New Jersey's 'haunted' Clinton Road will be the backdrop for an upcoming scary movie, Variety reports.
If you are from New Jersey, you have probably heard tales of Clinton Road.
The 10-mile stretch of pavement in West Milford will be the focus of a new horror film that Ice-T will reportedly star in, according to Variety.
The story is based on what has been described by some as one of the nation's most haunted roads.
Haunting Photos Show Abandoned Midwest Amusement Parks

In the film, a group of fearless teenagers venture to Clinton Road to investigate the tall tales that they have heard and end up stranded, facing a satanic cult, according to the report.
The infamous road is known for urban legends of alleged paranormal activity, strange creature sightings, gatherings of witches and disposals of dead bodies.
Ice-T has joined Vincent Pastore and Ace Young in the upcoming independent horror movie, which is tentatively named "Clinton Road."
Inside the Abandoned Chicago Hospital Where Clinton Was Born

Filming will start in New York City beginning in August, so look out for Ice-T, who will play the role of a club owner who tries to warn the teens of the danger that lurks around Clinton Road.
Steve Stanulis is directing and the script is by Derek Ross Mackay.
The producers of the film are Noel Ashman, Richard Grieco and Stanulis through Stanulis Productions.
Abandoned Honeymoon Resorts: A Look Into a Bygone Era
New York City is about to get its very first dog cafe.
Boris and Horton is making its way to the the East Village.
It is the brainchild of father-daughter duo Coppy and Logan Holzman and is named after their pups.
Their target audience?
Dog lovers who also love a good cup of joe.
We wanted to come up with a solution for people when they want to grab a coffee or a snack and don't want to leave their dog at home or tie them up outside, Logan Holzman said.
The cafe will have tasty treats for four-legged attendees to enjoy as well as pastries for their owners to munch on.
The eatery will also feature merchandise and a photo booth.
Wondering if you can bring your other pets?
The cafe is only for dogs and their owners.
Boris and Horton will occupy two store spaces.
One space for the cafe and one space for the dogs.
However, a glass window will unite the two spaces so that those eating in the cafe can watch the pups frolic.
The eatery is specifically designed to ensure sanitary dining conditions.
We will have strict rules of conduct to ensure the safety and comfort of our guests, so loud or rambunctious dogs will be asked to leave," Holzman said.
"Its funny, because our dog Boris probably wouldn't be an ideal guest in the cafe, but we're working on his manners, she joked.
The cafe is also teaming up with Brooklyn Badass Animal Rescue to help unite customers with dogs in need of a loving home by hosting weekly adoption events.
We both have a passion for animal rescue and hope to create a space where we can promote the cause through adoption events and fundraisers," Holzman said.
"When I lived in New Orleans, I would sit outside my favorite coffee shop with my foster dog in his or her 'adopt me' vest and I found it was a great way to gain exposure for the dog and the rescue.
The cafe is expected to open in December and the cafes website will launch shortly before that.
The cafe will open on the corner of East 12 and Avenue A.
5 NYC Bars That Let You Bring Your Dog
Los Angeles artist Jonas Never painted a mural of the late Linkin Park singer Chester Bennington on the wall of a Sherman Oaks, California, pizzeria.
Never, who has painted many murals around Los Angeles, says Bennington, who took his own life in July, inspired him to mix genres in his work.
While many foods that contain "pumpkin" are automatically considered to be healthy, some pumpkin-flavored foods may actually be quite the opposite.
Erika Edwards reports.
(Published Thursday, Oct. 2, 2014)

It's barely August, but pumpkin spice mania is already upon us.
World Market released its annual pre-ground pumpkin spice coffee Tuesday, according to Today.com, joining plenty of other fall-themed products in grocery stores during the peak of summer.
Pumpkin spice versions of Cheerios, Dannon's yogurt, Ghirardelli's chocolates and Starbucks K-cups were all spotted in stores at the end of July.
Though pumpkin spice lattes won't hit Starbucks locations until Labor Day, the coffee chain has been known to give customers the opportunity to purchase the drink early.
Total sales of pumpkin-flavored foods in the U.S. grew almost 80 percent between 2011 and 2015, according to Nielsen data.
Starbucks alone has sold over 200 million pumpkin spice lattes since 2003.
The competition, hosted by TasteTV, is open to amateurs looking to ride the waves with some of the world's top dog surfers.
The World Surf Dog Competition will return to the Bay Area August 5, bringing with it a sea of hounds who can hang ten and a few who will wipeout.
The competition, hosted by TasteTV, is open to amateurs looking to ride the waves with some of the world's top dog surfers.
Last years winner, Abbie, traveled from Southern California to compete, but owner Michael Uy said it was actually a home reunion.
The Australian Kelpie was adopted from the Humane Society of Silicon Valley after being rescued from the side of a road.
Uy said he would take Abbie to the beach as part of her rehabilitation.
He soon discovered Abbie could ride a wave by herself while he was out surfing one day.
The talented pooch has since gone on to become a decorated "surf dog" and holds the Guinness world record for longest wave surfed by a canine.
More surfers are opting to take their four-legged friend out on the waves with them.
However, if your dog does not take to a surfboard immediately, there is still hope.
The Surf Dog Series released tips for getting your dogs ready to head out on the water and a decorated surf dog, Ricochet, hosts a home training schedule online:

Here are some of their tips you can use to get your dog stoked for surfing:

Swim Before You Surf: "Make sure your dog can swim!"
Uy said.
Even his world record-holding dog Abbie falls off the board.
Uy emphasized making sure conditions are safe and your dog can handle the wave.
Safety First: Uy outfits his dog in a wet suit designed just for Abbie.
But Judy Fridono, a dog trainer and owner to famous surfer dog Ricochet, said most people looking to surf with their dogs are folks who go out a few times a summer.
Most active surfer dogs have at least a doggy life jacket on during the ride.
Dont Force It: Many owners can sense if theyre dog is having fun or not.
Trainer Fridono emphasized the biggest rule for her is: "If they really don't want to surf, then find something else you both enjoy."
While some dogs surf on their first time out on the water like Abbie, others take a bit longer to learn so patience and baby steps may be required.
Train at Home Practice makes perfect!
"Getting your dog to surf really depends on each individual dog, Fridono said.
However, she does suggest putting away the surfboard when you're not training so your dog gets excited each time.
Food and Treats By serving treats and meal time on the surfboard, the trainer said you reinforce your behavior of your dog being on the board, rather than getting off it.
Distraction Training: "Many dogs are very distracted by everything else going on, so they tend to jump off the board to play, go after a ball, sniff another dog " The trainer said to complete basic distraction trainers to get your dog ready for crowded beaches.
Use Verbal Cues: "Use a word to release your dog from being on the board, such as 'release.'"
Many dogs surf backward so they can keep an eye on their owner.
The trainer suggests using a word to help your dog learn that they should stay on the board even when youre behind them.
Say Cheese: Your dog has a special talent and people will take notice!
Prep your dog for the social media fame that may follow.
Have fun!
Each trainer and owner emphasized that the biggest part of surfing with dogs is to spend more time with the dog.
Make sure it is fun for you and your furry friend!
The second annual World Dog Surfing Championships is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. on August 5 at Linda Mar Beach in Pacifica.
In A Parallelogram, Celia Keenan-Bolger is Bee, a drugstore chain manager who has just begun co-habitating with Jay, a heart-on-his-sleeve, over-privileged white guy who has ditched his wife and kids for -- lets call it what it isa trophy girlfriend.
Unknown to Jay, and only slightly clearer to Bee, theres a third person living with them: Thats Bee 2, 3 or 4, an older woman so named by playwright Bruce Norris depending on where in the two-act play we find ourselves: Bees 2, 3 and 4 are older, wiser versions of Keenan-Bolgers character  but with a smoking habit.
Seasoned with a gleeful dash of sadism by veteran entertainer Anita Gillette (Chapter Two, etc.
), the older Bees own a dangerous remote control that can be used to rewind or fast forward to pivotal events in younger Bees life.
Given all this, Keenan-Bolger has to make a choice: Relive certain moments, to try making them better  or let them slide into history.
Well, I know what I'd do: Lets grab that remote and put it through her paces!
(Willy Wonka would've hated me.)
A Parallelogram, which three-time Tony nominee Keenan-Bolger has colorfully deemed a cross between Our Town and Black Mirror, premiered at Chicagos Steppenwolf Theatre in 2010.
The next year, Norriss Clybourne Park would win a Pulitzer Prize for Drama, and then win the Tony for top play after that.
You can see the ideas of class and status explored in Clybourne Park percolating in this earlier existential comedy, with its title that suggests the shape of experience: If something happened in the past, it could be happening again, in parallel, in the present.
Events, naturally, arent always unfolding in a linear fashion.
As the play opens, Jay has employed a sinewy, business-savvy Latino (Juan Castano) to mow the lawn for $50.
We can see where this is going from a mile away, but its still fun to watch the character (Stephen Kunken, of Enron) hem and haw over whether the fellow deserves a $10 tip ... it's the wrong thing to be fretting about.
Birds -- both a parrot, that Bee had a painful experience with as a child, and a finch, which provides a pleasant memory for Jay -- play into the proceedings, as does, uh, a virus that threatens to wipe out humanity.
We spend much of the second act in a hospital, where a gathering of fine minds tries to decide whether Bees disposition is merely her personality, or the result of that sinister disease going around: Whats the name of that cheese?
ponders Bee 2, who has joined us in a doctors coat for this particular exchange.
The one with the teeny little holes.
Is it Lorraine?
... Thats what your brain starts to look like.
Someone in this room is sick as a parrot, but we leave never figuring out quite whom.
And anyway, Ive omitted a couple of key details.
First, though Bee can always see her older self, the older woman has the power to become invisible whenever Jays around.
And while the older woman can share with Bee her knowledge of past and future events, and let her relive them, theres nothing young Bee can do to alter their outcomes.
And thats how A Parallelogram finally takes shape.
Though young Bee cant change the inevitable, she can tweak the tenor of the exchange leading up to it, making a hostile exchange less so, for example.
Put another way, in a situation where someones going to get hurt, theyre still going to get hurt  but theres a difference between schadenfreude and empathy, and we do -- all of us -- have control over the vibes were giving off.
Dear Evan Hansen director Michael Greif allows Norriss misanthropy to creep slowly into the proceedings, like smoke from the older Bees Marlboros.
A Parallelogram is a dark piece that argues were unlikely to emerge from the primordial muck of our own creation.
That said, Id gladly grab that remote control if it, by chance, could provide gentler conclusions to some of the more abrasive endings in my own life.
A Parallelogram, through Aug. 20 at Second Stages Tony Kiser Theater, 305 W. 43rd St. Tickets $66-$109.
Call 212-246-4422.
Follow Robert Kahn on Twitter@RobertKahn
Owner of Resort That Inspired 'Dirty Dancing' Needs Help

The owner of the now-defunct Catskills resort that inspired the film "Dirty Dancing" is seeking government help in cleaning up contamination left behind during the property's glory days.
A subsidiary of Westchester-based Cappelli Enterprises has asked the New York Department of Environmental Conservation to designate the former Grossinger's resort site a brownfield, according to the Times Herald-Record of Middletown.
Such a designation would make the dilapidated property eligible for state aid in removing contamination from underground fuel tanks, dry-cleaning chemicals and other resort-related operations.
The owner wants to demolish the last remaining buildings and construct a 300-room hotel and housing complex.
Grossinger's was the most famous of the Catskills' old Borscht Belt resorts, operating for nearly 70 years before closing in 1986, a year before "Dirty Dancing" was released.
New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was the latest "friend" of President Donald Trump's to speak out against his comments this past weekend about NFL players taking a knee during the national anthem.
Trump called for the NFL to "fire or suspend" those who kneel during the opening anthem.
"If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!"
Trump tweeted on Sunday, which followed similar comments he made Friday at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Brady, who has said in the past that he's friends with the current commander-in-chief, spoke out Monday, saying "I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive."
After Trump's comments, various teams either took a knee together on Sunday or stayed in the locker room during the national anthem.
Brady, 40, was interviewed on WEEI's "Kirk and Callahan" show Monday morning, one day after he linked arms with his fellow Patriots to show unity.
"Like I said, I just want to support my teammates," Brady said of his actions.
"I am never one to say, Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust ...
I have been blessed to be in locker rooms with guys all over the United States over the course of my career ...
The one thing about football is it brings so many guys together  guys you would never have the opportunity to be around."
Brady said what makes a football team so special is that "we're all different."
"I think everyone has the right to do whatever they want to do.
If you dont agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
Its part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about," he continued.
Brady followed in the footsteps of another Trump friend, Patriots Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft, who released a statement Sunday admitting how "deeply disappointed" he was "by the tone of the comments made by the president."
"I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities.
Their efforts, both on and off the field, help bring people together and make our community stronger.
There is no greater unifier in this country than sports, and unfortunately, nothing more divisive than politics," Kraft said.
The taking of a knee by NFL players began last year when former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick declined to stand during the national anthem before a preseason game against San Diego.
He later explained to reporters that he was doing so to peacefully incite "significant change" regarding racial oppression in this country.
Jan Triska, an actor who moved to the U.S. after being banned by the Czechoslovak Communist regime, has died, more than a day after he fell from Prague's iconic Charles Bridge.
He was 80.
Prague theater director Jan Hrusinsky confirmed the death Monday.
Triska died in Prague's military hospital overnight due to injuries from Saturday's fall, the circumstances of which are unclear.
Triska emigrated in 1977 after signing a human rights manifesto inspired by his close friend, dissident playwright Vaclav Havel.
He settled in Los Angeles and appeared in dozens of movies, including "Ragtime" and "The People vs. Larry Flynt" by his fellow Czech Milos Forman.
After the anti-Communist 1989 Velvet Revolution led by Havel, Triska regularly returned home to play in movies and theaters, including a leading role in "The Elementary School," nominated for an Academy Award.
Kris Jenner is speaking out for the first time about the rumors that her youngest daughter, Kylie, is expecting her first child - and the momager is saying, not so fast!
"I just woke up this morning.
Shes not confirmed anything," Jenner , 61, told The Cut on Saturday when asked if she knew the news was going to break.
Several reports claim that Kylie Jenner, 20, is expecting a child with her boyfriend, rapper Travis Scott.
The two began dating earlier this year, just months after her publicized split with rapper Tyga.
ABC News reached out to a rep for Jenner, but didn't hear back.
Many thought the timing of a possible announcement would be perfect, as this weekend marks the 10th anniversary of "Keeping Up With the Kardashians," the famous family's E!
reality show.
"I think its kind of wild that everyone is just assuming that thats just happening," the mother of six continued.
The youngest of the Kardashian clan was even spotted wearing a grey baggy shirt to the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas on Saturday night, where her boyfriend, whose birth name is Jacques Webster, Jr., performed.
Asked again if she knew Kylie Jenner's pregnancy rumor "was going to happen," the matriarch replied, "Something happens every single day.
You never know what is going to break at any moment."
President Donald Trump asserted today that his criticism of players who kneel during the national anthem "has nothing to do with race."
Rather, the president said the issue is "respect for our country, flag and national anthem."
Trump appeared to be responding to critics who say his slam of players who kneel in protest is about race.
The president sparked the controversy at a rally Friday night when he declared that football team owners should fire players who kneel during the anthem.
Ron Sachs/CNP/Polaris

"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out,'" the president said.
in Huntsville, Alabama, before a largely white crowd.
The president's comments spurred a strong reaction by NFL players and owners, with many players kneeling or locking arms during the "Star-Spangled Banner" on Sunday as a rebuke to him.
Kneeling during the anthem was started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in the 2016 preseason, a practice he said was to protest against the treatment of blacks in the United States.
Kaepernick is black.
The president on Monday continued hammering his argument that kneeling during the national anthem is unpatriotic.
Marvin Gentry/Reuters

"It is about respect for our country, flag and national anthem," he tweeted.
"NFL must respect this!"
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

He also returned to his claim that NFL fans don't support the player protests.
Many people booed the players who kneeled yesterday (which was a small percentage of total).
These are fans who demand respect for our Flag!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

Trump also sought to contrast the NFL with NASCAR, whose fans he said wouldn't "put up with disrespecting our country or our flag,"

So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans.
They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

But one of NASCAR's biggest stars staked out a different position that Trump.
Dale Earnhardt Jr. tweeted Monday morning that all Americans have a right to protest peacefully.
Michael Jordan is voicing his support for freedom of speech and peaceful protest following President Donald Trump's decision to rescind an invitation to the NBA champion Golden State Warriors to celebrate with Trump at the White House.
Warriors star Stephen Curry said on Friday that he didn't want to go to the White House and Trump said the next day that he was no longer invited.
Jordan tells the Charlotte Observer in a statement that "those who exercise the right to peacefully express themselves should not be demonized or ostracized."
The Charlotte Hornets owner and NBA legend adds that he supports the league, its players "and all those who wish to exercise their right to free speech."
Jordan didn't mention Trump by name in his statement.
U.S. Sen. John McCain says doctors have given him a "very poor prognosis" as he battles brain cancer.
McCain underwent surgery in July for a brain tumor that was later found to be a form of glioblastoma, the same type of cancer that took the life of his former Senate colleague Edward M. Kennedy in 2009.
McCain tells CBS' "60 Minutes" in an interview that aired Sunday night that he thinks about Kennedy a lot.
He says Kennedy continued to work despite the diagnosis and "never gave up because he loved the engagement."
McCain says he has "feelings sometimes of fear of what happens," but counters that with gratitude for having lived "had a great life."
He adds: "it's not that you're leaving, it's that you  that you stayed."
Kylie Jenner posted a photo flashing her belly amid reports that she is pregnant.
The 20-year-old reality star, who has not confirmed the reports, seemed to be teasing her fans by giving them a peak at her bare stomach while posing with her best friend Jordyn Woods on her birthday.
Wearing baggy sweats, Jenner wrote alongside the photo of the two of them, "yesterday was cute.
hope you had the happiest of birthdays Jordy.
Love you forever ever and beyond."
yesterday was cute.
hope you had the happiest of birthdays Jordy.
Love you forever ever and beyond.. A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Sep 24, 2017 at 12:13pm PDT

Several reports on Friday claimed that Jenner is expecting a child with her boyfriend, rapper Travis Scott.
The two began dating earlier this year, just months after her publicized split with rapper Tyga.
But Jenner's mother, Kris Jenner, told The Cut on Saturday, "Shes not confirmed anything."
ABC News reached out to a rep for Jenner, but didn't hear back.
The makeup mogul posted another photo Sunday, this time posing with several girlfriends, all wearing white bathrobes.
"Mornings," she captioned the selfie.
mornings :) A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Sep 24, 2017 at 11:42am PDT

On Saturday, the youngest of the Kardashian clan was spotted wearing a grey baggy shirt to the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas, where her boyfriend, whose birth name is Jacques Webster, Jr., performed.
Asked if she knew Kylie Jenner's pregnancy rumor "was going to happen," the matriarch Kris Jenner told The Cut, "Something happens every single day.
You never know what is going to break at any moment."
Meghan Linsey, the singer performing The Star-Spangled Banner" at Sundays Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans game in Nashville, took a knee on a field with no players present after finishing her rendition of the national anthem.
Linsey, a former contestant on "The Voice," was receiving rapturous applause for her performance at at Nissan Stadium when she chose to bend down on one knee -- a move that has become political symbol over the past year and particularly over the weekend after President Trump called for the firing of NFL players who kneel in protest during the anthem.
This afternoon, both the Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans made separate announcements that there will be nobody from either team on the sidelines for the anthem.
"As a team, we wanted to be unified in our actions today.
The players jointly decided this was the best course of action.
Our commitment to the military and our community is resolute and the absence of our team for the national anthem shouldn't be misconstrued as unpatriotic," the Titan's statement said.
The Seahawks players statement said, "As a team, we have decided we will not participate in the national anthem.
We will not stand for the injustice that has plagued people of color in this country.
Out of love for our country and in honor of the sacrifices made on our behalf, we unite to oppose those that would deny our most basic freedoms.
We remain committed in continuing work towards equality and justice for all."
The protests come in response to the president's comments at a rally Friday night in Alabama when he said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out."
When "The Princess Bride" opened 30 years ago today, it wasn't exactly a hit with audiences.
During the 11 weeks it played in theaters, the film earned $25.5 million, according to Box Office Mojo, and ranked 41st in domestic grosses that year.
However, Cary Elwes, who starred as Westley in the fantasy film, told ABC News that he was delighted when audiences rediscovered and embraced the movie after it was released on video.
"Im very proud of it," he said.
"It gave me the career and life I have, so Im very grateful for it."
In celebration of the movie's anniversary, Elwes reflected on making the film and shared personal stories of his time on the set.
Though many of his memories were recounted in his 2014 book, "As You Wish," here are a few thoughts that even the biggest "Princess Bride" fans might not know:

1.
He was a fan of the book as a teenager: Elwes' stepfather gave him a copy of "The Princess Bride" when he was 13, and he was instantly hooked.
Author William Goldman's sense of humor captivated him, and of course, he said he was "enamored" with Westley.
Still, he added, "I couldn't have imagined myself playing him!"
The audition process was pretty informal: Elwes was shooting the film "Maschenka" in Berlin when his agent called to tell him director Rob Reiner and his producing partner wanted to come to Germany to interview him.
The audition happened in Elwes' hotel room, and though he didn't think he needed to prepare anything, Elwes ended up reading Westley's monologue from the fire swamp for Reiner.
"I didn't think I was going to get it at all, frankly, because I was an unknown actor at the time and it's not often that they hire unknown actors to be the leads of films in Hollywood.
It's very rare," he said.
"A week later I got the call and that was that!
I was beyond excited."
Robin Wright wasn't cast until the eleventh hour: Billy Crystal and Christopher Guest had already signed on by the time Elwes was cast, but Reiner had yet to find his perfect Princess Buttercup.
With just a week to go before filming, a very nervous Reiner, who had been auditioning English actresses, agreed to look at Wright's audition tape at the behest of casting director Jane Jenkins.
She joined the cast almost immediately thereafter.
"Shes just fun to be around!
Shes one of the guys," Elwes said of Wright.
"Very down to earth."
The cast and crew were very comfortable together: During the shoot, which Elwes said lasted for about a month-and-a-half, the cast and crew grew very close.
"I can't remember a day without laughter," he said.
Reiner acted as the father of the group, hosting dinners for the cast and encouraging game nights and other hang outs.
One indication that the group was going to jell came on the first day, Elwes said, when wrestler Andr the Giant, who played Fezzik in the movie, "let out a 16 second fart and brought production to a standstill."
"It could be heard three counties away," Elwes said with a laugh.
"Nobody said anything except Rob, who said 'Are you OK, Andr?'
and Andr replied, 'I am now boss.'
He was comfortable enough to do that!"
Production had to shift because of an injury: Elwes said he "stupidly" broke his toe while goofing around on Andr the Giant's ATV, which caused Reiner to move the filming of Elwes' fight scene with Mandy Patinkin's Inigo Montoya toward the end of production.
Still, "we rehearsed pretty much every day," he said of the highly choreographed duel.
"We never stopped working on it."
Elwes did many of his own stunts: "Rob wanted to see our faces a lot so that was not much of a choice," Elwes said of doing his own stunts in the film.
However, he said he did have a "fearless" stunt double who showed him how to safely pull off some of the more complicated moves.
That stunt double can be seen rolling down the hill in one of the film's most famous scenes ("I didn't want to do the hill but Rob didn't want me to do it either," Elwes said), and, Elwes added, an acrobat came in to perform the swing during the fight sequence.
No, he didn't have a ponytail during filming: "They had wigs and little ponytails -- stuff like that," Elwes said of his on-screen look.
"But the funny thing was, by the end of the movie, my hair grew to the exact length they needed!"
Jennifer Lopez announced on Sunday that she is donating $1 million from the proceeds of her Las Vegas show to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico.
She made the announcement at a press conference Sunday alongside New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo.
Speaking first in Spanish and then in English, Lopez announced the donation would go to charitable organizations and other nongovernmental organizations.
She also announced that she and boyfriend, former New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez, are "utilizing all of our resources and relationships in entertainment, sports and business to garner support for Puerto Rican and Caribbean relief efforts," and that they have secured a commitment for help from Major League Baseball and the Yankees.
Lopez also announced that she's been working with Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban and Mavericks player J.J. Barea, that the group is ready to send two planes filled with supplies to San Juan when air travel is cleared.
Hurricane Maria ravaged Puerto Rico, leaving 100 percent of the island without power.
The hurricane was a Category 4 storm with winds of 155 miles per hour when it made landfall on the U.S. territory Sept. 20.
Lopez is one of many artists, including Ricky Martin and Luis Fonsi, who have posted about how much help the island needs since the storm.
Anthony Weiner, the disgraced former New York congressman and soon-to-be ex-husband of top Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin, broke down in federal court today as he was sentenced to 21 months in prison for sending obscene material to a 15-year-old high school student in North Carolina.
Weiner, 53, who pleaded guilty last May to a single count of transferring obscene material to a minor, was also sentenced to three years of supervised release.
Elder Ordonez/Splash News

Aaron Katersky/ABC News

When Judge Denise Cote announced her decision, Weiner, who was seeking probation, dropped his head and started to cry.
"This is a serious crime that deserves serious punishment," Cote said in court.
Federal prosecutors had asked a judge to send Weiner to prison for 21 to 27 months.
Acting Manhattan U.S. Attorney Joon H. Kim said in a statement today, "Anthony Weiner, a former Congressman and candidate for Mayor, asked a girl who he knew to be 15 years old to display her naked body and engage in sexually explicit behavior for him online.
Justice demands that this type of conduct be prosecuted and punished with time in prison.
Today, Anthony Weiner received a just sentence that was appropriate for his crime."
Richard Drew/AP Photo

Weiner sobbed audibly in court for a few minutes after the proceeding ended.
He did not speak as he left the courthouse.
Today's sentencing marks the end of a six-year saga during which Weiner resigned from Congress, unsuccessfully ran for mayor of New York and separated from Abedin, who filed for divorce the day he was indicted.
Weiner and Abedin are parents to a young son.
Weiner's crime may have played a role in Clinton's loss to Donald Trump.
When the FBI found Abedin's email on his computer, then-FBI Director James Comey revisited the investigation into Clinton's use of a private server.
Jefferson Siegel/The Daily News via AP

Defense attorney Arlo Devlin-Brown said today that Weiner's "repeated acts of self destruction are not those of a scheming criminal."
Weiner had asked for probation, citing his continual recovery from an illness that cost him his marriage and career.
A term of imprisonment would bring Anthonys indisputably successful treatment for the sickness underlying his crime to an immediate and complete halt and separate Anthony from the son who has motivated his recovery, his defense attorneys wrote.
In an emotional statement in May, Weiner said he "compulsively sought attention from women," engaging many of them in sexual and non-sexual conversations.
He said his behavior started when he entered Congress and it continued through the first six months of 2016.
"These destructive impulses brought great devastation to my family and friends, and destroyed my life's dream of public service," he said.
Weiner said he "came to grips for the first time with the depths of my sickness" last fall and entered "intensive treatment."
"I have a sickness," Weiner said, "but I do not have an excuse."
Transcript for 'Designated Survivor' star talks season 2 premiere

Good morning everybody I'm an odd here live in New York we thought that's look at that in studio that sat in seat at designated survivor.
It's now here and Paula stand that joined the cast that he's doing that here live.
Here stance that stands now stands.
Again.
That is why my handwriting.
Is that literally says dale Kirsch storms yes that's not name now dale Costanza believes that doesn't.
There are different they're going to be here right that they if the under any way thank you this is your first time we did in the past what was it like to join.
This is my.
First time on drawn for.
You know on the long running network drama series again mostly comedy.
So it's different certainly different a lot of like serious.
Political stuff.
I was nervous coming in I was unsure if I can do that is just you know get a stand and deliver pages sometimes political means and places and stuff.
And it took it took me as a tip keepers like.
At this point incredibly comes in doesn't need rehearsal they are learning rehearse their children and he's shoots.
He knows everything it took me it took me a little bit to get.
Honed.
But now it's actually it's it's coming naturally and my character is funny as well yes it do you get that you bring an active role but characters how how you inserting itself.
So I play Lee were Boone who is a quirky kind of brilliant but very strange and on filtered.
Political advisor to the president that he takes on because he likes the fact that there's real candor from this guy point.
And the whole mission eyeing your characters introduction mr. tightly rebuild trust right trying to get people to believe in American government.
President Kirk men played by Kiefer Sutherland he's not a politician you know you got the job because of house was killed.
Which is the premise of the show so he he's not.
Political and all he's just making decisions a lot of time based on his own integrity and moral compass which is a very good ones what makes its interest in show.
My I think my characters blockades if that is the right thing to do but you're not gonna get reelected he do that have so my characters trying to find the balance of bringing him you know making him more of an insider as it as a politician yet not too much obviously but.
Tempering him because I see the potential.
You mentioned and getting to see on politics and deliver.
I'm learning my life what you follow politics an all American politics in particular I I go through phases right now working it's a lot of work actually on I don't.
You know why I look at the headlines sometimes it focusing on can of this world this this alternate reality in politics.
And sometimes the broad political.
I need to get obsessed with politics and checked my phone every two seconds yes it's a lot.
Four or his office goes to prisons on right now I have a good excuse.
Look at the degree you're kind of you to kind of put yourself in humans in this alternate reality right it just you can immerse yourself in this world not the story.
About the actual that there.
So tell me about what it was like to join Catholic artist got the successful season and about right and then you are stepping in new characters new energy they've already got their things aren't done it more no no he never going.
Captain I'll never.
Very strange thing at a regular nowhere regular actor.
They were very very comedy tally.
I've been retaliation I didn't have a car that for with the drive herself to set into wrong so wrong.
Worm from actually.
She lent me her she Obama easing Majid was he's suddenly her dad dropped off for Jeep that was really nice to.
I know cal from years ago.
When we both accordingly sex comedies in early 2000 that was wonderful reunion.
Category with that is sick and can't yeah sex come.
Sex come.
There it's 948.
Kiefer we didn't meet at all keepers very specific.
Person he's varies very professional.
And I think maybe part of it was nice because we did you watch that first episode.
Literally we shot at the scene we met that was the first scene in Asia I literally shook hands.
We read through the scene and and we just certain shootings we've got to know each other in real time as the characters.
Which was really.
Interest.
They're racking.
I was very nervous and I mean that's a whole new environment and anybody ever Warner knows each other right I had a lot you know to prove.
But it was redeeming knows it's a challenge that shows a challenge.
Unit issues in Iran you grew up outside a Tehran.
Iran in Grafton.
Brandt ran Branson area.
Without.
But I'm prepared for this it was this I was and I believe I'm suburb of Carano.
Not a whole lot to do.
You know I think had a pretty you know five and fund friends knives or went to a high school of mayfield.
For performing arts.
Everett originally auditioned plays trumpet.
In the ban which it had no interest in doing those too scared to audition from program if the guardian for trumpet.
Lasted two years and I made a friend from program and he or ad agency drama that we Ecstasy drama Nate yes we should drama queen.
And at some past I like an avocado at a an aggressive.
I'm saying it that way.
Anyway I was retired when examined that he has exam.
These scales to do it first scales for three weeks now going to be.
Would you use yet we act like monkeys for like an hour straight and are really getting upset the mindset of being a monkey.
He's like yeah it was hard and I got a game.
From that point I can.
Who quits or it doesn't monkey sold.
You really I think I had friends like that I just had I wanted I wanted that's all they wanted I was just magnetized.
To acting.
If he talked about that and actually preached.
Growing yeah I was very reverse scared to be seen.
Yet totally I was just scared scared scary thing.
It took that they hate it took the misery of sitting in from and I didn't have any interest from but for two years.
And then it and they gave up my lunch period.
Two going cities.
On the drama class which made all the students incredibly comfortable but they teach you were not enroll in college you know I would raced through the whole eating my lunch that they could get there to sit in the corner.
And watch and I stayed for long enough the people it was this guy.
Ultimately I just waited.
And when guy was out sick and narrow right there like well who can do this part of it looked at me you know it's like.
There late polluted region.
Did you do it as they and I guess I could and you everything up by our.
And then by the end of this school here I was actively participating in this class that it was not ruled that.
And so that I actually auditioned formally for the team my.
Head of the school which also terrifying that lets your literally there was two seats in the room it was just him going like this.
Why you audition go.
Would he do you remember.
I did a monologue about a baseball fields.
And I.
Added.
My mom how balances.
Among Hellman moments packed with useful servers and follow through the Q you went musical she's like what if we had an accident.
And so that we since the lyric music and go on like that the old Schenectady line.
I used to watch the trains passed as the son Luke that the process.
And and I did this.
A had all my actions down with the chair I use the chair and I sat down mr. Sharon was like.
I'll let you know and he laughed out loud.
And athletic god and it was like that it ordered her lying related fly that.
Still get it before auditions are first and actually I have I have a lot of anxiety again I do I have but still have performances.
It's just part of it but that's it also that's also part of what makes it redeeming because.
The more challenging the scene of the audition or let's play it is.
Finishing it getting overcoming it.
Is like euphoria it's physical euphoria when did that again now one of the next.
You've had you gotten to place so many different roles across your career already and you mentioned during your sex comedy.
Time secular Stuart and or road trip.
But you've done comedies he's an indie films you're you're doing this now do you have a kind of place where you think okay this is my house this is what I really really.
Think it's.
Thought I did but I don't know I did did the age nine if Russia which were very very much was different.
Look I the reason I got into acting with I saw Dustin Hoffman in the graduate.
I saw that sounds like if he can do that he can he's an aberration I was you know when he wasn't like.
Robert Redford he looked more like I didn't high school was this kind members you know pavlik not a very handsome guy.
Me this fire.
So my coming up I mean that think.
Scott appreciate it does not help you know right near all those guys again Gene Hackman.
That's what Blake got my got the fire going so.
It feels nice to do some more dramatic stuff.
And fielding feeling.
Comfortable that.
Well congratulations on make sense to me mister Nixon sent an advance on.
Seat until.
A designated survivor.
Is out now Paula consent.
And I think the air then you're in it.
And to thank you thank all of you for watching as well and everything right you're related headlines and breaking news or download the eighty it app.
Get all the headlines and breaking news right Jeter for now I'm comment about the healthy back here.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Athletes, fans divided over Trump's Kaepernick comments

Stars across the sports world came out against the president's fiery rhetoric about the former NFL player, who took a knee during the national anthem in quiet protest last season.
Transcript for J.Lo donates $1M to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico

Arafat stepping up any major way for hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico donating one million dollars.
Check out those in need jail I was parents are both Ferrari didn't made the announcement at a press conference there you see in New York.
On Sunday describing how the relief efforts are so personal for her.
My cousin and I and our families that been able to hear from all of our family over the and we are concerned for them and for everyone on the island.
She sure as and giving big love has also announcing that she and shark tank star Mark Cuban among others are sending.
Two airplanes filled with supplies generators what ever needed for the residents of San Juan Puerto Rico.
The news cycle people who eat great about it what's happened in the Caribbean what know what by the way Harvey as Texas and Louisiana.
Teen Lawrence.
It doesn't go away just because of storms that passed a relaxed many say this is the hardest of the heart of to keep what would that sound.
Everybody has people had in mind please.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Athletes, fans divided over Trump's Kaepernick comments

Stars across the sports world came out against the president's fiery rhetoric about the former NFL player, who took a knee during the national anthem in quiet protest last season.
Transcript for Ed Sheeran performs his smash hit 'Shape of You' live on 'GMA'

Here is safe.
Hope you.
Oh yeah.
I. Yeah.
You oh oh.
We'll.
Wrong.
Obviously the best place to find another said the.
Ooh I'm me apparatus that payment shots thinking about Stanley talks I mean come Obama's.
And a promise they suggest they can't trust me again.
Parents fanatic my hands on an amendment to see him he's got through that is causing him thank you communal violence you.
And mean plus sound back I mean yeah.
He may be crazy don't mind these people and that's parents go to my grandma not placed in permanent.
I mean yeah.
We come.
Leave.
News on.
Shane news we push general recommended the news Obama times clients do and common Whitfield back.
And that's thank you in my room and them up next season and many these have a symptom and.
We do.
We'll.
We'll.
We'll.
We'll.
He does have a cell.
When we can't it's time again McClellan now.
Day and thank you can't get additional weakening of the and I've been up and let.
We tell the response he's my family is doing okay I'm and leaving and that sexy is in the back seat of government demand.
Let me losing and I. I'm sure.
Anything sound.
I'm evening craze we go.
He's paid that sense it's.
Outweighs him.
Come on now.
Fish we.
With machine guns me pushed him and recommended me Obama.
He's been common.
And that's turning Chile.
And them out of it she is now thinking maybe he's gonna reexamine their man.
Wrong.
We'll.
We'll come.
We'll.
I'm in.
A I mean come and claim that they.
Come they came maybe.
Come being a baby.
Leaving them.
I think my baby from.
We push and.
Coming.
And that's yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ed Sheeran rocks out to a special performance of 'Perfect' live on 'GMA'

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ed Sheeran reveals how he landed a role on 'Game of Thrones'

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Freddie Highmore dishes on 'The Good Doctor'

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Prince Harry Condemns 'Abuse and Harassment' of Girlfriend Meghan Markle

Kensington Palace has issued an unprecedented statement not only acknowledging Prince Harry's relationship with girlfriend Meghan Markle but warning the press about harassing Markle, an American actress.
Transcript for Elizabeth Moss, Jim Parsons read mean but hilarious tweets about them on 'Jimmy Kimmel Live'

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
US Soccer Star Joins Kaepernick in National Anthem Protest

Megan Rapinoe joined San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in protest on Sunday night, kneeling in solidarity during the national anthem and saying being a "gay american," helped her empathize with the struggle for minority rights.
Transcript for NFL owners lock arms with players during national anthem

comments from president trump where he called on NFL owners to fire anthem.
And W on the field Sunday, more than 100 knelt and others stood arm in arm with their teammates.
Some teams chose not to take the field during the national anthem.
And then there was this dramatic moment, this former army ranger th onl member of the Pittsburgh steelers that went out on the field during the national anthem hand over heart.
He served in Afghanistan.
He did.
Millions taking to social media as you can imagine.
These hashtags sparked 3.8 million tweets, many of those supporting the protest,

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Jennifer Lopez announced on Sunday that she is donating $1 million from the proceeds of her Las Vegas show to hurricane relief efforts in Puerto Rico.
She made the announcement at a press conference Sunday alongside New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo.
Speaking first in Spanish and then in English, Lopez announced the donation would go to charitable organizations and other nongovernmental organizations.
She also announced that she and boyfriend, former New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez, are "utilizing all of our resources and relationships in entertainment, sports and business to garner support for Puerto Rican and Caribbean relief efforts," and that they have secured a commitment for help from Major League Baseball and the Yankees.
Lopez also announced that she's been working with Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban and Mavericks player J.J. Barea, that the group is ready to send two planes filled with supplies to San Juan when air travel is cleared.
Hurricane Maria ravaged Puerto Rico, leaving 100 percent of the island without power.
The hurricane was a Category 4 storm with winds of 155 miles per hour when it made landfall on the U.S. territory Sept. 20.
Lopez is one of many artists, including Ricky Martin and Luis Fonsi, who have posted about how much help the island needs since the storm.
Kylie Jenner posted a photo flashing her belly amid reports that she is pregnant.
The 20-year-old reality star, who has not confirmed the reports, seemed to be teasing her fans by giving them a peak at her bare stomach while posing with her best friend Jordyn Woods on her birthday.
Wearing baggy sweats, Jenner wrote alongside the photo of the two of them, "yesterday was cute.
hope you had the happiest of birthdays Jordy.
Love you forever ever and beyond."
yesterday was cute.
hope you had the happiest of birthdays Jordy.
Love you forever ever and beyond.. A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Sep 24, 2017 at 12:13pm PDT

Several reports on Friday claimed that Jenner is expecting a child with her boyfriend, rapper Travis Scott.
The two began dating earlier this year, just months after her publicized split with rapper Tyga.
But Jenner's mother, Kris Jenner, told The Cut on Saturday, "Shes not confirmed anything."
ABC News reached out to a rep for Jenner, but didn't hear back.
The makeup mogul posted another photo Sunday, this time posing with several girlfriends, all wearing white bathrobes.
"Mornings," she captioned the selfie.
mornings :) A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Sep 24, 2017 at 11:42am PDT

On Saturday, the youngest of the Kardashian clan was spotted wearing a grey baggy shirt to the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas, where her boyfriend, whose birth name is Jacques Webster, Jr., performed.
Asked if she knew Kylie Jenner's pregnancy rumor "was going to happen," the matriarch Kris Jenner told The Cut, "Something happens every single day.
You never know what is going to break at any moment."
Image copyright David Levene Image caption Clockwise from top left: Works by Hurvin Anderson, Andrea Buttner, Rosalind Nashashibi, Lubaina Himid

It was once the domain of outrageous young artists.
But this year the Turner Prize has grown up, shining a light on overlooked older artists, unsensational subject matter and traditional methods.
The exhibition of the four shortlisted artists opens in Hull on Tuesday.
After a rule change, Hurvin Anderson and Lubaina Himid are the first over-50s to be nominated since 1991, while Andrea Buttner and Rosalind Nashashibi are both in their 40s.
Image copyright David Levene Image caption Lubaina Himid used cut-out figures for The Fashionable Marriage

In the past, the Turner Prize has been famed for works like Damien Hirst, with his cow in formaldehyde, Tracey Emin's unmade bed, and Martin Creed's The Lights Going On and Off.
Artists of any age were eligible when the prize was first launched in 1984 but in 1991, the rules changed so that only artists under 50 could be considered.
But earlier this year, the rule changed again to allow over 50s to enter.
Anderson, 52, and Himid, 63, have taken their places in this year's nominees' exhibition and are now the bookies' favourites to win.
Zanzibar-born, Preston-based Himid tackles attitudes to race, from slavery to the present day, through her tableaux of wooden figures and painted-over pottery.
Anderson's vivid paintings blend his home city of Birmingham with the Jamaica of his forebears.
Tate Britain director Alex Farquharson, who is chairing this year's jury, said there was a desire to celebrate artists who had previously been neglected by the mainstream.
Image copyright Hurvin Anderson Image caption Hurvin Anderson has depicted barber shops, including in Is It Okay To Be Black?
"The art world is more interested than ever before in important but overlooked figures, and work that was made in fairly recent times that didn't have the visibility for whatever reason," he said.
"Sometimes that's to do with its politics, sometimes it's to do with the identity of the artist - you see, for example, a lot of work by older women being revisited by curators today.
And particularly in the case of artists of colour and women artists."
Farquharson said this year's was "the most international and diverse Turner Prize to date".
He explained: "There is an artist from a Jamaican background, from an Irish and Palestinian background, an artist born in Tanzania and an artist born in Germany.
But they're all part of the British art scene."
Farquharson also said there is "quite a lot of painting" in the exhibition - unlike in some previous years.
He said artists no longer feel that unusual materials and methods are any more innovative than more traditional artforms.
The exhibition is at Hull's Ferens Gallery as part of the UK City of Culture celebrations.
The winner will be named on 5 December and will receive 25,000.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Stuttgart-born Andrea Buttner is based in London and Berlin

Analysis - BBC arts editor Will Gompertz

This year's Turner Prize is an unmitigated disaster for the headline writers of Fleet Street.
There are no enormous backsides to riff off, or unmade beds on which to pour scorn - there's no shock, or sensation, no vulgarity or profanity.
In fact, the most remarkable thing about the 2017 Turner Prize is that it is unremarkable.
All four shortlisted artists can actually paint - if they chose to do so; they largely make their own work, and the political and philosophical points they make are expressed with sense and sensibility.
I suppose a more conservative exhibition was the inevitable outcome of removing the age restriction allowing artists over 50 to be considered for inclusion - as indeed two have this year.
The Turner Prize has grown up.
Read more from Will Gompertz.
Find out more about the nominees

Image copyright David Levene

Hurvin Anderson

For the Turner Prize, having paintings on walls is so traditional that it almost feels radical.
Anderson's images are split roughly into two types.
Firstly there are lush, verdant rainforest-esque vistas, apparently inspired by seeing boys climbing trees in Jamaica and his brother's outings to scrump apples in Birmingham.
Then there are set pieces inside barber shops, with bright blocks of colour framing lonely customers and empty chairs.
One, titled Is It Okay To Be Black?, is a half-remembered view of a barber shop's wall featuring pinned photos of Martin Luther King and Malcolm X.
Image copyright David Levene

Andrea Buttner

German-born Buttner's work is typical of the Turner Prize's newfound humility - her signature pieces are nine simple, line-drawn, black-and-white woodcuts of beggars, while her other work shows a fascination with the lowly and mundane.
One wall is covered in bright yellow high-vis jacket material, upon which are hung what look like three abstract paintings, but which turn out to be enlarged fingerprints from a smartphone.
She is also showing a 1990 peace display dedicated to philosopher and activist Simone Wiel, which has been borrowed from an anti-war museum in Berlin.
Image copyright AFP

Lubaina Himid

Himid's section contains work from the 1980s to today, reflecting her unsung role in art over the past 30 years.
The centrepiece is 1986's The Fashionable Marriage, based on William Hogarth's Marriage a a la Mode, which features a cast of cut-out characters including a flirting Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan.
There are also porcelain dinner sets, found in junk shops.
Himid has painted images of black slaves on some and Hogarth-inspired aristocrats - some of whom are vomiting at the news of the abolition of slavery - on others.
She has also painted over parts of newspaper pages in a witty comment on the way black people are illustrated in the media.
Image copyright David Levene

Rosalind Nashashibi

Nashashibi has turned one wing of the gallery into two mini cinemas, complete with reclaimed vintage cinema seats.
They are screening her two meditative films, which give an insight into life in two different parts of the world.
Electric Gaza is a collection of everyday scenes from the Gaza Strip - from horses being bathed in the sea to people going about their business on unkempt streets - all interspersed with animations.
It's meant to show an alternative to the usual depiction of Gazans as victims.
The other, Vivian's Garden, shows snapshots of mother-and-daughter artists in Guatemala.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright PA Image caption Ballas made her Strictly Come Dancing debut on Saturday night

Shirley Ballas sashayed her way on to the Strictly dance floor for the first time on Saturday - and it's fair to say she received a pretty good reaction.
The Latin expert had to contend with Bruno's accidental groping, gamely laughing it off and carrying on.
And the new head judge did slip up once, calling a contestant the wrong name (it's Chizzy, not Lizzy!).
But overall, it seems the ballroom star did a good job, with one fan tweeting: "At last, a judge who CAN dance."
Ian Waite, star of Strictly's sister show, It Takes Two, was also impressed, saying Ballas was set to be a "great judge".
Comedian Sarah Millican was also feeling the love.
And Rufus Hound agreed, awarding her a 10 out of 10.
Fans of the show were equally excited and were keen to praise her judging style, with many impressed by her professional knowledge and advice.
Several noticed a similarity to former Strictly judge Arlene Phillips, who had to make way on the judging panel for Alesha Dixon, who won the dance contest herself back in 2007.
In fact, Phillips herself retweeted a reference to Shirley - but soon deleted it.
Image copyright Twitter/Arlene Phillips

But she also acknowledged the skills of the new judge and thanked fans for their support.
As for the TV critics, they seemed to like her.
Heidi Stephens wrote in The Guardian: "I quite liked Shirley from the launch show, she talks a lot of sense and has some serious moves.
A worthy substitute for Len, I hope they've paid her enough to warrant being manhandled by Bruno every weekend."
And the Daily Mail's Jan Moir was also a fan.
"She seems determined to be the technically superior but supportive and kindly judge," she wrote.
"Like a mum buying a school blazer in August, she insisted to all the clodhopper contestants that there was 'plenty of room for growth'.
Len wouldn't have been so kind.
Len who?"
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Joe Sugg has just released his third graphic novel of a trilogy

Joe Sugg may be one of YouTube's biggest stars (and the brother of another - Zoella), but he still doesn't see himself as a celebrity.
"You could probably ask any YouTuber in the UK if they'd class themselves as a celebrity, and I guarantee they'd all say no," he tells BBC News.
"And I think that's because we never knew it would get this big, we never knew it would become this scale, at all.
"If you've got someone who wants to be a singer and actor, they already know the pros and cons of that job, whereas we never knew we were getting into something this big, so it's been harder for us to sort of deal with and go along with it."
While he may be slightly embarrassed to admit it, Joe is one of countless YouTubers who have reached the big leagues of fame.
Image caption Joe's sister Zoe (Zoella) has appeared on a celebrity edition of Bake Off

Earlier this year, he, Zoella and her boyfriend Alfie Deyes had to leave the launch of a pop-up shop in Covent Garden because the sheer number of fans that had turned up caused security concerns.
Joe's own YouTube channel has more than eight million subscribers, who watch the 26-year-old do impressions, pranks and dares.
His most popular video to date sees Zoella applying his make-up.
Today, Joe is speaking to the BBC at Forbidden Planet in London as he launches his new book Username: Uprising - the third in a trilogy of graphic novels (the first became the fastest-selling ever for a debut writer in the genre).
He talked to us about writing, vlogging, roof-thatching, and trying to perfect his Donald Trump impression.
Joe hasn't written the book on his own

There was a bit of a palaver when Zoella released her debut novel Girl Online under her own name in 2014, only for it to emerge later that she had co-authored it with a ghostwriter.
Joe is avoiding any such issues by being open about the fact that he works with a team on his series of graphic novels, including a colourist and illustrator.
"I would've liked to have drawn it myself obviously, but time wise, because I've got so many projects going on, three channels to run, I knew it would be impossible, but the great thing with a graphic novel is that it's a collaborative process," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Joe Sugg: Graphic novel provides 'escapism'

"We're all in contact, they'd send me over a few pages at a time and I'd go through and be like 'This is great, but can we change this slightly, or change the expression on this face', and it's been great going back and forth and getting a feel of it being a team effort."
He thinks it's sensible for YouTubers to branch out of YouTube

"I think a lot of YouTubers will go into different avenues because I think that's the smart thing to do - you can't just rely on the one thing," he says.
"We don't know what's going to happen to social media, it could be all shut down one day - not that it will I hope, but you never know.
"So I think it's important to try out different things.
So if you've ever had an interest or a hobby, like me with the graphic novels, explore that, see what you can do with it."
He's got his sister to thank for getting into vlogging

"Zoe started off as a blogger, didn't want to be on camera - and that eventually turned into vlogging.
I was aware of what she was doing at the time, but I was still working five days a week as a roof thatcher," Joe explains.
"So she was starting to get bigger on YouTube and she showed me a lot of the male YouTubers, like Alfie [Deyes], Marcus [Butler], Jim [Chapman], and I'd watch them and think 'This is the sort of stuff I can do, and have been doing throughout my childhood'.
Image caption Zoe was named best British vlogger at BBC Radio 1's Teen Awards in 2014

"I appeared in one of Zoe's videos, that was my entrance to YouTube, and the majority of the comments were saying 'Joe should start his own channel', and that for me was like, okay yeah, if they want it, I'll do it."
He has no plans to release an autobiography

YouTubers have been cranking out books almost as quickly as videos in recent years, many of them autobiographies - but Joe doesn't have any plans to join them just yet.
"I would love to release a memoir at a later date.
I don't think it's right for me yet," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Joe Sugg: An autobiography 'not right for me yet'

"Although I'm 26 now, I just feel like I want to make the book thicker.
But I can understand why a lot of YouTubers have done that - because we don't have ordinary lives."
He jokes: "I've got lots of fun stories to tell but I think I'll wait it out, wait until I can grow facial hair, so could be quite a while off yet!"
He misses working as a roof thatcher

Joe's YouTube channel - Thatcher Joe - isn't a tribute to our former prime minister, but rather a reference to his pre-vlogging days as a roof thatcher.
"It was very much an arty job, making the ornate ridges, the patterns, I did genuinely love the job," he says.
"It was such an important part of what I do now.
"There are a lot of YouTubers who have always thought 'I want to be a YouTuber', and they've gone into it and gotten carried away with that side of it, whereas because I've worked and know what it's like to do a normal job...

"I don't know what it is, but it kind of helps you keep it real, and know how good you've got it."
Joe's musical talents are no threat to Ed Sheeran

"A lot of my audience wanted me to sing, and I was like, why not give it a go - because you never know.
"But nobody heard it," he laughs.
"Which is great; it's been done and dusted, had a go, decided it's not for me, moved on to the next thing."
Image copyright Getty Images

7.
His impressions are both the most popular and most unpopular videos he does

One of Joe's most popular series of videos is his impressions - usually of fictional characters from shows like Family Guy and Sesame Street.
"I like to think of ideas which can become a series," he says.
"I think it's really important to create structures and formats within my videos; things I can to return to later on.
"It's almost like a safety net of having a string of ideas which have more longevity than just a one-off."
But impressions are also some of the most difficult to get right, with Joe describing them as "my most criticised videos".
"There's always one saying 'Oh that was a bit dodgy'.
I never really get that much criticism on my videos, but on the impressions videos, you do get a lot of people that are like 'That wasn't as great as it could be', because it's something where they can compare it to something else."
But there's one impression he still hasn't been able to perfect

"I really wanted to learn how to do Donald Trump properly, purely because of that space of time [when he was elected]," Joe says.
Image copyright AFP

"I thought, there's so much comedy you can get out of that, mastering people who are in the 'now', whoever's got big exposure in the media at the moment, to learn them, but it takes time.
"By the time I've mastered them it's like 'Great, they're irrelevant now', so by the time I've mastered Donald Trump he won't even be president anymore."
Username: Uprising by Joe Sugg is out now

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
From the section

Image caption Bobby Knutt also hosted a request show on BBC Radio Sheffield in the 1990s

Comedian and actor Bobby Knutt has died on holiday in the south of France, his agent has confirmed.
The 71-year-old from Sheffield starred in ITV comedy series Benidorm, played Albert Dingle in Emmerdale and was the voice of a Tetley tea advert.
Mr Knutt's agent, Tim Scott, said the star died in France on Monday morning.
"Knutty" - real name Robert Wass - had a long career on stage.
He appeared in The Comedians and Coronation Street and voiced numerous TV adverts.
More stories from across Yorkshire

A tweet from @BenidormTVShow said: "Benidorm star and Sheffield legend Bobby Knutt passes away aged 71.
Good night Knutty, your Benidorm family loves you.
X"

Derren Litten, writer of Benidorm, wrote: "Very sad Benidorm news guys.
The wonderful Bobby Knutt has passed away suddenly aged 71.
Sending our Beni love to his family."
Image copyright Twitter Image caption Derren Litten, writer of Benidorm, tweeted his condolences to Mr Knutt's family

Mr Knutt also hosted a request show on BBC Radio Sheffield in the 1990s.
His wife, Donna Hartley-Wass, a former Olympic athlete, died suddenly in 2013 at the age of 58 in the couple's back garden in Barnsley while she was sunbathing.
Image copyright Studio 100 Animation Image caption Netflix pulled the offending instalment after a viewer complained

An outline of a penis that appeared in a Maya the Bee episode was the result of "a very bad joke", the makers of the children's animated series have said.
Belgian company Studio 100 said the image was "absolutely inappropriate" and offered apologies "to everybody who has been offended by it".
The image came to light after a viewer posted a clip of the instalment online.
This led to streaming service Netflix removing the episode, entitled King Willi, first broadcast in 2012.
Studio 100 told the BBC the penis, etched on a log in the background of a scene, "obviously results from a very bad joke from one of the 150 artists working on the production".
"This is indeed unacceptable to Studio 100 as owner of the brand and all its affiliates and doesn't reflect the quality of our work and our values," it continued.
The Paris-based company said it was "very sorry" and that it was "taking all suitable technical measures to remedy the situation".
Netflix has made no comment on the offending image, apart from clarifying that Maya the Bee is not available to its UK subscribers.
The series - based on a character created by German author Waldemar Bonsels - tells of a friendly bee and other anthropomorphised insects.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Cumberbatch starred alongside Kelly Macdonald in the 90-minute drama

A BBC One drama starring Benedict Cumberbatch as a man whose daughter goes missing has had a mixed reception - with one viewer calling it the "worst episode of Sherlock ever".
The Guardian described The Child in Time as "a deeply affecting portrait of loss", while the Telegraph applauded "a rewarding story of private pain".
But viewers were less impressed by the adaptation of Ian McEwan's 1987 novel.
Some said the non-linear narrative was just too confusing.
"Did anyone else get lost in the supermarket with Kate or was it just me?"
one viewer, Laura, asked on Twitter.
Daniel Joseph decided it was "utter garbage", with William Stafford tweeting that it was the "worst episode of Sherlock ever".
Image caption Other scenes saw Elliot Levey (holding a pen) play the Prime Minister

Broadcast on Sunday night, The Child in Time saw Cumberbatch play a children's author who loses his four-year-old while on a shopping trip.
The narrative jumped between flashbacks to this traumatic event with scenes set in the present, which showed the impact of the loss on Cumberbatch's Stephen and his wife Julie, played by Kelly Macdonald.
"It wasn't exactly Poldark," wrote Jim Shelley in the Daily Mail, who said the 90-minute drama was "not so much unsettling to watch as just odd".
His befuddlement was shared by Twitter user Duleep Allirajah, who said he had gone "from horrified to confused to bored in a very short space of time".
"If anyone could explain to me what on earth is going on it would be much appreciate[d]," tweeted Sarah Baker.
Yet there was more praise for Cumberbatch and Macdonald's performances, which Alice Hancock thought were "absolutely incredible".
Metro's Joe Gamp said the Sherlock star was "on top form", while The Times' Carol Midgley said he "put in easily the best performance".
The Child in Time drew an average audience of 4.5 million viewers on Sunday, according to overnight figures.
That put it narrowly ahead of the fifth instalment of ITV's royal drama Victoria, which also started at 21:00 BST and attracted 4.2 million viewers.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jean-Michel Basquiat was at his happiest in the early days of his career, says his friend Jennifer Stein

It's almost 30 years since Jean-Michel Basquiat died in New York.
Aged just 27, he'd been acclaimed as a major visual artist with roots in street graffiti.
Now a big exhibition of his work has opened at the Barbican in London.
His friend Jennifer Stein remembers working with Basquiat in the early days - which she thinks were his happiest.
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jean-Michel Basquiat's work was grounded in graffiti

Jennifer von Holstein - otherwise known as Jennifer Stein - is jetlagged from her long flight from Seattle.
She's in London for the new exhibition Basquiat: Boom for Real.
She's exhausted but nonetheless delighted to talk about the comprehensive survey at the Barbican of the short, brilliant career of her friend Basquiat.
These days she lives in rural Washington State in the US Pacific Northwest.
Her husband makes church organs and she has three children, all of whom - she points out - are now older than Basquiat was when he died of an overdose in 1988.
She says it seems a different world, but she recalls Basquiat with real affection.
Image copyright Jennifer Stein Image caption Jennifer Stein says she now understands better what went wrong for Jean-Michel Basquiat

"I think having nurtured a family of my own means I look back on those days with an insight I didn't possess before.
And I see more clearly what went wrong for Jean-Michel."
In 1979 she met Basquiat at a party in a loft on Canal Street in Manhattan, where she was living.
"People in the art world had been talking about a mysterious new graffiti artist called SAMO who was tagging sites in New York.
Then Jean-Michel spray-painted graffiti on the interior wall of the loft and I ran over and grabbed him and said, 'I've been looking for you'.
And he looked at me and smiled the hugest smile in the world.
He asked why I was there and I said well I live here.
And that was the start of a wonderful friendship."
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jean-Michel Basquiat and Jennifer Stein produced postcard works together

Basquiat has sometimes been portrayed as having escaped poverty.
In reality, he was the educated son of a middle-class Haitian-Puerto Rican family, who set his sights on a career in art.
Vital to that career was meeting and becoming friends with Andy Warhol a few months after he met Jennifer Stein.
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jennifer Stein says she's delighted by the Barbican exhibition

"Jean-Michel was really taken that, in my room on Canal Street, I had a whole series of baseball cards that I'd painted the faces out of.
He laughed so hard and then he took the white correction fluid I was using and started to write names on the cards."
Jennifer saw that their artistic contributions together meant the cards became unusual and attractive - and might even sell.
"We weren't much more than kids and neither of us had money.
So we Xeroxed these colourful cards and sold them on the street.
We carried a big placard around and shouted postcards for sale - $1!
"We did that all day and some days we'd maybe make $5 and there was one day we made $20 - that was a big deal.
Most people looked at us and the way we were acting and at these crazy, arty cards and just ignored us.
But I think people with a sense of humour enjoyed the way Jean-Michel and I made the cards and I'm thrilled to see them on display in London."
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jean-Michel Basquiat wasn't even 20 when art dealers began to take notice of his brightly-coloured work

Stein says the cards have mostly been hidden away for years.
"But I could see that Eleanor Nairne at the Barbican was going to curate the new show beautifully and she did a great job making me see the art world would love to have these examples of Jean-Michel's work before all the money and all the fame."
Basquiat wasn't even 20 when art dealers began to take notice of his brightly-coloured work, which rapidly developed from graffiti roots.
Soon he had no need to walk the streets touting $1 postcards.
Stein saw her friend's rapid ascent into the artistic stratosphere.
"I understand how it happened and I watched it happen - but it doesn't seem real.
I think it didn't seem real for him either.
I feel in many ways he should have been more nurtured by the people who gave him the success.
It started in an overnight flash, an explosion.
Jean-Michel's whole career was just a decade before his death at the age of 27."
Image copyright Estate of Jean-Michel Basquiat Image caption Jean-Michel Basquiat's death from a heroin overdose made him the equivalent of a rock star in the art world

Stein says becoming a mother later gave an extra perspective on her friend's career and early death.
"I see now that that age isn't old enough to make sense of that amount of money and all the fame and attention.
Maybe he would still be with us today if those people who facilitated his career had seen that though he was an artistic genius, inside he was really a very young person.
They should have known that."
The painter's death of a heroin overdose came when he was 27 - a fact which tended to cement his image as the art world equivalent of a rock star.
Stein says the comparison is a valid one.
"In many ways he was a rock star.
And the more I've looked since at the trajectory of his life, the more I realise that in the 1980s Jean-Michel was not looked after by the people who needed to look after him."
Stein looked on as Basquiat's career took off, apparently without limits.
"But I don't think that part was the happiest for him.
The happy time for Jean-Michel was from about the point I met him through maybe 1982 or '83.
It was that era of making the postcards.
It was pre-drugs, pre-money, pre-fame.
Freewheeling and being a nut - that was what Jean-Michel loved."
Basquiat: Boom for Real is at the Barbican in London until 28 January 2018.
Image copyright Levi Strauss

Chip Bergh has the air of man at ease with the world.
But things could have turned out very different, given what he calls his "dysfunctional" childhood.
The 60-year-old chief executive of Levi Strauss, dressed in regulation blue jeans and denim shirt, readily admits to be being "blessed and lucky".
Six years into his successful turnaround of the once struggling US clothing firm, he says the job still gives him a "wow" feeling.
Mr Bergh and his family also love their San Francisco lifestyle, where the vegan boss pursues a passion for marathons and triathlons.
So, professionally and personally, things are going well for the former Procter & Gamble (P&G) executive.
But growing up in the suburbs of New York City there were times when he felt neither blessed nor lucky.
Mr Bergh's father was an advertising salesman working 14-hour days.
He was also an alcoholic.
Image copyright Devaki Knowles

There could be "lots of screaming and yelling" at home, Mr Bergh recalls.
"Mum and dad were always getting in fights."
One day his mother threatened to throw out his dad.
"That was a wake up call," says Mr Bergh.
His father then finally went to Alcoholics Anonymous, cleaned himself up and never touched another drop.
"I'm proud that my dad recovered," says Mr Bergh.
"He rebuilt his life."
Mr Bergh's childhood wasn't unhappy.
"I had a lot of friends, played a lot of sport, and went to a great school," he says.
But as the eldest of three children he says he shouldered much of the domestic discord, and grew up fast.
It left its mark and is in part behind his drive to succeed, he thinks.
It also left a determination not to repeat some of his father's mistakes.
"I'm pretty level-headed," says Mr Bergh.
"There's not a lot that really upsets me.
I'm not a yeller and screamer, at home or work.
I'm pretty relaxed."
And he doesn't drink.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption Levi Strauss emigrated to the US from Germany in 1853 when he was 18

So, how does Mr Bergh sum up his management style?
"Very open, honest, transparent.
What you see is what you get."
He insists he's "really down to earth", adding: "I put my pants on the same way everybody else does - one leg at a time."
Just don't confuse this regular-guy image with a lack of steel, as Mr Bergh's overhaul of Levi's has been radical, some might say brutal.
The company was created in 1873 when San Francisco-based wholesale merchant Levi Strauss and a business partner patented a way to strengthen denim trousers using copper rivets.
The rest as they say is history.
Through slick advertising and campaigning on social and political issues (such as donating millions to HIV/Aids charities), Levi's punched above its weight for decades.
Stories were common in the 1960s and 1970s of young Westerners packing Levi's jeans in their luggage to help barter their way through holidays behind the Iron Curtain.
If ever a brand deserved the label "iconic", Levi's was it.
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The Levi 501 jeans are arguably the company's single most important product

But by the time Mr Bergh took over in 2011, the company he calls the original Silicon Valley start-up "had lost its way".
Annual sales peaked in 1997 at $7.1bn (5.3bn).
"We were bigger than Nike then," says Mr Bergh.
"Nike aspired to be like Levi's."
But Levi's lost its knack of combining heritage with changing trends, and by the early 2000s sales had fallen to $4bn.
As competition increased rapidly from the likes of Walmart and Gap, Levi's had also been borrowing heavily, chiefly to buy out scores of Strauss family descendants, and consolidate ownership.
Mr Bergh says the result was that the firm found it had to "cut costs, cut marketing, to save cash".
Levi's board ultimately decided it needed a fresh pair of hands, and so turned to Mr Bergh, who had the brand expertise and international experience it wanted.
After 28 years at P&G, most latterly working on the Old Spice deodorant and razors accounts, Mr Bergh saw a chance to fulfil an ambition to become a chief executive.
"It was too good an opportunity to pass," he says.
"It was an opportunity to make a difference, and leave a legacy."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chip Bergh is not afraid to "double denim"

All too aware that Levi's was struggling, Mr Bergh sent the firm's then top 60 managers six questions about the pros and cons of the business - and started interviewing each of them.
"But by about the 15th interview it was pretty clear what needed to be done," he says.
"There was no strategy, there was no alignment across the organisation... People were frustrated."
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world:

Mr Bergh invested in facilities, broadened the clothing range (especially womenswear), and expanded in relatively untapped markets such as Russia, China and India.
The ecommerce operation, previously outsourced and treated almost as an after-thought, was brought in-house, modernised and expanded.
Mr Bergh also changed the top team at the business.
Within 18 months of his appointment, nine of the 11-member executive team had left.
Of the current 150 senior managers, two-thirds have been with the company for three years or less.
He says: "We needed to change not just the business but the culture, and the best way to change the culture is to change the leadership."
Image copyright Levi Strauss Image caption The original US patent for riveted jeans, from 1873

Mr Bergh admits the clear out was dramatic, sometimes traumatic, but says: "You always have to do the harder right than the easier wrong."
Did he learn such decisiveness in the army, which he joined for two years after school?
Making quick decisions was certainly part of the skill-set, he says.
But the army also taught him about leadership.
"It's wrong that the army is all about deference and saluting seniors," he says.
"You have to earn respect, build trust, be willing to make decisions, coach people and train people - all those skills are transferable to the corporate world."
The army's downside was that promotion moved slowly, and Mr Bergh wanted to "move ahead quickly".
A recruitment firm found him a job at P&G.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Chip Bergh on letting staff go with dignity

Levi's turnaround seems to be succeeding, with 2017 expected to see the fifth consecutive year of profits growth.
Retail analyst Marshal Cohen, of market research group NPD, says that yet again Levi's has been able to "reinvent" itself to a new generation.
However, Mr Bergh says the job is far from finished.
"We have made really good progress.
It's been harder and taken longer than I expected.
"I'm not satisfied with where we are.
We still have a lot more work to do."
Image copyright PA Image caption Former JLS singer Aston Merrygold impressed the judges in the first live episode of this year's Strictly Come Dancing

The first live episode of this year's Strictly Come Dancing beat ITV rival The X Factor in the TV ratings battle.
An average audience of 9.3m watched on BBC One on Saturday night as 15 new celebrities hit the dance floor.
That compared with an average of 4.8m for The X Factor, which overlapped with Strictly for 45 minutes.
The X Factor's audience fell by 1.5m on last week.
This series' launch show had the lowest opening viewership - about six million - since 2004.
The figures for both shows will rise once those watching them on catch-up services are added.
Celebrities including Debbie McGee, The Reverend Richard Coles and actor Gemma Atkinson performed their first routines during a bumper two-and-a-half hour episode of Strictly.
Also taking part was Alexandra Burke, who won The X Factor herself in 2008.
The audience peaked at 10.2m, making it the most watched programme of the day.
Former JLS singer Aston Merrygold topped the leader board after Saturday's programme, performing a jazzy foxtrot with partner Janette Manrara.
Comedian Brian Conley and TV presenter Ruth Langsford wound up joint last.
On The X Factor, 16-year-old Rai-Elle Williams from Croydon, south London, impressed judges Simon Cowell and Sharon Osbourne.
Cowell compared her to a "canary who bites your hand off".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bradley, seen on tour in June 2017, before the sudden cancellation of his winter tour

Charles Bradley, a soul singer who found fame in his later years, has died from cancer aged 68.
The former James Brown impersonator, nicknamed "the screaming eagle of soul" released his first album No Time For Dreaming in 2011, aged 62.
He had recently returned to live performance after receiving treatment for stomach cancer late last year.
His death came just two weeks after the remainder of his 2017 tour dates were cancelled due to illness.
Charles Bradley spent much of his life working odd jobs as a handyman - and some of it living on the streets, sleeping in subway cars in New York City.
But he continued to pursue music, having been inspired by the singer James Brown during a performance he saw as a teenager.
He was eventually signed to a New York label in the early 2000s, securing a spot as the opening act on tour for soul revival singer Sharon Jones - who died last year aged 60.
He recorded a string of singles before the release of No Time for Dreaming a decade later.
It was named one of Rolling Stone magazine's best albums of the year.
His critical success led to live performances at some of the world's top music festivals, including Glastonbury, Coachella, and Primavera Sound.
His rags-to-riches story was the subject of the documentary Charles Bradley: Soul of America.
It followed Bradley from his initial signing to the record label, living in crippling debt, to his sold-out album release show.
Speaking to the BBC's Craig Charles show in 2013, Bradley spoke about his difficult journey to stardom.
"I've been out there, ever since I was 16, doing music and searching for it - but I just never could find the people that really believed in me.
It took a long time coming, but God, I'm glad it's here," he said.
But he admitted: "I just wish I'd have gotten my break when I was in my 20s."
Skip Twitter post by @Antibalas RIP to our dear brother Charles Bradley.
Your heart was too big for this planet.
See you on the other side.
We love you.
Antibalas (@Antibalas) September 23, 2017 Report

"I felt very bittersweet, because I've been looking for it for so long," he said.
And when asked about the "soul" and "experience" in his voice, he simply replied: "It's hurt."
Earlier in September, when announcing the tour's cancellation, a message attributed to Bradley on his social media accounts said: "I love all of you out there that made my dreams come true.
"When I come back, I'll come back strong, with God's love.
With God's will, I'll be back soon."
Confirming news of Bradley's death, his publicist said: "Mr Bradley was truly grateful for all the love he's received from his fans and we hope his message of love is remembered and carried on."
Image copyright Fitzwilliam Museum Image caption X-rays reveal how artist Edgar Degas built his wax sculptures

Scientists have used X-ray images to show that the artist Edgar Degas used everyday objects, such as wine bottle corks, to bulk out his wax sculptures.
Only three of the artist's rare beeswax creations - depicting dancers - are held in the UK.
Conservation scientists at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge have analysed the sculptures ahead of an exhibition of Degas's work.
The unorthodox method was discovered when the fragile pieces were X-rayed.
Edgar Degas died on 27 September 1917, at the age of 83.
The artist was famous for his oils on canvas and prints and identified particularly with the subject of dance.
One of his most notable artworks is the bronze Little Dancer of Fourteen Years, which is held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
Image copyright Fitzwilliam Museum Image caption Degas's wax sculpture Dancer Bowing

The trio of dancer sculptures in Cambridge - Dancer Bowing, Dancer with a Tambourine and Arabesque over Right Leg, Left Arm in Front - are rarely put on public display because of their fragility.
All are modelled in beeswax and are impressed with Degas's fingerprints.
A spokesperson for the Fitzwilliam Museum said: "The use of ordinary shop-bought armatures, wine bottle cork and old floorboards, confirm Degas to have been a highly unorthodox sculptor who used unconventional working practices, in terms of materials and technique, which resulted in the frequent loss of his wax sculpture."
Image copyright Fitzwilliam Museum Image caption Arabesque over Right Leg, Left Arm in Front by Edgar Degas

The works were among 75 pieces discovered in Degas's studio in Paris after his death 100 years ago.
The majority are now held in the National Gallery of Art, in Washington, USA.
Many were cast in bronze after his death but a number of original, experimental wax sculptures still exist.
It's believed Degas "bulked out" a wire frame within each piece by adding lightweight domestic objects he had lying around his studio.
Wine bottle corks were used as fillers in the head, chest and abdomen cavity of the Dancer with a Tambourine, experts revealed.
Image copyright Fitzwilliam Museum Image caption Dancer with Tambourine by Edgar Degas

Victoria Avery, keeper of applied arts at the Fitzwilliam Museum said: "Degas defied tradition as well as contemporary practice to resist having his sculpture cast in bronze.
"It is therefore deeply ironic that Degas's fragile and deliberately ephemeral, one-of-a-kind sculptures are now best known from their durable bronze serial casts, displayed in public and private collections across the globe."
Degas: A Passion for Perfection, opens at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge on 3 October.
Image caption The portrait of the Duke of Buckingham dates from around 1625

A "lost" portrait by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens has been rediscovered after almost 400 years.
The 17th Century Flemish artist's "head study" of the Duke of Buckingham was identified by Dr Bendor Grosvenor from BBC Four's Britain's Lost Masterpieces.
It was in Glasgow Museums' collection and on public display at the city's Pollok House stately home.
But overpainting and centuries of dirt meant it was thought to be a later copy by another artist.
The restored portrait of George Villiers, the 1st Duke of Buckingham, was authenticated as a Rubens by Ben van Beneden, director of the Rubenshuis in Antwerp.
He said it was a "rare addition to Rubens's portrait oeuvre, showing how he approached the genre".
Dr Grosvenor said: "The chance to discover a portrait of such a pivotal figure in British history by one of the greatest artists who ever lived has been thrillingly exciting."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Over-painting and centuries of dust were removed to reveal Rubens' original artwork

Councillor David McDonald, chairman of Glasgow Life, said: "Unsurprisingly we are beyond delighted to discover the painting is by Rubens, an artist renowned globally as one of the most important painters in history."
The portrait of the duke in a doublet with an elaborate lace collar and a sash dates from around 1625.
He was a controversial figure in the Jacobean era who rose from minor nobility to become one of the favourites of James I, who was James VI in Scotland.
The nature of their relationship has been the source of much debate.
Some experts claim they were lovers, while others believe it was a close platonic friendship.
Image copyright NAtional Trust/PA Image caption The nature of the relationship between King James I (above) and the Duke of Buckingham has been the subject of much debate

Renovation work carried out by English Heritage at Apethorpe Palace in Northamptonshire, one of the king's favourite residences, revealed a secret passage linking the two men's bedchambers.
The Duke was assassinated in 1628 at the age of just 35, three years after James died.
Overpainting of the background and other areas by a later artist, along with hundreds of years of dust and dirt, had obscured Rubens' work.
But scientific analysis of the wood it was painted on dated it to the 1620s, and found it had been prepared in a way done by Rubens' studio.
Additional cleaning and x-rays of the hair showed it was not a copy but was by the artist himself.
The painting underwent conservation work by restorer Simon Gillespie to return it to its original appearance.
It will go on display at Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum in Glasgow on Thursday.
The painting will feature in the first programme of the new series of Britain's Lost Masterpieces at 21:00 BST on BBC Four on 27 September.
Image copyright Reuters

British actor Colin Firth has become an Italian citizen, the country's authorities have confirmed.
His wife - film producer Livia Giuggioli - is Italian, making the Oscar-winning Bridget Jones star eligible for citizenship there.
The 56-year-old now has dual citizenship and can therefore keep his British passport.
Firth said he had applied for an Italian passport because of "the uncertainty around".
The actor said that he has been connected to Italy "for more than two decades now".
"I was married there and had two children born in Rome," he added.
He said that his wife was applying for a British passport also, and both his children have dual citizenship.
He added: "We never really thought much about our different passports.
"But now, with some of the uncertainty around, we thought it sensible that we should all get the same."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Colin Firth has been married to Italian Livia Giuggioli since 1997

The Italian interior ministry, which confirmed Firth had been granted a passport, said: "The very famous actor, who won an Oscar for the film The King's Speech, is married to a citizen from our country and has often declared his love for our land."
Firth, who won best actor at the 2011 Oscars for his portrayal of King George in The King's Speech, has been married since 1997.
He added: "I will always be extremely British (you only have to look at or listen to me).
"Britain is our home and we love it here."
He said that he will continue to base his career out of the UK, but added: "Anyone will tell you when you marry an Italian you don't just marry one person; you marry a family and perhaps an entire country.
"Like almost everybody I have a passionate love of Italy and joining my wife and kids in being dual citizens will be a huge privilege."
From the section

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Reverend Richard Coles and Good Morning Britain's Charlotte Hawkins are raring to go

After two weeks of rehearsals, this year's Strictly Come Dancing stars are preparing to return to the dance floor this weekend for the first live show of the series.
Here's what they had to say when we caught up with them earlier this month.
The Reverend Richard Coles

"There's a dog collar being pimped apparently, we're quite excited about that."
"I was preaching quite a fierce sermon recently and a piece of glitter fell out of my hair."
"I'm going to need a miracle.
It's 'let us spray' at the moment."
"I'm going to have to launch myself across a dancefloor, which I haven't done since Ibiza in 1990.
And it wasn't pretty then, believe me."
"I'm very happy to volunteer to dance with Aljaz anywhere, any place, any time."
Charlotte Hawkins

"I jumped at the chance [to do Strictly].
It was a no-brainer for me.
It's afterwards when people go 'it's really full on, it's going to be scary.'"
"You've just got to throw yourself into it and love every minute."
On Good Morning Britain co-host Piers Morgan: "He's very excited.
Piers said we're going to have fun with this - but that sounded more of a threat."
"I'm looking forward to the ones [where] you've got a bit of performance and attitude - it's amazing to have that opportunity where you give it some."
On being one of this year's favourites to win: "I don't know how they work out the odds because they haven't seen us dance!"
Image caption Burke will dance with Gorka Marquez on the show

Alexandra Burke

"I am very nervous - it makes me want to throw up because my anxiety shoots through the roof when I think about live shows.
I know this is a really funny thing to say coming from someone who won a TV show nine years ago but I hate cameras."
"The moment that I found out that I was going to take part in Strictly, I cancelled everything.
I cancelled my album, my single, recording, everything.
My mum always said to me, 'be great at one thing, and the rest will follow.'"
"Because I was a nun for a year [for Sister Act: The Musical] wearing flat shoes, I've been trying to wear heels a lot more just to try and give my ankles a bit more strength."
On how far she'll go in the contest: "I want to get as far as my body and my partner can take!"
Image caption Langsford has been partnered with Anton Du Beke

Ruth Langsford

"Everything has this Strictly excitement about it, which is very glamorous - things you don't get to do every day."
Asked if she would wear skimpy outfits: "I'll only be getting my kit off privately in the spray tan booth."
On the show's costumes: "It's amazing, they gave me a waist - I hadn't seen that waist for a long time."
On keeping her appearance in the show a secret: "I quite enjoyed the whole rumour mill.
Contrary to popular belief, I've not been asked to do Strictly before - because not in a million years would I have turned it down."
What her husband Eamonn Holmes said (with tongue in cheek) when asked about the "Strictly curse": "One man's curse could be another man's blessing."
Image caption EastEnders star Ghadami is paired with new professional dancer Nadiya Bychkova

Davood Ghadami

"There's always something to look forward to [on Strictly].
It seems like a non-stop rollercoaster where you're looking to the next thing."
On the outfits: "We've tried the skimpy, rhinestone-laden clothes and frankly they're very comfortable and fun to wear."
Asked if he would be showing off his chest: "If the dance calls for it, maybe later on in the competition if it's standard in week three, four or five we'll do it."
On how his on-screen mum reacted to him being on the show: "Bonnie Langford couldn't help herself.
As soon as she found out, she threw herself at me and we had a little dance."
"We're all going to look back in years to come and say 'we were part of that'."
Image caption Professional dancer AJ Pritchard looked chuffed to be paired up with Mollie King

Mollie King

On whether being pop stars gives her and Aston Merrygold an advantage: "I think we're used to being disciplined to a certain degree.
But there's an expectation that people have and I think, Aston and I, we feel we're both terrified, it's a whole new world for both of us."
"We don't want to look like complete wallies.
There's so much for us to learn."
"Obviously we're lucky that we have performance experience but it's a whole new world of dance, which is just madness."
On the sparkly outfits: "You go into a fitting and it's the most sequinned glittery dress you've ever seen, and they go to you: 'Obviously it's not glittery enough so we'll be adding more'.
And you're like, 'what?'"
On the chances of winning: "Everybody who's taking part, obviously it's their dream to lift the glitterball trophy - but I just want to learn as many dances as possible, that's my aim.
And get a few spray tans."
Image caption Aston was hoping for a short partner so was relieved when he was teamed with Janette Manrara

Aston Merrygold

"I'm actually just excited to try a whole new form of performance.
You forget it's a competition."
"You want to see everyone pull through."
On preparing to be a new dad: "I'm trying to get the daddy stuff done in the morning and the rehearsals in the afternoons."
On training to get in shape for the skimpy outfits: "I'm not as nimble as I used to be.
There's a lot of glitter - I've been Strictly-fied."
"I personally would just love to get to the final, to do all the weeks and learn everything on the way and learn all the different styles.
But it doesn't feel like a competition."
Image caption McGee, pictured with Tess Daly and Giovanni Pernice, is the widow of magician Paul Daniels

Debbie McGee

On doing ballet dancing in the past: "Strictly has changed over the years.
At the beginning it really was that you didn't have any training.
Lots of people have done it now who have.
I did train as a ballet dancer over 30 years ago.
But it's like if you were at school and really good at high jump, and 35 years later you're asked to enter a competition and you've got to do long jump."
On late husband Paul Daniels, who previously took part in the show: "He would love it.
He always wanted me to do it.
He'd be smiling down on me, that's for sure."
Image caption Susan Calman has a poster of her dance partner Kevin Clifton in her kitchen

Susan Calman

On having a moment with professional Gorka: "When I walked into the dressing rooms, one of the male dancers, I'm not going to say who - Gorka - had his top off.
And I've actively avoided any contact with the male species for my entire life.
And I went.... 'he's beautiful!'"
"I went home and my wife was like, 'how's it going?'
And there aren't words to process what's happening."
On her fellow contestants: "We're all in the same boat - we're all going to learn how to dance."
Image caption Karen Clifton said she was pleased to be partnered with chef Simon Rimmer - because he'll bring good food to rehearsals

Simon Rimmer

"I feel I've made 14 new friends, whatever else happens.
I know more about Joe and Davood than I do about people I've known 10 years."
"It's like a holiday romance.
The minute you meet each other, you have to bond quickly because you're all in the same terrifying situation."
"There's two WhatsApp groups.
There's the official one which everyone involved in Strictly gets to see.
Then there's the private one we have with the dancers which they don't get to see, which is the proper fun one."
On his family's reaction to him taking part: "My wife rolled her eyes and shook her head."
Image caption McFadden looked both excited and nervous when he was paired with Katya Jones

Joe McFadden

On the whole Strictly experience: "We're all thrown together and going through this crazy thing together."
On appearing in Holby at the same time as Strictly: "They've assured me they're going to give me some light storylines.
It's filmed across the road - I always wanted to see what goes on over here and now I can."
"We're all getting rhinestone envy a bit.
Jonnie had one the other day that was all different colours - it was really nice - and we had plain ones."
Image caption Atkinson and Aljaz Skorjanec are possibly the tallest couple in the contest

Gemma Atkinson

"It sounds really cheesy but we're in a nice bubble and we're all in it together.
It's all good."
"My worst fear is - you know when you run up the stairs after you dance?
Falling off the stairs - that for me is more nerve-wracking.
You're going to be wobbly and out of breath."
"My family have all been saying 'You've done so well, it's amazing but it would be good if you could do Strictly.'
So they're all going to come down.
Everything's happened at the right time."
Image caption Akudolu and Pasha Kovalev are wasting no time

Chizzy Akudolu

"Forgetting the dance is the biggest fear.
And falling down the stairs - but if we fall, we just pose and get up again."
On advice from previous contestants: "I know Tameka [Empson] who did it last year - she said 'enjoy it, enjoy it, enjoy it.'
She would have loved to go further and said 'I'm going to live it through you.'"
"I'm dreading the waltz - it just hurts your legs!
I've never done anything like that, and holding your arms up like that for a while, your back muscles"

"I think our personalities change the minute we've got our make-up on, and the hair and the dresses.
I become Aretha - that's my nickname."
Image caption Peacock and Oti Mabuse were all smiles after being paired up

Jonnie Peacock

"It's a whirlwind at the moment - I'm just trying to enjoy it as much as possible.
And then you sit at home and you get really nervous that you're actually doing it."
On seeing Davood at a costume fitting: "I got to stare at this lovely man's derriere in a pair of tight Latin trousers - there's not many better sights."
On whether being an athlete will be an advantage: "Athletics is quite a high-impact sport.
It's going to be very different but that's what I'm really looking forward to.
I'm not sure it's an advantage because it's so far removed."
On advice on training from former contestant Greg Rutherford: "I had a text from Greg saying - 'they'll say it's 12 hours, it's more like 40.'"
Image caption Conley gave the thumbs up to his partner Amy Dowden

Brian Conley

"It's so special.
It's the biggest show on national television and the level of professionalism from everyone is second to none.
And we get very posh cars picking us up - my car had a massage chair.
I've never been in a car so posh!"
"I'm very excited - genuinely excited.
I love the show, my family have, so you do feel you know it.
But you work so hard all week for one-and-a-half minutes live to the nation and worry that something silly might go wrong.
You just want to do your best."
On working with judge Craig Revel Horwood in the past: "I was really worried about working with Craig - it was on a show about Neil Diamond.
But he was a pussycat.
I'm sure he won't be on this!
He's so knowledgeable - that man knows his stuff.
He's known as the 'evil one' but what he says is very constructive and it's good to take that on board."
On only getting two tickets for friends and family per show: "I'm selling mine on eBay - 10 grand each.
I want to stay in the show so I could make 20 grand a week."
Strictly Come Dancing is on BBC One on Saturday at 18:25 BST.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Take a look back at the week's biggest stories in the world of arts and entertainment.
Image copyright Joshua Brandao

In an exclusive interview with the BBC News website, Madonna revealed she is contemplating a more intimate live show that her usual stadium-filling spectacles.
"I've done so many shows - world tours, stadiums, sports arenas, you name it - that I feel like I have to reinvent that now too," she told our music reporter Mark Savage.
Read the full story.
Image copyright Reuters

Big Little Lies and The Handmaid's Tale were the big winners at the Emmy awards, winning five awards each at the Los Angeles ceremony.
British winners included The Night Of star Riz Ahmed and Charlie Brooker, who won a writing award for Black Mirror.
Read the full story.
The first photo of Michael Sheen and David Tennant as they will appear in the upcoming TV adaptation of cult novel Good Omens was released to mark the beginning of filming.
Tennant plays the demon Crowley, while Sheen is the angel Aziraphale in the latest incarnation of Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman's 1990 collaboration.
Read the full story.
Image copyright Warner Bros/Getty Images

A poster for the upcoming Tomb Raider film got the wrong sort of publicity, with more people interested in Alicia Vikander's neck than the movie itself.
Directed by Norway's Roar Uthaug, the latest screen outing for Lara Croft - previously played on screen by Angelina Jolie - reaches cinemas next March.
Read the full story.
Image copyright Getty Images

Oscar-winning actress Emma Stone revealed she started therapy for anxiety when she was seven years old.
Stone, 28, showed US interviewer Stephen Colbert a drawing she made in therapy aged nine, and talked about how acting has helped her feel less anxious.
"I still have anxiety to this day but not panic attacks," she said.
Read the full story.
Image copyright FremantleMedia Ltd/REX/Shutterstock

This was also the week we said goodbye to William G Stewart, the TV producer and director who spent 15 years as the host of quiz show 15 to 1.
Stewart was a former Butlins redcoat who began his television career behind the camera, died after a short illness, his agents confirmed.
Read the full story.
BBC One is bringing music back to primetime TV on a Friday night, with Sounds Like Friday Night - the first regular, mainstream music show since Top of the Pops was cancelled in 2006.
Greg James and A.Dot have been announced as the hosts.
Broadcast live from Television Centre, it promises to feature "the hottest bands and artists in the world", alongside interviews and sketches.
Read the full story.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Blink 182, and members of System of a Down, Korn, Bring Me the Horizon and Avenged Sevenfold are among the acts playing a special gig in memory of Chester Bennington.
The Linkin Park singer took his own life in July.
The gig - at the Hollywood Bowl in the US in October - has already sold out.
Although no official line-up has been announced yet, acts have been confirming their involvement on Twitter.
Chester Bennington fronted Linkin Park for nearly 20 years.
In that time they sold more than 70 million albums worldwide and won two Grammy Awards.
Earlier this week his former band mates announced they would play together again in his memory.
"Linkin Park announce a special show in honour of Chester," the message on the band's website reads, "[we] will be joined by a number of other artists, for an unforgettable night of music to honour the man that touched the lives of so many around the world."
William Ryan Key from Yellowcard and Kiiara are also taking part.
Korn's guitarist, Brian 'Head' Welch, has posted on Instagram to let fans know he'll be there - despite facing heavy criticism for comments he made in the wake of Chester Bennington's suicide.
He described it as a "cowardly way out".
But, in this latest post, he says Linkin Park have "forgiven" him.
"When I heard the news about our friend Chester Bennington I was so sad, hurt and angry.
In my shock and confusion I didn't know how to process my feelings correctly," he explains.
"I spoke out from a broken heart and I want to thank the LP camp, and all of my friends and fans for the forgiveness, understanding and grace that was extended to me."
Linkin Park say they'll donate their fees from the event to a fund set up in Chester Bennington's memory.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Later... with Jools Holland turns 25 this year, after more than 350 shows and over a thousand musical guests.
To celebrate, the programme abandoned its home in Maidstone for a gala concert at the Royal Albert Hall.
Among the guests were Foo Fighters, Van Morrison, Dizzee Rascal and Malian band Songhoy Blues.
The results will be screened on BBC Two on Saturday night, but here are some of the things we learned behind the scenes.
Taylor Hawkins was playing hide and seek

Foo Fighters' star Dave Grohl (pictured with Jools) sang the first verse of Best of You solo, accompanied by just his guitar, but the rest of the band needed to be ready to jump in for the second chorus.
It was easy enough for guitarist Pat Smear and bassist Nate Mendel, who just waited off stage in the wings.
Drummer Taylor Hawkins had no such luck.
With his kit pressed up against the seats, he had no graceful way to enter the stage; so he lay on the floor, arms perched on his drum stool, for three uncomfortable minutes.
It's the show stars want to appear on

The gala concert came with a commemorative booklet, filled with tributes from the acts who've appeared on Later... over the last 25 years.
"For me it was the path to success," said Ed Sheeran.
"Anyone that went on Jools Holland from my circuit went on to achieve great things."
Metallica's Lars Ulrich said the programme was "unlike any other show" he'd played.
"The format of the bands setting up basically in a big circle and facing each other, playing to each other, channels a vibe."
It's "a fine line between camaraderie and competition", he added.
Kasabian, though, had an axe to grind.
"You never let us on our first album and we were devastated.
You said we were too loud."
A good stage manager is invaluable

The most indispensible person in Jools's team is the floor manager, Sam Ribeck, who runs circles around the arena, carefully keeping out of shot, and making sure the presenter can see the handwritten cue cards with details of the next performer.
By complete coincidence, we were sitting next to the show's former camera supervisor, who told us the stage manager holding up the cards was none other than Roy Castle's daughter, Antonia.
The show is completely seamless

Sitting at home, you might imagine there are a few crafty edits to make all the musicians look good - but no: The entire show was filmed in one continuous take, from start to finish, with only one retake (we won't say who, it was a technical problem, not a vocal one!).
Image copyright EPA

What that means is that the bands have to sit and watch each other - so we got to see Foo Fighters playing along to Van Morrison's Gloria, and KT Tunstall grooving with French singer Camille.
Of course, nothing will beat the time, years ago, when we saw Thom Yorke busting moves to a Mary J Blige performance - but the joy of seeing Later up close, is watching musicians when they're not "on".
Some of those moments could well make it into Saturday night's show - so keep an eye out for Dave Grohl lending his guitar to KT Tunstall.
The Scottish singer is a good foot shorter than the Foos' frontman, so she ends up playing with the instrument slung around her knees.
Later... could only exist on the BBC

Just before the show, Jools and his producer Mark Cooper said that Later... couldn't exist on any other broadcaster,

"This show really is part of the BBC ethos," said Jools.
"It educates, informs, entertains and speaks truth unto nation.
"There's no show like it on earth.
A lot of the guests say that when they come on [and] only the BBC could make it."
Cooper said the BBC's biggest gift had been to stay out of their way.
"I would like to thank the BBC for supporting this programme over 25 years and doing the most wonderful thing the BBC can do for anybody, which is give us the freedom to make a show that can be brave, and make its own choices.
Hopefully that's what it kept going."
Later 25 will be shown on BBC Two at 21:00 BST on Saturday, 23 September.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Liam Gallagher says his Twitter was hacked and he never accused his brother of faking tears at Manchester Arena.
Earlier this month Noel appeared to break down while performing at the venue's reopening, four months after a bomb attack there killed 22 people.
Shortly afterwards, a tweet from Liam's account branded the show of emotion a "PR stunt".
But now the former Oasis singer denies being behind it and says the police are investigating.
Both brothers have played gigs in memory of those murdered at the Ariana Grande concert in Manchester in May.
Liam was a surprise guest at One Love Manchester, held at Old Trafford Cricket Ground less than two weeks after the attack.
He performed an a capella version of Live Forever.
Noel wasn't there - a decision Liam was quick to criticise on Twitter.
But Noel was among the acts booked to play at a benefit at Manchester Arena months later.
He played a nine song set and seemed to start crying during a rendition of Don't Look Back in Anger.
Again, Liam took to Twitter.
"[Noel] broke down in tears come on you seriously ain't buying that", he said, "don't buy into his PR stunt... if the same thing had have gone off in Edinburgh he'd [have] been up there like a shot".
But now he denies those tweets were from him.
"Oh, that wasn't me.
Someone hacked my Twitter account," he's told Newsweek.
"I wouldn't do that.
I wouldn't say stuff like that.
Can you believe that?
"Someone hacked into it and tweeted them for me.
I wouldn't do that stuff.
The police are looking into it now as we speak."
Noel hasn't commented on his brother's tweets - but did tell Radio X he "wasn't actually crying" during the gig.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Approximately 200 fans were turned away from the Foo Fighters' show

The O2 Arena's partnership with ticket resale company StubHub has been criticised after fans were turned away from a Foo Fighters concert this week.
Ahead of the concert, The O2 disabled links between its ticketing system and StubHub's, at the request of the band.
However, tickets continued to be offered on StubHub.
Some fans were then denied entry, as they could not supply ID matching the name on their tickets.
MP Sharon Hodgson said the relationship between the two companies was worrying.
"As one of our country's major entertainment venues, and officially the world's busiest venue, it is deeply concerning to see them [The O2] partner with a resale platform that gives preferential treatment to touts," said the Labour MP, who co-chairs the All Party Parliamentary Group on ticketing.
"In fact, they should be setting an example to others by creating their own ethical resale mechanisms so fans are not ripped off any longer."
Image copyright @paul_honey14 / Twitter Image caption Fans complained of long queues, due to security and ID checks

Chris York, director of SJM concerts and tour promoter for the Foo Fighters, echoed the comments.
"It's a moral decision [for the O2]," he said.
"They need to have a look at their business."
"In this instance, I think the relationship with their official reselling partner broke down.
"It's an uncomfortable relationship, in my opinion.
The venue is aware of that view, and they are certainly aware of that view from the Foo Fighters."
Responding to Ms Hodgson's comments, StubHub said: "Ticketing, like any industry can certainly improve, but this should not only be directed at safe resale platforms that provide customer guarantees.
"The entire ticketing market needs to focus on being transparent with fans and we call on the government to require event organisers to publish how many tickets are made available for public sale.
"The restrictions imposed this week [requiring ID] make it harder not just for people who want to resell spare tickets but also for people who want to give them away or buy them as a gift for friends and family."
The company has refunded fans who did not gain access to the show.
'Abhorrent'

While reselling tickets is legal, it often goes against the terms and conditions of events.
Fans can list tickets on websites such as StubHub and its main rivals Viagogo, GetMeIn and Seatwave at any price they see fit.
The prices are often much higher than face value - although government research shows about 30% of tickets sell for below the original asking price.
Image copyright Getty Images / BBC Image caption Tickets for Adele's 2016 tour were advertised on secondary tickets sites for up to 25,000 each

The O2 signed a partnership with Stubhub in 2012, giving the company billboards inside the venue, and integrating the O2's ticketing website AXS.com with Stubhub's reselling platform.
As a result, tickets for O2 events purchased through StubHub are validated and cancelled - after which a new ticket and barcode in the buyer's name is issued.
The measures help to combat fraud in the ticketing market.
However, the O2 can disable this integration for certain events and this happened in advance of the Foo Fighters' concert, after the band requested stringent terms of sale, including the requirement for ID.
SJM Concerts said the conditions were put in place "to prevent tickets being sold at extortionate prices".
Despite this, tickets continued to appear on Stubhub (as well as other secondary sites who are not officially linked to the O2).
The secondary sites were within their rights to do this, but at the risk of the O2 cancelling those tickets.
Furthermore, the BBC has seen an email StubHub sent to one customer, reassuring them "it's fine to see someone else's name on the tickets" - a direct contradiction of the terms of sale.
"I personally think that is abhorrent," said Mr York.
"They need to have a long, hard look at themselves and listen to the people who've been let down."
Image caption The band and The O2 said they were "extremely disappointed" that some fans missed the show

Approximately 200 people were turned away from the Foo Fighters' show - which was seen by 18,500 fans.
Ms Hodgson urged fans to educate themselves on the secondary ticketing market to avoid similar disappointments.
"Over the years, we have seen the ticketing market cleaned up and made fairer for fans, yet the example of the Foo Fighter concert this week shows how far we still have to go," she said.
"That is why it is important we maintain pressure to fix this broken market and put fans first but I would also encourage concert-goers to check out FanFair Alliance's guides to help them buy tickets and not face disappointment on the night."
The O2 Arena was contacted for a comment on this story, but said they had nothing to add to an earlier statement, which said the venue was "frustrated and saddened" by the appearance of tickets on the secondary market.
"We are extremely disappointed if you didn't get to see the show and urge anyone who encountered issues to contact their point of purchase for a full refund," the statement concluded.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sampha followed in the footsteps of Skepta and Benjamin Clementine to win the Mercury

Sampha's debut album Process has jumped back into the top 10 after winning the Mercury Music Prize.
It leapt to number seven in this week's chart - a climb of 145 places - after beating Ed Sheeran and Stormzy to win the 25,000 prize.
The new Foo Fighters album, Concrete and Gold, topped this week's chart.
It's the band's ninth studio album and the fourth to reach the top of the UK album chart.
Process had also been at number seven back in February.
Image copyright Official Charts Company Image caption Concrete and Gold is Foo Fighters' fourth number one album in the UK

Gary Numan also entered the top 10 for the first time in 35 years with his latest album Savage (Songs from a Broken World), according to the Official Charts Company.
Prophets of Rage, the rap and rock supergroup made up of members from Rage Against The Machine, Audioslave, Public Enemy and Cypress Hill landed at six.
There was little movement over on the singles chart, with Sam Smith retaining the top spot and Dua Lipa hanging on to second place.
Post Malone featuring 21 Savage were the highest new entry, with Rockstar debuting at number five.
Top five singles Artist Title 1) Sam Smith Too Good At Goodbyes 2) Dua Lipa New Rules 3) Pink What About Us?
4) Taylor Swift Look What You Made Me Do 5) Post Malone feat.
21 Savage Rockstar Top five albums Artist Title 1) Foo Fighters Concrete and Gold 2) Gary Numan Savage 3) Ed Sheeran Divide 4) The Script Freedom Child 5) Rag'n'Bone Man Human

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Greg James and A.Dot will be joined by a different guest host every week

Greg James and A.Dot have been announced as the hosts of a new, primetime music show on BBC One.
Sounds Like Friday Night will be the first regular, mainstream music programme on the BBC since Top of the Pops was cancelled in 2006.
Broadcast live from Television Centre, it promises to feature "the hottest bands and artists in the world", alongside interviews and sketches.
Brit Award-winners Royal Blood have written the show's theme tune.
"We always imagined doing something like this one day," said the band.
"It's great that a new show celebrating live music is back at the BBC and creating a home for new bands to build a bigger audience.
We're excited to be a part of it."
The show will launch in October.
Image caption Stormzy is among the stars who could perform on the show

James, who got his break in student radio, has hosted Radio 1's drivetime show since 2012, and reveals the Official Charts every Friday.
A.Dot is the stage name of Ashley Charles, a rapper who has performed with Busta Rhymes and Missy Elliot.
Also known as Amplify Dot or Dotty, she currently presents the 1Xtra Breakfast show, where she has become known for her Prank Calls feature.
'Home for new acts'

The two hosts will be joined by a different guest star every week, who will take part in sketches, as well as performing live.
The format seems similar to Adele at the BBC - which featured a viral sketch in which Adele auditioned to play her own lookalike.
"We have been missing a primetime music show from our TV screens for far too long so it's fair to say being part of Sounds Like Friday Night is something I'm really, really excited about," said James in a statement.
"One thing that's fantastic about the show is being able to provide new and emerging acts a home alongside the megastars, introducing them to a new audience."
Image caption Top of the Pops ran for 42 years before being cancelled due to poor ratings

The new show is being produced by Fulwell 73, the company behind James Corden's US chat show and Carpool Karaoke sketches.
It has been in development since 2014, as the corporation searched for a music show format that worked.
"Pop music has no divine right to be on BBC One," BBC Music boss Bob Shennan told Music Week earlier this year.
"The reality is that, if you stick a succession of performances on one after the other, and there's nothing special about it, it's not necessarily going to attract the audience."
"We want to open [artists] up so you see them for who they are and have fun with them," said Gabe Turner of Fulwell 73.
"With the sketches, it's not just presenting a song, but experiencing their world."
"I'm thrilled to be part of Sounds Like Friday Night," added A.Dot.
"Each week I'll be meeting fellow music fans from around the UK, getting the lowdown from the viewers on social media and bringing the best music to you at home.
I can't wait!"
Image copyright Reuters Image caption A record 20.9 million people watched the BBC's coverage of Glastonbury this year

Sounds Like Friday Night has been given an initial run of six episodes - neatly echoing Top of the Pops, which was commissioned for half a dozen episodes in 1964.
That programme ended up running for 42 years, registering its highest audience in 1979, when more than 19 million people tuned in to see Dr Hook's When You're in Love with a Beautiful Woman topping the chart.
But by 2002, it had lost millions of viewers to 24-hour music channels like MTV.
The show was eventually shunted to BBC Two before being cancelled.
Music has continued to play a key role on BBC Four, with archive espiodes of TOTP appearing alongside music documentaries and the new Live Lounge show, which compiles the best live acts on BBC Radio 1.
On BBC Two, Later... With Jools Holland is celebrating its 25th anniversary, while coverage of Glastonbury, T in the Park and the Reading and Leeds festivals are televised throughout the summer.
The music industry has received the new show enthusiastically.
"The BBC is a fantastic supporter of British music across its radio output, and we have been encouraging senior BBC executives over the last few years to step up and do more to showcase Britain's amazing music culture to the nation on television too," said Geoff Taylor, head of the BPI, which represents the UK's recorded music industry.
"We are thrilled at this new opportunity for some of this country's unique talent to reach a mainstream TV audience.
We wish the series every success in the hope that it will become a long-term fixture on our screens.
With Greg James at the helm it should have every chance of doing well."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Laura Mvula - Phenomenal Woman

Laura Mvula debuts her new track Phenomenal Woman on Later... with Jools Holland as the show returns to BBC Two for its 48th series.
Strictly stars glam up for launch show

The line-up for this year's Strictly Come Dancing has been revealed - and last night they were seen for the first time together at a glitzy Red Carpet event in London.
Video

Watch Northern Ireland poet Sinad Morrissey, new winner of The Forward Prize, reciting her poem The Millihelen on BBC NI's The Arts Show.
The Forward Prize is one of the most prestigious prizes in poetry, with previous winners including Ted Hughes, Carol Ann Duffy and Seamus Heaney.
Video

The Royal Shakespeare Company is selling off more than 10,000 items of clothing worn by actors over the decades.
Hollywood star and RSC veteran Sir Patrick Stewart gave BBC News a tour of the costume sale and shared some of his memories.
The sale is taking place on Saturday 23rd September.
Video journalist: Sophie van Brugen.
Additional production: Tom Beal, Verity Wilde.
What does an Ibiza DJ see on stage?
As Radio 1 broadcasts from Ibiza, see what it's like for one of the world's top DJs to play live.
Rihannas rejects

Rihanna recorded hundreds of songs while making her new album.
Mark Savage looks at what happens to the rejects.
Image copyright Aston's Auctioneers & Valuers Image caption A Sir Roger Moore chair fetched 2,300 after having an estimate of 500 to 700

A harpoon gun, clapper board and Sir Roger Moore's director's chair are among hundreds of James Bond items to have sold for 112,000 in total.
The on-screen props and chair were among the 500-piece collection from an anonymous seller from Somerset.
The man was "downsizing" and could not keep it, Aston's Auctioneers said.
A Walther handgun prop used in the 2006 Casino Royale film with a clapper board fetched 4,300, more than three times the estimate of up to 1,200.
The Sir Roger chair - thought to have been used in the star's office at Pinewood Studios - featured signatures from various colleagues including Goldfinger's Honor Blackman, The Man With The Golden Gun's Britt Ekland and Maud Adams, who also appeared in that film and played Octopussy nine years later.
It sold for 2,300 at the auction in Dudley, after having an estimate of up to 700.
A harpoon gun from Timothy Dalton's Licence to Kill in 1989 had an estimate of up to 800, but went for double that at 1,800.
Image copyright Aston's Auctioneers & Valuers Image caption A Walther handgun prop used in Casino Royale, a clapper board from the Daniel Craig film and a certificate of authenticity fetched 4,300

Image copyright Aston's Auctioneers & Valuers Image caption An Aston Martin DB5 toy went for 240

The auctioneers said it was "the biggest, best result" it had had from a single seller's collection in the company's 12 years of operating.
Owner Chris Aston said: "[The seller] can't keep the collection any more.
"He's stopped adding to the collection for a few years and the appeal is the actual act of the collecting in the first place, rather than just outright ownership [of it]."
Mr Aston also said the items were "a fair spread" of different Bond film eras.
Image copyright Laura Allard Fleischl Image caption Wolf Alice (L-R): Theo Ellis, Joff Odie, Ellie Rowsell, Joel Amey

"It's crazy, Los Angeles," says Wolf Alice's bassist, Theo Ellis.
"It's like a fictitious city."
"You can go skiing and then come back down to the ocean," adds singer Ellie Rowsell, "or go to the desert and then into town."
The band spent the start of 2017 in the city, recording Visions of a Life - their follow-up to the Mercury-nominated debut My Love Is Cool.
Like that record, it tears up the indie-rock rule book, merrily flitting between wild-eyed punk (Yuk Foo), dreamy pop (Beautifully Unconventional) and chiming indie melodies (Planet Hunter).
"We're easily influenced," laughs Rowsell.
"But I think the thing we've learned the most is that you have to trust your gut."
The band landed in LA on the day of Donald Trump's inauguration, noting that "everyone seemed really angry".
But the political situation didn't really feed into the record, most of which was written in advance.
Instead, the lyrics are deeply personal, talking about departed friends, blossoming love affairs and, on Sky Musings, a panic attack Rowsell suffered at 40,000 feet while flying between stops on tour.
The band tell the BBC why they "couldn't hold back" their feelings; why Craig David should be prime minister; and how hummus is the "good analogy" for their ambitious and impressive second album.
Image caption The band took a prime slot on Glastonbury's Pyramid Stage in 2016

The first single, Yuk Foo, is such a loud and angry song, but you wrote it in a dressing room.
How did you demo the vocals?
Ellie: I've mastered this by having, unfortunately, lived with my parents my whole life.
When you're supposed to be being quiet, but you want to write a song where you're shouting, I have my technique.
It sounds a little bit like this.
[Makes a sound uncannily like a chipmunk].
I promise it actually sounds like shouting if you layer it up and put enough effects on it!
Theo: That might be the reason for our unique sound, is you trying to record angry songs very quietly.
Was Yuk Foo targeted at anything in particular?
Had someone left the M&Ms off your rider?
Ellie: Yes, someone decided to put sun-dried tomatoes in my hummus.
Theo: Scum!
It's funny you bring up hummus The first time I interviewed you, in 2014, you told me it was the only item on your rider.
Ellie: Haha!
We're very low maintenance.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The band's tour rider is hand-delivered by artisanal chefs by midday, or the gig is cancelled (NB: Not true)

What's your favourite variety: Red Pepper, Moroccan, traditional?
Ellie: I like anything with garlic in it.
But yeah, probably just traditional.
Theo: To be fair though, maybe we should get different varieties...

Marks and Spencer does a selection pack.
Theo: Too posh!
Too bougie!
Ellie: I think hummus is quite a good analogy for our album.
You get all these different varieties but at the end of the day they're all hummus.
Yuk Foo is a spicy hummus, Don't Delete The Kisses is beetroot.
That's one of the things that impresses me about the album - You have a different sound, and even vocal style, from one track to the next.
Is that something you considered in the writing process?
Ellie: Not really the songwriting, but maybe the recording.
We're all quite easily influenced.
I'll watch one band and be like, "I want to be in that band" and then I'll watch another completely different band and be like, "actually, no, I want to be in that band".
But why do I have to be in one or the other?
I can go and write like a stoner rock dude, and then write a sugary folk song - and adopt the role of each singer without doing anything that feels unnatural to me.
What band do you want to be in today?
Theo: I want to be in Outkast, but played by the members of Drenge.
OutDrenge.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Wolf Alice perform Beautifully Unconventional, Bros and a cover of Green Day's Good Riddance (Time Of Your Life) for BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge

It feels like the lyrics on this album are more revealing than the first record...

Ellie: I held back less on this record.
It's something you grow into with confidence.
If you were to write a diary and you held things back, when you went back to look at it when you were older, you'd be annoyed because you want to know how you truly felt.
So I didn't want to do that.
Musically, as well, we didn't do that.
People often say guitar solos are embarrassing, but if they're working it's not embarrassing.
Just do it.
Speaking of which - did I hear a saxophone solo on Heavenward?
Ellie: No!
That's Joff's guitar.
Theo: I really like it.
It's a very specific guitar pedal that he bought.
Ellie: It's called a Miku.
Theo: The nature of the pedal is quite bizarre.
It's supposed to emulate the singing voice of multiple Asian women.
It's really, really weird.
He just bought it on a whim, because he's always exploring how to make his guitar sound different.
My mum thought it was bagpipes when I played it to her.
St Purple and Green is a really personal lyric.
It's about your grandmother, right?
Ellie: Yes.
My grandma, she was always a big talker but her mind slowly began to deteriorate.
I remember I went to her house one day and she was saying: "I want to go there, purple and green."
I was like, "What is she going on about?"
but I also liked the way she was talking.
One of the most inspiring things about her was she was always quite excited by the prospect of death.
She always said, "Why would you be scared of it?
It's the next big adventure."
I guess Purple and Green is about that - don't be scared, you get to go to this new place.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The group formed as a folk duo in 2012, but spent several years touring to refine their sound

And the song Sky Musings sounds like a panic attack in three minutes.
What inspired those lyrics?
Ellie: I've had quite a few moments on long haul flights where I've had a couple of drinks and watched some rom-com and felt like I had a thousand million thoughts swimming around my head.
Apparently it's a thing that happens on flights: Because its one of the only opportunities you get to do nothing, you start to have lots of thoughts which you'd normally push aside.
And also, your life is in the hands of someone else, so people get very emotional.
So Sky Musings is kind of the journey of that panic attack, which I had on lots of different flights, but rolled into one for the sake of a song.
You've recently done some work with the Labour party.
What's your view on Corbyn-mania?
Theo: He's been adopted by a generation even younger than us, I reckon.
He's the meme lord!
The older media were a little reluctant to endorse him.
Ellie: And it didn't stop him or it did for a bit

Theo: Yeah, it stifled him but social media and a lot of youth-leaning outlets championed him.
It's really interesting to see that - especially with Brexit being voted for, largely, by the older generation.
But then, he's pro-Brexit.
Theo: Yeah, I don't necessarily agree with him on Brexit.
Ellie: But I think lots of people were for Brexit, when it wasn't really laid out to us what Brexit would mean.
Theo: Politics is for everyone, and I don't feel everyone was given the right information on what was going on.
People were ringing up the next day and saying, "Can I change my vote?"
Will Brexit affect you as a band?
Theo: It does directly affect touring in Europe.
We have to get all the right pieces of information and documentation.
Ellie: So many bands can't get to America because of Visa issues.
If we're going to have to start needing Visas around Europe, it's the end of low-level touring.
Image copyright Laura Allard Fleischl Image caption Visions of a Life is set to be one of the year's biggest rock records

You built your career on touring.
Why don't more bands do that?
Ellie: It's expensive to tour.
You have to remember that.
We did it on a shoestring but we were lucky that we had a mate that would drive us, and we had jobs that would let us go.
You're a big, formidable presence on stage now, was that true at the beginning?
Theo: No.
We had no idea who we were at all!
Ellie: I was probably more confident, in a way, because I thought no-one was paying attention.
One thing I've noticed is that your influences are much broader than most guitar bands.
Wasn't Craig David's Born To Do It the first record Theo bought?
Theo: How the heck did you know that?!
But, yeah, he's such a good performer.
He's the Judi Dench of garage now.
He's like a British icon.
A hero.
He went away for 10 years, moved to Miami, got massive, came back and started shelling it down at every festival on earth.
He is also exceptionally polite in real life.
Theo: I know!
Craig David for next Labour leader.
Ellie [singing]: Oh, Cra-i-ig David.
What was your first record, Ellie?
Ellie: I think mine was Missundaztood by Pink.
That was Dua Lipa's first record, too.
Ellie: Really?
That's funny.
I think Pink's like a rock star making pop music.
Theo: Everyone likes Pink.
And Dua Lipa leans her chair back very far on flights.
It feels like there's a story there...

Theo [in a strained voice]: "I need some wine, Dua Lipa is crushing me."
Listen, Dua Lipa has no idea who I am.
But shout out to her, I really like her.
She's totally wicked.
She's just really bad at flying.
Wolf Alice's second album, Visions of a Life, is out on 29 September.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
More than 50 years after her iconic turn as Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's, Audrey Hepburn's style is attracting the attention of a new generation of fashion lovers.
A collection of the actress's little black dresses, trench coats and a sleeping mask are among thousands of personal items on display at Christie's in central London.
Almost 500 lots are to be sold in the coming weeks, but it was not only potential buyers browsing the auction house as the exhibition opened on Saturday.
A younger generation - many born after Hepburn's death nearly 25 years ago - are turning out to see the clothes worn by the 20th Century muse.
Adrian Hume-Sayer, director of private collections at Christie's, said a huge part of Hepburn's fanbase was born after she died.
But what is it about her style that appeals to the millennial fashionista?
"Everyone says how wearable the clothes are today - that cleanness of line, the simplicity, that she really made her own," Mr Hume-Sayer said.
Image caption Margreet and Henry were some of the younger admirers at the collection

For 23-year-old Margreet Mateboer, who travelled from the Netherlands to see the collection, there is something "relatable" about Hepburn.
Margreet, whose first experience of Hepburn was when she watched Breakfast at Tiffany's aged 12, said: "She was very humble and human.
"She was glamorous, but not in a diva kind of way."
And if she could take home one item from the sale?
"The brown shearling sheepskin jacket she wore in Wait until Dark...
I'd wear that."
Accompanying Margreet was Henry Wilkinson, an aspiring costume designer in London, whose first introduction to Audrey Hepburn was seeing the 1964 comedy My Fair Lady.
"That was 10 years ago, but it still resonates with me," the 20-year-old said.
Henry said Hepburn had been modern for her time, adding that she avoided wearing heels and would often look quite "boyish and wear trousers".
Indeed, many of Hepburn's clothes on display would not look out of place on nearby Oxford Street.
A black mini dress adorned with feathers appears alongside a fur-trimmed wool coat and sequin-adorned jacket.
"She worked with what she had," Henry said.
"And this stuff is relatively attainable."
Image copyright Reuters

Image copyright Getty Images

It is true that while there are designer pieces from Givency and Valentino, there are also simple cotton dresses and ballet pumps.
The majority of accessories - which include a diamante-encrusted serpent belt - are costume jewellery and not of the quality you might expect of a Hollywood actress.
"She owned very little real jewellery," said Mr Hume-Sayer.
"She was not interested in it.
That lack of ostentation (showed) her humbleness.
She was incredibly grounded."
Items on sale include annotated scripts, posed portraits and a personalised Cartier swizzle stick - or cocktail stirrer - with a reserve price of 2,000-3,000.
It is hoped some of the items will find their way into the hands of younger fans.
"(Her sons) were keen for us to make as many small lots as possible, to make it as accessible as we can," said Mr Hume-Sayer.
Happy bidding.
The collection is open to the public in King Street, London, free of charge, until Tuesday 26 September.
Image copyright Warner Bros/Getty Images Image caption Spot the difference: Vikander on the Tomb Raider poster and in the flesh

A poster and action-packed trailer for the new Tomb Raider film have been released - but all everyone's talking about is Alicia Vikander's neck.
The Oscar-winning actress appears to be the victim of some distinctly dodgy Photoshop in the poster for the film.
"Is it just me or is there something off about the proportions on that Tomb Raider poster?"
tweeted Lex Croucher.
"The more I look at the Tomb Raider movie poster the less sense that neck makes to me," wrote Twitter user Nibel.
Other mocking tweets have likened the Ex Machina star with a Jurassic Park velociraptor and other film characters with extended necks.
Directed by Norway's Roar Uthaug, the latest screen outing for Lara Croft reaches cinemas in March 2018.
Angelina Jolie previously played the computer game heroine in two films released in 2001 and 2003 respectively.
The latest Lara Croft film is an origins story that shares plot elements with a Tomb Raider game released in 2013.
A scene in the trailer in which Lara leaps off a storm-tossed ship mirrors a similar scene from a trailer for the game released in 2011.
Image copyright Paramount Image caption Angelina Jolie has played Lara Croft in two Tomb Raider films

Other scenes show Vikander with a bow and arrow, leaping over rapids and using a knife to fend off an assailant.
British actors Dominic West, Nick Frost and Kristin Scott Thomas are also glimpsed in the two-minute promo.
The Tomb Raider poster is reminiscent of other notorious poster "fails" such as the one for the 1983 James Bond film Octopussy, in which the late Roger Moore - and his leading lady Maud Adams - were given unfeasibly long legs.
Image copyright Danjaq/EON/UA/Touchstone/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock

Julia Roberts' head was infamously superimposed on the frame of a body double on the poster for 1990's Pretty Woman.
The makers of The Heat, meanwhile, caught some themselves for giving Melissa McCarthy a slimmer-looking face on the 2013 comedy's UK poster.
Image copyright Twentieth Century Fox Film/Kobal/REX/Shutterstock

Vikander won an Oscar for her role in 2015's The Danish Girl and was seen last year opposite Matt Damon in his fourth Jason Bourne film.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Noma Dumezweni attended The Stage Debut Awards on Sunday

Harry Potter and the Cursed Child is gearing up to transfer to Broadway after a hugely successful run in London's West End.
Noma Dumezweni, who played Hermione in the original London production, is among the original cast members set to reprise her role across the Atlantic from March.
The actress attended The Stage Debut Awards on Sunday and told BBC News that one of the aspects of Cursed Child she's most proud of is bringing theatre to a new audience.
"What I understood for London was that 60 or 65% of the audience were first-time theatregoers, because of those [Harry Potter] books," she said.
"And you go, OK, you've read the books, seen the films, and now I love that it's in script form - all those people with scripts of the Cursed Child will now go and play those parts in their garden.
"It's now there to create your version.
So the through line is huge."
Image copyright Charlie Gray Image caption Noma starred alongside Paul Thornley and Cherrelle Skeete in Cursed Child

Noma added that her 10-year-old daughter's enthusiasm for Harry Potter reassured her of the franchise's enduring popularity.
"To go to the theatre, with that percentage of people being first-time theatregoers, that's phenomenal, it's quite special and I'm part of it."
The actress said she has "no idea" whether changes will be made to the show ahead of its Broadway transfer, but added: "I'm so excited for it."
Along with several members of the principal cast, Noma has now left the London production before she reprises her role in the US from March 2018.
"I went to see the new [London] cast, with Rakie Ayola playing Hermione, and I loved it," the actress said.
Image caption Noma was one of the celebrity narrators on BBC Radio 2's 500 Words project

"I went, 'Oh my God they're doing their own thing', and within that there were little changes, and I thought, yes, that makes sense.
"And I said to Rakie, 'I'm totally stealing some of your stuff, because I really enjoy what you do'.
But that's the highest compliment I can give her, as an actress to another actress, I love what she did."
Noma added that she may well make some changes of her own when she returns to the role next year.
"Hopefully there'll be room for us to expand.
The first time I was at the Royal Shakespeare Company was to do The Winter's Tale, and I came back to it nine months later.
"And because of the world you've lived in for those nine months, it adds another texture, another way of thinking to what you've already got.
"I came back nine months later and felt, 'Woah, I've grown', so I'm looking forward to the growing of my Hermione when we do Broadway."
The actress was speaking to the BBC at the first ever Stage Debut Awards, which was also attended by her fellow cast member Anthony Boyle.
But she pointed out that such an event is "not just about young people".
"We're all doing our thing, we all started somewhere," she said.
"I did fringe theatre for so many years, and then I got my first play at the RSC, which was an amazing feeling, but I was 30 and had started acting in my early twenties.
Image copyright Charlie Gray Image caption Noma will reprise her role as Hermione on Broadway from March 2018

"I have been that actor who's watched peers and thought 'God, they're doing well, I'll never get there.
"For me, you could say my big West End debut was Cursed Child, but I'm in my 40s, and it's like, when is that beginning?
To acknowledge the beginnings of people is a beautiful thing."
She added: "I want the Stage Debut Awards to still be here in 20 years seeing how it goes.
"You've got so many people doing so many different things, and it's not just London-centric.
It's looking around the country and saying, 'We are seeing you', and I'm really excited that this has begun."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
The show had a fun feel, catering to the youthful end of the market - it was the first time Armani had staged a catwalk event in London for more than 10 years.
The 83-year-old designer said he had chosen London "for its "dynamism, energy and cosmopolitanism".
Image caption Samuel Thomas won best actor in a musical, while Christina Bennington accepted the prize for best West End debut on behalf of Bat Out of Hell co-star Andrew Polec

The first ever Stage Debut Awards took place on Sunday - recognising new talent in the British theatre industry.
Amber Riley and John Boyega were both nominated for one of the night's top prizes, but lost out to the lead actor in Bat Out of Hell.
Andrew Polec, the star of the Meat Loaf musical, took home the prize for best West End debut.
His co-star Christina Bennington, who accepted the prize, said he would be "thrilled and delighted" to have won.
It was the only award of the night to be voted for by the public.
"This category was absolutely ridiculous, and it just goes to show that Bat Out of Hell has the best fans in the world," Bennington told the BBC.
Other winners included Grace Moloney, who won best actress in a play for her performance in The Country Girls at the Minerva Theatre in Chichester.
She said: "As soon as I heard they were doing an awards ceremony for debut performances, I thought, this is what everyone needs at drama school, it's what you need to realise that young people are appreciated and being recognised, because the industry can feel like a brick wall that you're not going to break through."
Abraham Popoola won best actor in a play for Othello at Tobacco Factory Theatres in Bristol.
He said the fact that some of the top prizes of the night had gone to productions outside of London was "a sign that regional theatre is alive and well and doing great work".
Samuel Thomas, who won best actor in a musical for his performance in Allegro, described his reaction to winning simply as: "Shock".
He added: "The other lads nominated in my category were all worthy of this, but obviously I feel absolute pride, excitement and honour."
Skip Twitter post 2 by @BBCNewsEnts Dreamgirls star Adam J Bernard says fans often turn up crying at the stage door because of the emotional connection they feel with the show pic.twitter.com/DD8ShNOFN6  BBC News Ents Team (@BBCNewsEnts) September 17, 2017 Report

Speaking about Allegro, he said: "Most people would describe it as Rogers & Hammerstein's failure, I would actually describe it as one of their successes.
"It revolutionised the form of musical theatre and tilted the axis of what musical theatre is all about - that it doesn't have to be a big showy thing, it can be a very contained, integral, actor-driven and character-driven piece of theatre."
Miriam-Teak Lee, who won best actress in a musical for On The Town, said: "You don't think of awards as being given to new people, but this is such an amazing platform."
Here's a round-up of the other winners and photos from the red carpet:

Best actor in a play: Abraham Popoola for Othello at Tobacco Factory Theatres, Bristol

Best actress in a play: Grace Molony for The Country Girls at the Minerva Theatre, Chichester

Best actor in a musical: Samuel Thomas for Allegro at Southwark Playhouse, London

Best actress in a musical: Miriam-Teak Lee for On the Town at Regent's Park Open Air Theatre, London

Best director: Lekan Lawal for Betrayal at Derby Theatre, Derby

Best designer: Rosie Elnile for The Convert at the Gate Theatre, London

Skip Twitter post 4 by @BBCNewsEnts Sienna Kelly says performing in an open air theatre had its problems - the heatwave over the summer meant several people passed out  pic.twitter.com/K2n0yNC3kl  BBC News Ents Team (@BBCNewsEnts) September 17, 2017 Report

Best composer: Dan Gillespie Sells for Everybody's Talking About Jamie at the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield

Best writer: Katherine Soper for Wish List at the Royal Exchange, Manchester

The best West End debut: Andrew Polec for Bat Out of Hell at the London Coliseum

Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
The ongoing political protests surrounding some players' decision to take a knee during the national anthem didn't help the NFL's "Sunday Night Football" ratings.
Viewership for the primetime game between the Washington Redskins and the Oakland Raiders was down 11 percent from the same night one year ago and 9 percent from the previous week, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
The media outlet reports the game averaged an 11.6 household rating.
The less-than-stellar ratings came after President Trump slammed the NFL during a rally in Alabama on Friday, saying players who protest the national anthem should be fired.
Also not working in the NFL's favor was a 20-minute delay because of NFL overruns, CBS' 50th anniversary season premiere of "60 Minutes" with Oprah Winfrey and the only broadcast of the new "Star Trek Discovery."
These were top markets for "Sunday Night Football," according to Deadline:

1.
D.C.- 23.3/40

2.
Richmond  22.1/33

3.
Norfolk  19.8/31

4.
Sacramento  17.5/32

5.
S.F./Oakland  17.2/35

6.
New Orleans  17.2/24

7.
Denver  16.2/27

8.
Buffalo- 15.4/24

9.
Kansas City  14.8/24

10.
Las Vegas  14.5/23
Jessie James Decker is standing up for the national anthem.
The singer wrote a lengthy message on Instagram supporting the national anthem and what it represents for the United States on Monday.
Decker, who is married to Tennessee Titans player Eric Decker, posted a video of her singing The Star-Spangled Banner at a football game, saying it was one of her favorite songs to perform.
I think about my dad, my uncles, my cousins, both grandfathers who fought in the Vietnam war.
I think about how my grandfather paw paw Tim would ask me to sing this song for him every time I saw him and how he would make me turn the other way to sing it so he could just weep and cry as hard as he wanted because it meant so much to him, the singer wrote along with the clip.
Decker goes on to say she thinks of the troops deployed worldwide, including in the Middle East, while she belts out the anthem and that shes paying respects to those sacrificing their lives.
I think about all of the men crying because they missed their wives so much, or the man telling me he hadn't seen his baby girl yet since she was born, she added.
When I sing this song I think about them.
This song is about them.
It's not about me.
That's what I think about every time I sing it, she said.
I love our country so much.
And we should all love and respect each other because this is the greatest country in the world.
I see the love.
I see the unity in all walks of life on a daily basis and It makes me so proud to be an American..... so In the words of Forrest Gump.
That's all I have to say about that, she said.
A post shared by Jessie James Decker (@jessiejamesdecker) on Sep 25, 2017 at 6:23am PDT

CELEBRITIES REACT TO TRUMP, NFL 'TAKE A KNEE' NATIONAL ANTHEM CONTROVERSY

Many fans applauded Deckers firm stance with the national anthem, a controversial topic that was the center of NFL Sunday after President Trump blasted the leagues athletes who took a knee during the song.
You're amazing!!!!
The flag is not about who the president is it is about our country and the soldiers who fight for it everyday.
Thank you for this!!!!!
Instagram user Theresa_feehan commented.
Very much appreciated and beautifully written, thank you for speaking up and educating!
user srinajp_ said.
Hayley_jorstad commented: Beautifully said!
I don't know why the NFL thinks that not coming out for the National Anthem is showing unity!
Im SO glad to see this post because I told anyone talking smack that @edeck87 definitely wouldnt support this as his wifes family is military AND she sings the National Anthem.
People can do as they wish its just sad to see it happening..., user casey.reinhardt said.
Several people also criticized the singers stance on the protest and threatened to unfollow her on Instagram for the post.
More than 200 NFL players protested during the national anthem by sitting, kneeling and locking arms after Trump called for all players who took a knee during the song to be fired.
New York Jets, a team owned by a Trump appointee, joined in on the protest by locking arms during the anthem at MetLife Stadium, ESPN reported.
Eddie Montgomery is speaking out for the first time since his duo partner Troy Gentry died in a helicopter crash Sept. 8.
The country singer thanked his fans for their support in a letter sent to radio programmers obtained by Taste of Country.
"Our world was turned upside down in an instant, and nothing could have prepared us for this," Montgomery said.
The country singers made up the country duo Montgomery Gentry and had plans to release a new album before Gentry was tragically killed in a helicopter crash.
He was 50.
"Over the past few months me and T-Roy have been working on what I think is the best record of our career," Montgomery said.
"In the last few weeks we had been talking about what our first single would be.
Then on September 8, none of that mattered."
Their new song "Better Me" was played at a public celebration of Gentry's life on Sept. 14.
"'Better Me' is a song we all loved and Troy sings his ass off on it," Montgomery said.
"It speaks volumes about his life and who he had become and everybody he touched and how much he loved his family.
I am so proud of this song and also to call him my friend, my family, my brother for 30 years."
The former "American Idol" winner gave a rocking performance at the Billboard Awards Sunday, but the talk of the night was her newly slimmed figure, a drastic change from her previous look (left).
The singer has made a point to say she doesn't care about her weight.
But if those are the results of not caring, sign us up!
Celebrities took a swipe at President Trump and spoke out in support of NFL players protesting the national anthem, using social media and their own stage to take the knee.
Trumps words against the athletes drew sharp criticism when he told a crowd at an Alabama rally on Friday that players who didnt stand up during the national anthem should be fired.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'get that son of a bitch off the field right now?
He's fired!
He's fired,'" Trump said.
The rebukes came shortly after, with celebrities posting on social media using the hashtags #takeaknee or #taketheknee to show their support for the NFL athletes.
At the Global Citizen Festival on Saturday in New York, music legend Stevie Wonder kneeled with his son, Kwame Morris, on the stage.
Tonight, Im taking a knee for America, Wonder told the crowd of people.
Im taking both knees.
Both knees in prayer for our planet, our future, our leaders of the world and our globe.
Pharrell Williams also took a knee at his concert in Charlottesville Sunday night, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
"If I want to get on my knees right now for the people of my city, for the people of my state, that's what this flag is for," Williams said to concertgoers as he kneeled.
Williams never explicitly mention Trumps name.
Meanwhile, rapper Diddy posted video on Instagram showing some support to all the players in the NFL.
If you all do whatever you do in unity, you cant be stopped.
Just do the math, man, Diddy said.
Do the math, stick together, stand up for each other, ride with each other because believe me, were all we got and it has nothing to do with football or business.
Yall are our stars, yall represent us, yall are our strong heroes.
So show that strength, please.
A Very IMPORTANT MESSAGE TO ALL THE PLAYERS IN THE NFL!!!!!!!
Said with LOVE RESPECT AND HOPE!
Repost pls!
A post shared by Diddy (@diddy) on Sep 23, 2017 at 10:38am PDT

Orange is the New Black actress Uzo Aduba posted a photo of herself kneeling with the caption: Its that easy #takeaknee.
John Legend kneeled at his concert on Sunday.
#TakeaKnee #DarknessAndLightTour #GLORY A post shared by John Legend (@johnlegend) on Sep 24, 2017 at 2:26pm PDT

"Speak the truth even if your voice shakes."
Make no mistake about it we stand with Kaepernick.
#TakeAKnee Linda Sarsour said.
NASCAR owners, however, are standing with Trump on the controversy, saying they wouldnt want anyone on their teams to disrespect the national anthem.
Itll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus.
Richard Childress said, adding that anybody that works for me should respect the country we live in.
So many people gave their lives for it.
This is America.
Hall of Fame driver Richard Petty told The Associated Press: Anybody that dont stand up for the anthem oughta be out of the country.
Period.
What got em where theyre at?
The United States."
More than 200 NFL players protested during the 14 games played on Sunday nationwide.
Football Sunday kicked off in London with dozens of players on the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars taking a knee  the first game since Trump called out the athletes for disrespecting the nation and American flag during the protests.
On Monday morning, Trump reiterated that his criticism of the anthem protest has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!
Trump tweeted early Monday morning.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
FOX411's snap of the day

http://www.foxnews.com/">Fox News

http://www.foxnews.com/

Miley Cyrus Miley Cyrus knows how to make a statement.
The singer opted for completely sheer leggings with bright red underwear when she walked the red carpet at the 2017 iHeartRadio Music Festival at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada.
(Getty) miley-cyrus

Hailey Baldwin and Alessandra Ambrosio Hailey Baldwin (left) and Alessandra Ambrosio strutted their stuff in a Julien Macdonald fashion show in London.
The models donned nearly-nude looks for the Welsh fashion designer's show.
Click here for more pics from the runway on X17online.com.
(X17) hailey-baldwin-and-alessandra-ambrosio

Emily Ratajkowski's flaunts her amazing flat abs Emily Ratajkowski proudly flaunted her flat abs while promoting her new collection for The Kooples.
For more photos of the model and "Blurred Lines" star, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) emily-ratajkowski's-flaunts-her-amazing-flat-abs

Kourtney gets cheeky Kourtney Kardashian stunned photographers when she was spotted wearing ripped blue jeans that flaunted her famous assets.
For more photos of the 38-year-old reality TV star, visit x17online.com (x17) kourtney-gets-cheeky

Joanna Krupa's wild new look "Real Housewives of Miami" star and model Joanna Krupa was bodypainted as a tiger to protest the use of animals in London circuses.
The star's provocative look was on behalf of animal rights group PETA.
(Splash) joanna-krupa's-wild-new-look

What's wrong, James Franco?
Actor James Franco was spotted at the Grey Goose Suite while attending the 2017 US Open.
And apparently, his favorite player lost.
(Ilya Savenok) what's-wrong,-james-franco?
Kim channels her inner Targaryen Just call her Kim Targaryen.
Kardashian channeled her inner Dragon Queen from "Game of Thrones" when she walked the red carpet with long, silver locks.
(AP) kim-channels-her-inner-targaryen

Jennifer Lawrence Jennifer Lawrence chose a risque look at the Venice Film Festival.
The actress donned a gown with a completely sheer top with two cleverly-placed flowers over her breasts.
(AP) jennifer-lawrence

Charlotte looks like heaven in denim Charlotte McKinney looks like heaven in denim.
The model chose a sleeveless blue top, blue boyfriend jeans and matching heels for dinner with friends at Soho House in Malibu.
Click here for more pics of McKinney on X17online.com (X17) charlotte-looks-like-heaven-in-denim

Kendall Jenner slithers in lingerie Kendall Jenner slithered in lacy lingerie for a new fashion campaign from Italian brand La Perla.
The 21-year-old model and "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star is featured in the autumn/winter 2017 collection.
(Splash) kendall-jenner-slithers-in-lingerie

Amy Schumer goes topless Amy Schumer went topless on Instagram Wednesday while playfully holding her dog.The poodle was wearing a hot dog costume.
For more photos of the 36-year-old comedienne, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) amy-schumer-goes-topless

Halle Berry, is that you?
Halle Berry looked unrecognizable at a party for InStyle Magazine in Beverly Hills.
The 51-year-old Oscar-winning actress was spotted rocking a natural hairdo while carrying a small bottle of Don Julio blanco tequila with a straw in it.
For more photos of Berry, visit x17online.com (x17) halle-berry,-is-that-you?
Melissa Joan Hart and Soleil Moon Frye Former "Sabrina" co-stars are best friends not just on-screen.
Melissa Joan Hart (left) and Soleil Moon Frye (right) have been close friends since they starred on "Sabrina" together.
"We had so much fun those years and then years later, here we are again as mommies and on a weight loss journey together," Hart said as part of the stars' partnership with Nutrisystem.
Frye is also known for her role on "Punky Brewster."
(Nutrisystem) melissa-joan-hart-and-soleil-moon-frye

Chelsea Handler's Chelsea Handler showed off her new shirt that reads, "Sorry about our president."
The comedian wrote on Instagram, "The shirt I wear now when I travel."
Tell us how you really fell, Chelsea.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) chelsea-handler's-

Gemma Collins What is Gemma Collins wearing?
The British reality star donned a strange orange dress with large shoulder pads as she left the ITV Summer Party.
PHOTOS: Worst celebrity wardrobe malfunctions (Splash) gemma-collins

Ben Affleck and Lindsay Shookus PHOTOS: Jennifer Garner spends time with Ben Affleck's mom.
Ben Affleck and his new girlfriend Lindsay Shookus were caught off guard by paparazzi after enjoying a dinner at Pizzeria Mozza in Los Angeles.
The 44-year-old and Shookus, 37, recently returned from a vacation in Maine.
(Backgrid) ben-affleck-and-lindsay-shookus

Macaulay Culkin looks different Actor Macaulay Culkin cleaned up nicely after years of rocking a disheveled look.
(Splash News) macaulay-culkin-looks-different

Julianne Hough's birthday suit Julianne Hough proudly displayed her birthday suit on Instagram while enjoying her honeymoon with husband, ice hockey player Brooks Laich.
For more photos of the 29-year-old, visit HollywoodLife.com (instagram.com/juleshough) julianne-hough's-birthday-suit

Tara Reid wigs out Tara Reid hit the red carpet in what appears to be a bright blonde wig with bangs.
The 41-year-old donned an ill-fitting black ensemble at the Los Angeles premiere of "Valerian And The City Of A Thousand Planets" in Hollywood.
(Splash) tara-reid-wigs-out

Bella Thorne takes the plunge Bella Thorne was spotted in Los Angeles wearing a risque chained bodysuit paired with Daisy Dukes.
To see more photos of the 19-year-old, visit X17online.com (X17) bella-thorne-takes-the-plunge

Jessica Simpson celebrates Jessica Simpson showed off her bikini bod, posing in a snapshot on Instagram to celebrate her 37th birthday.
Along with the cheeky snap she wrote, "Kiss My Butt 36."
Click here for more on Jessica Simpson (Instagram) jessica-simpson-celebrates

Bella Hadid shows a lot of skin Bella Hadid stripped down to pose in a Guess Classic Denim Jacket and barely-there Daisy Dukes.
The starlet showed off her bod in the pages of V Magazine.
Click here for more sexy snaps of Bella.
(TERRY RICHARDSON/ V Magazine ) bella-hadid-shows-a-lot-of-skin

Tommy Lee's hot date night Former Mtley Cre drummer Tommy Lee was spotted having a sizzling date night with former Vine star Brittany Furlan.
The rocker is 54 and the social media star is 30.
For more photos of Lee, visit X17online.com (X17) tommy-lee's-hot-date-night

LeAnn's lingerie look LeAnn Rimes performed for fans at NYC's PrideFest.
The country singer's risque ensemble was technically a dress but the sheer black getup looked more like lingerie.
Click here for more pics of Rimes on ETonline.com.
(Getty) leann's-lingerie-look

Bella's bikini body Bella Thorne rocked a tiny bikini while eating a massive burger  is the 19-year-old former Disney star trying out for Carl's Jr.?
TMZ wrote the actress was reportedly spotted at Scott Disick's backyard, who happens to be the ex-boyfriend of Kourtney Kardashian.
For more photos of Thorne, visit HollywoodLife.com (Snapchat) bella's-bikini-body

Bo Derek flaunts youthful look Bo Derek attended a TV festival Monte Carlo.
The "10" actress is 60.
(Splash News) bo-derek-flaunts-youthful-look

"Lois & Clark" stars reunite "Lois & Clark" stars Teri Hatcher and Dean Cain reunited for the Supernova Comic Con and Gaming Expo in Australia.
Soaring together again.
So fun to reunite.
Thanks to #bridgeclimbsydney #loisandclark #deancain, wrote Hatcher on Instagram.
For more photos of the star, visit HollywoodLife.com.
(Instagram) "lois-&-clark"-stars-reunite

Nikki Bella takes the plunge WWE wrestler Nikki Bella arrives at the iHeartRadio MuchMusic Video Awards (MMVA) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on June 18, 2017.
She wore a very revealing dress to the event.
Bella is engaged to fellow star John Cena.
(Reuters) nikki-bella-takes-the-plunge

Bella Thorne's pink hair Bella Thorne looks like a hot mess with her new pink hair.
The former child star donned a mesh black top showing off her black bra underneath.
She finished the look with Daisy Dukes and neon fishnet tights.
Someone please fire her stylist.
Click here for more pics of Thorne on x17online.com.
(X17) bella-thorne's-pink-hair

Iggy Pop still has 'lust for life' at 70 Iggy Pop is as youthful as ever as the iconic rocker performed at age 70 in concert at the Medimex 2017 International Music Festival in Bari, Italy.
June 10, 2017.
For more pictures of Pop, visit X17online.com (X17) iggy-pop-still-has-'lust-for-life'-at-70

Heidi Klum and Martha Hunt Heidi Klum (left) and Martha Hunt (right) proved why they are two of the top models in the world.
Klum looked radiant in white while Hunt sparkled in her silver gown.
(AP) heidi-klum-and-martha-hunt

Is she or isn't she?
Halle Berry stirred headlines when she appeared to be cradling a baby bump at the 16th Annual Chrysalis Butterfly Ball in Los Angeles.
However, the 50-year-old actress poked fun at the gossip when she captioned "can a girl have some steak and fries?"
in a photo on Instagram Monday .
A rep for Berry also told PEOPLE she's not pregnant.
To see more photos of Berry, visit x17online.com (X17) is-she-or-isn't-she?
Charlotte McKinney rocks Daisy Dukes Charlotte McKinney wore extra short denim shorts, knee-high boots, and a camo jacket at the Revolve x Madeworn x Roc96 launch event at Revolve Social Club.
To see more photos of the model, visit X17online.com (X17) charlotte-mckinney-rocks-daisy-dukes

Britney Spears reveals amazing abs Britney Spears flaunted her impressive abs ahead of her upcoming international tour.
For more photos of the 35-year-old entertainer, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram.com/britneyspears/) britney-spears-reveals-amazing-abs

Eva Longoria Can that be considered a dress?
Eva Longoria showed a lot of skin in a barely-there black and sheer gown.
The actress and producer donned the daring dress at the 20th Birthday Of L'Oreal In Cannes Gala during the 70th annual Cannes Film Festival.
Click here for more pics of the star on X17online.com (X17) eva-longoria

Priscilla Presley, 72, still ageless Priscilla Presley looked seemingly ageless as she arrived in Los Angeles from Vienna, Austria.
Click here for more pictures of Elvis Presley's ex-wife on X17online.com (X17) priscilla-presley,-72,-still-ageless

Lindsey Vonn and beau Kenan Smith Lindsey Vonn showed off her toned bod and her new boyfriend Kenan Smith at the premiere of the new "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie.
The Olympian looked stunning in a black dress with cutouts on her side.
(AP/Splash) lindsey-vonn-and-beau-kenan-smith

Charlotte McKinney poses Model Charlotte McKinney struck her sexiest post at the season launch of NightSwim at Encore Beach Club in Wynn Las Vegas.
The "Baywatch" actress looked great in a short, form-fitting dress with a plunging neckline and matching rope lace-up heels.
(Getty) charlotte-mckinney-poses

Ariel Winter and the cast of 'Modern Family' One of these things is not like the other...Ariel Winter stood out next to several of her "Modern Family" cast mates.
The actress donned a very sexy gold mini-dress while her fellow actors chose casual wear for an LA screening of their ABC show.
From l-r: Nolan Gould, Steve Levitan, Ariel Winter, Eric Stonestreet, Julie Bowen, Aubrey Anderson-Emmons, Jesse Tyler Ferguson and Ty Burrell.
(AP) ariel-winter-and-the-cast-of-'modern-family'

Paris Hilton Move over Kardashians.
It looks like Paris Hilton is trying to take back her title of sexiest socialiate.
The former reality star shared several sexy snaps of herself from a lingerie shoot on Instagram, giving the Kardashian clan a run for their money.
Click here for more pics of Hilton on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Snapchat) paris-hilton

Britney Spears Britney Spears showed off her toned abs and impressive split skills on Instagram.
The pop star proved he puts in long hours at the gym to achieve her fit physique.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) britney-spears

Chrissy Teigen and Stephanie March Chrissy Teigen (left) goes for gold in a glittery gown with a thigh-high slit at City Harvest's 23rd Annual Evening Of Practical Magic.
Bobby Flay's ex-wife Stephanie March (right) opted for a more casual frock at the same event.
(Nick Hunt/Jason Kempin for Getty Images ) chrissy-teigen-and-stephanie-march

'You oughta know' that this is Alanis Morissette MORE: 'TRANSPARENT' STAR KATHRYN HAHN ON HER MOST IMPORTANT WORKING RELATIONSHIP.
Alanis Morissette arrived for Amazon Prime Video's Emmy FYC event and screening for "Transparent'" in Hollywood featuring a glammed up look highlighting a blonde 'do.
(Getty) 'you-oughta-know'-that-this-is-alanis-morissette

Jim Carrey, is that you?
The actor shared an Easter selfie showing off a full beard and looking drastically different than fans are used to.
Click here to read more about Carrey's look.
(Twitter) jim-carrey,-is-that-you?
Party time Jennifer Garner was spotted celebrating her birthday early on April 16, 2017 with some of her pals, People magazine reports.
The actress recently officially filed for divorce from Ben Affleck.
Reese Witherspoon reportedly attended the birthday festivities.
(Splash News) party-time

Kathy Griffin Kathy Griffin did her best to fit in with "the kids."
She posted a topless photo of herself on social media saying, "I c the kidz doin these kinda pics, so" Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kathy-griffin

Katy Perry's new 'do Katy Perry showed off her very short haircut in a snap posted on Instagram.
For more details on the new hairdo, check out HollywoodLife.com.
(Instagram) katy-perry's-new-'do

Mayim Bialik's hair-raising look Mayim Bialik Instagrammed a selfie on Monday where she debuted her bed-head style.
The 41-year-old "Big Bang Theory" actress made sure to tag actor Wil Wheaton where she wished him a good morning.
Visit HollywoodLife.com for more photos of Bialik (Instagram.com/missmayim) mayim-bialik's-hair-raising-look

Paris Hilton's new man Hotel heiress Paris Hilton, 36, was spotted flaunting her boyfriend, actor/model Chris Zylka, 31, at the at the premiere of "The Leftovers" in Los Angeles.
Click here for more pics of Hilton on X17online.com (X17) paris-hilton's-new-man

Charlotte's long legs Charlotte McKinney has legs for days.
The model showed off her long gams in a short black dress at the LA Fashion Awards after party, held at Mr. Chow in West Hollywood.
Click here for more pics of McKinney on X17online.com (X17) charlotte's-long-legs

Lindsey Vonn and her dogs Lindsey Vonn loves nothing more than staying home with her three dogs.
"Love being home with these 3 crazy pups @vonndogs #snuggles," she wrote on Instagram.
The athlete apparently also loves poses in seemingly nothing but her sheets.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) lindsey-vonn-and-her-dogs

Mayim Bialik keeps it real Mayim Bialik showed fans her casual look when not in front of cameras on Instagram.
"This is what I look like on #hiatus," captioned the 41-year-old "Big Bang Theory" star.
Visit HollywoodLife.com for more photos of Bialik (Instagram.com/missmayim) mayim-bialik-keeps-it-real

Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner were all smiles as they took their kids to church together in Los Angeles.
The parents-of-three announced their split in 2015 but have yet to officially pull the plug on their more than a decade-long marriage.
(Splash) ben-affleck-and-jennifer-garner

Natasha Bure debuts sexy new look Natasha Bure, the 18-year-old daughter of actress Candace Cameron-Bure, revealed a new stylish look for fans on Instagram.
For more on Natasha Bure, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) natasha-bure-debuts-sexy-new-look

Kristen Stewart's new look Kirsten Stewart shocked everyone with her new look.
The actress debuted her bleach-blonde buzzed haircut at the premiere of IFC Films' "Personal Shopper" at The Carondelet House.
PHOTOS: See more pics of Stewart's transformation.
(Getty) kristen-stewart's-new-look

This looks familiar Jennifer Aniston leg bombed the Oscars in 2017 with a high slit dress.
The pose has been compared to Angelina Jolie's leggy moment during the Academy Awards in 2012.
(Reuters) this-looks-familiar

Mariah Mariah Carey showed off her curves in a hip-hugging red dress.
The singer rocked the red look during her performance at the Dubai Jazz Festival.
Her dress is sure to make ex-fiance James Packer jealous.
Click here for more pics of Carey on X17Online.com (X17) mariah

Jessie James Decker Jessie James Decker stayed warm on a snow day by staying inside.
The country star seems to have forgotten one crucial thing...her pants!
Click here for more pics of Decker on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) jessie-james-decker

Sadie Robertson's new haircut Sadie debuted her new 'do on Instagram.
The "Duck Dynasty" star posted a picture of herself alongside sister Rebecca Lo Robertson (left) on Instagram showing off her new bangs.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) sadie-robertson's-new-haircut

Hailey Baldwin Hailey Baldwin somehow makes hot look cool.
The model posed seductively in a little black dress while in Paris.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) hailey-baldwin

Best and worst dressed at the 2017 SAG Awards Ariel Winter (left) looked like a golden goddess at the 2017 SAG Awards in her semi-sheer lace gown.
Meanwhile, Nicole Kidman (right) seriously missed the mark in her green dress that resembled a peacock.
(AP) best-and-worst-dressed-at-the-2017-sag-awards

Katie Price What is Katie Price wearing?
The British star donned a bizarre gold skirt for this week's Britains National Television Awards.
Get a new stylist pronto Katie!
Click here for more star sightings on ETOnline.com (Getty) katie-price

Kate Beckinsale "Laughing in bathrooms with friends," Kate Beckinsale captioned a sexy snap on Instagram.
The actress proved she's still got it her ab-baring getup.
Click here for more pics of Beckinsale on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kate-beckinsale

Emily stops traffic Emily Ratajkowski stopped traffic in NYC in nothing but lingerie while walking a dog.
No, the model isn't making a fashion statement -- her risque look was for a commercial shoot for a DKNY campaign.
Click here for more pics of the model on ETonline.com.
(Steve Sands/GC Images/Getty) emily-stops-traffic

Fashion-forward first ladies Michelle Obama and Melania Trump stunned with their Inauguration Day looks.
Obama wore an A-line tweed deep red dress paired with a thin belt, and Trump sported a pale blue structured Ralph Lauren dress with a matching jacket, gloves and shoes.
(AP) fashion-forward-first-ladies

LeAnn Rimes Because everyone irons their clothes in lingerie?
The country singer shared a snap of herself in a black bra and sheer tights appearing to iron her clothes but she forgot to plug in the iron!
Click here for more pics of Rimes on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) leann-rimes

January Jones January Jones celebrated her birthday a few weeks late in Las Vegas.
The single mom proved she's still got it in a sexy, cleavage-baring number.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) january-jones

Danica Patrick The professional race car driver is proof that hard works pays off!
Danica Patrick shared a picture of her impressive abs on Instagram.
The star works hard for her fit physique and documents her workouts and healthy meals on her Instagram.
Click here for more pics of Patrick on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) danica-patrick

Kendall and Kylie Jenner While Kendall Jenner showed a lot of leg at the Golden Globes, her younger sister Kylie really pushed the limit.
The youngest Jenner sibling donned a sheer silver gown that showed off both her legs and chest.
(AP) kendall-and-kylie-jenner

Jenna Jameson Jenna Jameson is ready to meet her "little bun" in the oven.
The former porn star shared a revealing picture of her growing baby bump on Twitter saying, "Officially 27 weeks pregnant and feeling beautiful!
[I'm] in the home stretch now...
I can't wait to meet my little bun."
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Twitter) jenna-jameson

Lindsey Vonn and Kenan Smith Lindsey Vonn stepped out with her new man Kenan Smith.
Vonn and her Los Angeles Rams football player have been open about their relationship since Thanksgiving.
This is Vonn's first public romance since she split from boyfriend of three years Tiger Woods in 2015.
(Splash) lindsey-vonn-and-kenan-smith

Aly Raisman and Colton Underwood Aly Raisman and her boyfriend Colton Underwood cuddled up at Sea Fire Grill after publicly announcing their 5-month relationship earlier this week.
Sources told FOX411 that Raisman and her new beau were seen snuggling during dinner in midtown Manhattan.
(courtesy of Sea Fire Grill) aly-raisman-and-colton-underwood

Bella Thorne Bella shined in a sheer gown that fitted her toned physique perfectly.
The actress is known for pushing the limits with her over-the-top sexy getups, and her latest look did not disappoint.
(Reuters) bella-thorne

Natasha Bure Candace Cameron Bure's daughter is all grown up!
Natasha Bure, 18, shared a sexy selfie of herself (left) on Instagram.
The high school grad is making a name for herself in the music industry after competing on "The Voice."
Click here for more pics on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) natasha-bure

Kourtney Kardashian Kourtney Kardashian showed off her booty in a black dress with a cut out along her legs while flashing a sexy smile for the cameras.
Click here for more pics from Kourtney's event.
(Getty) kourtney-kardashian

Kaley Cuoco and Johnny Galecki on set Wowza!
Kaley Cuoco shared a risque snap with ex-boyfriend Johnny Galecki on Instagram.
But before you get any ideas that the duo have rekindled their romance (Cuoco is dating Karl Cook), the snap is actually a behind-the-scenes look from an upcoming episode of the "Big Bang Theory."
Guess we'll have to tune in to find out what the costumes are all about.
Click here for more pics of Cuoco on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kaley-cuoco-and-johnny-galecki-on-set

Jennifer Lopez for Harper's Bazaar Jennifer Lopez proved yet again she's one sexy mama!
The mom of twins stripped down to a sexy blue bathing suit (left) and a $16,830 Balmain dress (right) for Harper's Bazaar.
Click here for more pics from her photo shoot (Mark Seliger) jennifer-lopez-for-harper's-bazaar

Ariel Winter Ariel Winter sure knows how to make a pantsuit look sexy!
The "Modern Family" actress donned a white suit with a sexy black bra underneath.
She made sure to show lots of skin.
Click here for more on Winter.
(Getty) ariel-winter

Jessica Chastain and Kate Beckinsale Sorry Vogue, but according to these stars, cleavage has not gone out of style.
Both Jessica Chastain (left) and Kate Beckinsale clearly did not get the message that showing off your assets is no longer in vogue.
Either that, or they are fighting against the fashion magazine's claim that breasts are out.
(AP) jessica-chastain-and-kate-beckinsale

Kristen Stewart's honor KStew was honored along with eight other celebs at Elle's Women in Hollywood Awards.
When asked by People magazine at the event what she likes to wear to feel more "baller" she quipped, "Nothing!"
(AP) kristen-stewart's-honor

'Dog the Bounty Hunter' Dog the Bounty Hunter has never had the most typical sense of style.
We cant quite tell if the 63-year-old needs a cane to help him walk or if he is trying to start a new trend.
(Splash News) 'dog-the-bounty-hunter'

Emma Stone, is that you?
Emma Stone looked completely different on the cover of Vogue's November 2016 issue.
(Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott / Vogue, Reuters) emma-stone,-is-that-you?
Charlotte McKinney's night out The "Next Kate Upton" put her assets on display in a sexy black top while out with friends for a girl's night at Catch LA.
Click here for more pictures of McKinney on X17online.com (X17) charlotte-mckinney's-night-out

Helene Yorke and Bobby Flay Bobby Flay has a new love.
The celebrity chef, 51, stepped out with his girlfriend, actress Helene Yorke, who is 20 years his junior.
Flay, who is recently divorced from this third wife actress Stephanie March, looked dapper in a suit while supporting his equally dolled-up girlfriend at the New York City premiere of her new show "Graves."
(AP) helene-yorke-and-bobby-flay

Lindsey Vonn in NYC Lindsey Vonn showed off her toned midriff in a grey crop top with a matching pencil skirt as she left an interview in New York City.
Vonn is busy promoting her new book "Strong is the New Beautiful."
In an excerpt, she revealed she once succumbed to the pressure to stay thin in Hollywood.
(Splash) lindsey-vonn-in-nyc

Charlize Theron Charlize Theron was photographed looking more full-figured (left) on the Vancouver set of her upcoming film "Tully."
Theron plays a mother-of-three and it's unclear whether she has gained weight for the role or if she's wearing a bodysuit.
She certainly looked thinner in April (right).
Photos: Dramatic celebrity transformations.
(CYVR/AKM-GSI/Reuters) charlize-theron

Ava Phillippe Ava Phillippe (left) is a spitting image of her mom Reese Witherspoon.
Phillippe, 17, made her first solo red carpet debut at the launch dinner for Chanel's new perfume, Chanel No.
5 Leau.
The teenager clearly inherited her mom's good looks and sense of style.
Click here for more star sightings.
(Getty/Reuters) ava-phillippe

Kylie Jenner Kylie Jenner chose a brown latex dress for a date night with her beau Tyga.
The reality star showed off her killer curves in the revealing look.
(Splash) kylie-jenner

Julianne Hough Julianne Hough was practically glowing when she walked the carpet ahead of "Dancing With the Stars."
The dancing pro chose a black Berta gown with a plunging neckline.
The dress was mostly sheer with flower details down the front.
(ABC) julianne-hough

Tara Reid Tara Reid shocked fans when she shared a picture of herself with bruises on her face.
Turns out the bruises are really makeup as Reid is starring in a new film "Worthless" about bullying.
"Everyone be kind to each other," Reid writes in the caption.
"This is what bullying looks like.
#Worthless."
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) tara-reid-

Sistine Rose Stallone Sistine Rose Stallone, 18, chose a high-slit pale blue gown for the premiere of "Hacksaw Ridge" during the 73rd Venice Film Festival at Sala Grande in Venice, Italy.
The model had to go braless for the open-back look.
Click here for more pictures of Stallone's kid on X17online.com (X17) sistine-rose-stallone

Derick Dillard Fatherhood has changed Derick Dillard in many ways including his appearance.
The reality star has been sporting (left) a bushy, unruly beard and long locks lately.
He definitely looks different from when he first welcomed son Israel with wife Jill Duggar.
(TLC) derick-dillard

JWoww Is that really you JWoww?
The reality star looked very different (right) when she walked the red carpet at the 2016 MTV VMAs.
The former "Jersey Shore" star's strange gettup was a cross between a Kardashian and a vampire.
(Reuters) jwoww

Rebecca Black Rebecca Black shot to fame when she released her infamous "Friday" song in 2011 when she was 13.
Now the 19-year-old is more grown up and still planning on a career in music despite her video being dubbed the "worst song ever."
She has since released several more music videos on YouTube and plans to come out with an album.
Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (YouTube/Splash) rebecca-black

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley Rosie Huntington-Whiteley is a vision in pink!
The model and actress walked the red carpet in a hot pink number that showed off her long legs.
(Reuters) rosie-huntington-whiteley

'Big Bang Theory' stars back together Kaley Cuoco shared a snap of the cast of the "Big Bang Theory" all together for the filming of Season 10.
(Instagram) 'big-bang-theory'-stars-back-together

Giada De Laurentiis Giada proves she knows how to turn up the heat outside of the kitchen.
The celebrity chef showed off her figure in a low-cut orange dress in New York City.
Click here for more star sightings (AKM-GSI) giada-de-laurentiis

AnnaLynne McCord Former "90210" star AnnaLynne McCord couldn't help but stop and pose for photos on her way to dinner at Craig's restaurant in Hollywood.
The 29-year-old looked stunning in a yellow satin dress.
Click here for more on ETonline.com (Splash) annalynne-mccord

Mariah Carey Talk about a close call!
Mariah Carey nearly lost her top when in an off-the-shoulder little black dress.
She quickly saved herself from a wardrobe mulfunction by grabbing the dress and holding it up.
Good thinking Mariah!
Click here for more pics of the star on X17online.com (X17) mariah-carey

Sadie Robertson and Trevor Knight The "Duck Dynasty" star has been spotted with Texas A&M quarterback Trevor Knight since her split from boyfriend of two years Blake Coward in March but she won't open up about her secret new beau.
Her rep had "no comment" but we can't help but think the young stars are getting serious.
Knight shared this romantic picture of the pair on Instagram saying, "Texas looks good on you."
Click here for more pics on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) sadie-robertson-and-trevor-knight

Maitland Ward in body paint The former "Boy Meets World" star has become known for her sexy, over-the-top red carpet looks.
For Comic Con, Ward took it one step further and stepped out in only body paint.
"Im proud to show my body and my sexuality," Ward told FOX411 (Splash) maitland-ward-in-body-paint

Charlotte McKinney's girls' night Newly single Charlotte McKinney went out for a night on the town with a gal pal.
The model, who recently split from Stephen Dorff, looked radiant in her white getup.
(Splash) charlotte-mckinney's-girls'-night

Farrah Abraham as Lady Liberty Farrah Abraham is giving Lady Liberty a run for her money.
The reality star stopped a street performer in New York City's Rockefeller Center and tried on their outfit.
Who do you think makes a better Staue of Liberty?
(FOXNews.com) farrah-abraham-as-lady-liberty

Bella Hadid for Calvin Klein Bella Hadid stripped down to pose in Calvin Klein underwear in a new ad for the fashion company.
The 19-year-old also showed off her curves in a pair of Calvin Klein jeans and nothing else.
(Tyrone Lebon) bella-hadid-for-calvin-klein

Missi Pyle Missi Pyle showed off a whole lotta skin in a summery dress.
The actress nearly had a wardrobe malfunction as she walked the red carpet.
(AP) missi-pyle

Emma Roberts Emma Roberts looked very thing wearing a black tank top and mesh black leggings as she left the gym.
Click here for more pics of the actress on X17online.com (X17) emma-roberts

Toni Braxton Toni Braxton left little to the imagination.
The star donned a long, sheer black gown with cutouts at the BET Awards.
(AP) toni-braxton

Olivia Culpo Olivia Culpo shows her ex Nick Jonas what he's missing!
The beauty pageant winner lit up the red carpet in a bronze dress with a plunging neckline.
Click here for more star sightings.
(Getty) olivia-culpo

Lindsey Vonn Lindsey Vonn shared a nearly-nude selfie on Instagram.
The professional athlete wrote alongside the sexy picture, "Goodnight Austria!
Goodnight Austria!"
Click here for more pictures of Vonn on HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) lindsey-vonn

Shay Mitchell and Ashley Benson "Pretty Little Liar" stars Shay Mitchell, left, and Ashley Benson put their best leg forward at the 2016 iHeartRADIO MuchMusic Video Awards.
The co-stars stole the show in their coordinated outfits.
(AP) shay-mitchell-and-ashley-benson

Sophie Tweed Simmons Gene Simmons' little girl is all grown up!
Sophie Tweed Simmons wore a revealing dress to the Los Angeles premiere of "The Neon Demon."
Click here to see more of what the stars are up to.
(Getty) sophie-tweed-simmons

Ireland Baldwin Ireland Baldwin almost busted out of her little black blazer at the Max Mara's Face of the Future Awards.
The model left little to the imagination in the outfit that featured a plunging neckline.
Click here for more star sightings.
(Getty) ireland-baldwin

Kim Kardashian goes skin tight Kim Kardashian arrived in Paris wearing a super low cut dress.
For more Kim pics go to X17Online.com.
(X17Online) kim-kardashian-goes-skin-tight

Jessica Stam That's one way to make a statement.
Model Jessica Stam displayed her long gams in a long, black dress with a serious slit up her thighs.
Click here for more star sightings.
(Getty) jessica-stam

Adriana Lima in blue The model attended the 2016 Fragrance Foundation Awards at Alice Tully Hall in New York.
Lima donned a sexy pale blue dress that showed off her best assets.
(AP) adriana-lima-in-blue

Elle Fanning in Rome Elle Fanning sparkles in white at The Neon Demon photocall in Rome, Italy on June 6, 2016.
Go to X17Online for more pics of Elle.
(X17Online) elle-fanning-in-rome

Khloe is lovely in latex Khloe Kardashian is proof that hard work pays off.
The reality star has been working on her figure for the past year or so and it shows.
Kardashian looked amazing in a skin-tight pink latex dress at Scott Disick's birthday party.
Click here for more pictures of the star.
(Getty) khloe-is-lovely-in-latex

Mayim Bialik's Holy Land shoot Mayim Bialik struck a pose in the Holy Land.
The "Big Bang Theory" actress donned a number of outfits for her shoot with Watch!
Magazine in Israel.
Click here to see the rest of Bialik's photos.
(Gilles-Marie Zimmermann) mayim-bialik's-holy-land-shoot

Karlie Kloss The model donned a sexy dress with some serious cutouts for her appearance on "The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon."
See what else she did during her appearance here.
(Getty) karlie-kloss

Carmen's electrifying look Carmen Electra put her curves on display in a skin-tight lacy red dress.
The electrifying look worked for the celebrity who posed for cameras at the premiere of "Alice Through the Looking Glass."
(AP) carmen's-electrifying-look

Kourtney shows off Hot mama!
Kourtney Kardashian showed off her lean legs and tight tummy in a black leather bralette with matching shorts and thigh-high boots.
Click here for more pictures of the reality star on X17online.com (X17online) kourtney-shows-off

Chanel Iman's sheer look Chanel Iman made a show-stopping entrance at amfAR's 23rd Cinema Against AIDS Gala.
The model showed off her best assets in the see-through Marchesa gown.
(AP) chanel-iman's-sheer-look

Charlotte McKinney Charlotte McKinney stepped out looking worse for wear.
The model let it all hang out as she left The Nice Guy in West Hollywood.
Photos: Hollywood's hottest bikini bodies (Splash) charlotte-mckinney

Jennifer Lawrence goes glam Jennifer Lawrence looks stunning at a screening of "X-Men Apocalypse" in London on May 9, 2016.
(Reuters) jennifer-lawrence-goes-glam

Own Gigi Hadid From Thursday, May 6 to Friday, May 8, New Yorkers will have a chance to take home Gigi Hadid in the form of a free piece of art featuring the supermodel.
The artwork will be given away as a part of the collaboration between Stella Artois and Visionaire.
In honor of its 65th anniversary issue, Visionaire will give away this new set of exclusive limited-edition artwork for free at FREE ART Kiosks and the FREE ART Trucks throughout the city.
(Visionaire 65) own-gigi-hadid

Jen and Ben go to church Jennifer Garner and ex Ben Affleck headed to church together with their kids.
The exes enjoyed the family outing as rumors continue that the two might be back together.
Click here for more pictures of the duo on X17online.com (X17) jen-and-ben-go-to-church

Mayim is a bedhead Mayiam Bialik woke up like this.
The "Big Bang Theory" star wrote on Instagram, "This is post-passover bedhead, cultivated by a weekend of preparing food."
Click here for more pictures of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) mayim-is-a-bedhead

Taylor Swift at Coachella Taylor Swift debuted a much blonder-hairdo at Coachella.
The singer went platinum to cheer on her boyfriend Calvin Harris.
Click here for more pictures of the singer on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) taylor-swift-at-coachella

Lindsey Vonn all dressed up Professional skier Lindsey Vonn was a vision in white at the alice + olivia by Stacey Bendet Los Angeles Runway Show.
Vonn looked sexy in her white lace dress with a plunging neckline and cut outs.
Click here for more must-see star sightings.
(Getty) lindsey-vonn-all-dressed-up

Jennifer Lawrence forgets her bra Jennifer Lawrence strutted her stuff at the Sont Pictures Entertainment presentation at CinemaCon 2016 in Las Vegas.
The actress went sans bra at the event causing quite a stir.
Lawrence was promoting her new film "Passengers."
(AP) jennifer-lawrence-forgets-her-bra

Eric and Jessie James Decker get frisky The country singer and her football-playing hubby got cozy on the set of Decker's upcoming music video for "Lights Down Low."
Nearly 3 years into their marriage and it looks like the Deckers know how to keep the flame lit.
Click here for more pictures of the stars on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) eric-and-jessie-james-decker-get-frisky

Burt Reynolds and first girlfriend Burt Reynolds reunited with his high school girlfriend Lawlor Scurry when she showed up at his book signing in Florida.
Reynolds revealed that Scurry was his first kiss!
Click here for the best TV show and Movie cast reunions.
(Getty) burt-reynolds-and-first-girlfriend

Stapleton surprises kids Chris Stapleton, along with Ram Trucks and ACM Lifting Lives, surprised students at his former high school late last week with the gift of some much-needed new band instruments.
He also put on a free concert for the kids.
(Rick Diamond/Courtesy Ram Trucks) stapleton-surprises-kids

Nina Agdal works out Work hard, play hard.
Sports Illustrated cover model Nina Agdal celebrated her birthday with a tough workout.
The model attended Barrys Bootcamp in Miami Beach to ring in her 24 birthday.
(Barrys Bootcamp Miami Beach ) nina-agdal-works-out

Camille Rowe French-American model Camille Rowe, 26, is Playboys latest non-nude Playmate of the Month.
Miss April 2016 was no stranger to the magazine.
Ive collected Playboy magazines from the 1960s and 1970s since I was a teenager.
The entire aesthetic and the girls themselves are so classically beautiful, which is what we tried to imitate with my pictorial.
Click for more pics of Camille on Playboy.com.
(Courtesy Playboy/Guy Aroch) camille-rowe

Adrienne Bailon at the beach Talk show host Adrienne Bailon spent time in Tulum, Mexico, soaking up the sun and showing off her beach bod at the Dreams Tulum Resort & Spa.
Click here for more pics from X17 Online (x17 Online) adrienne-bailon-at-the-beach

Irina Shayk and Eva Longoria One event, two lovely ladies in red.
Model Irina Shayk (left) and actress Eva Longoria showed up in red dresses for a L'Oreal Paris event during Paris Fashion Week.
While Shayk's shorter number showed a lot more skin, Longoria's skin-tight dress was equally sexy.
Click here for more pictures at X17online.com.
(X17) irina-shayk-and-eva-longoria

Ariel Winter in black Ariel Winter showed off her curves in a black jumpsuit as she attended The Dream Builders Project 3rd Annual 'A Brighter Future For Children' Charity Gala in California.
Click here to see what else the stars are up to on ETonline.com.
(Getty) ariel-winter-in-black

Margot Robbie takes the plunge Margot Robbie took the plunge at the premiere of her newest movie "Whiskey Tango Foxtrot."
The actress donned a sexy black romper with a low-cut neckline.
(AP) margot-robbie-takes-the-plunge

Taylor Swift shows off Taylor Swift showed a lot of skin at the 2016 Vanity Fair Oscars Party.
The singer chose a sexy black gown with a plunging neckline and a slit that went all the way up her leg.
(AP) taylor-swift-shows-off

Jennifer Lopez is red hot Jennifer Lopez's bedazzled red ensemble turned heads at the party for the finalists of "American Idol XV" in West Hollywood.
The sheer jumpsuit hugged the singer's curves in all the right places and looked like it was made for her.
(Reuters) jennifer-lopez-is-red-hot

Katherine Heigl's makeunder It looks like Katherine Heigl gave herself a makeunder.
The typically stylish star was spotted on a flight into LA looking drab.
Her curly new hairdo and nerdy glasses need to go.
Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com.
(X17) katherine-heigl's-makeunder

Nina Agdal, Samantha Hoopes, Ashley Graham, Hannah Ferguson and Hannah Davis These ladies strut their stuff at the 2016 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue launch party at Brookfield Place in New York.
From left to right: Nina Agdal, Samantha Hoopes, Ashley Graham, Hannah Ferguson and Hannah Davis.
(AP) nina-agdal,-samantha-hoopes,-ashley-graham,-hannah-ferguson-and-hannah-davis

Juno Temple Don't underestimate Juno Temple.
The up-and-coming actress has three movies at Sundance but is sick of people judging her based on the roles she plays.
"Like, 'Oh, my God, Juno has three movies at Sundance, and shes got her t--s out in two of them!
Who gives a flying f--k, dude?
Temple told GQ.
Click here for more photos of her shoot with the magazine.
(Beau Grealy/GQ) juno-temple

Kaley Cuoco works out Kaley Cuoco is proof that hard work pays off!
The recently single star showed off her rock-hard abs after going to a yoga class.
Click here for more pics of Cuoco on X17online.com.
(X17) kaley-cuoco-works-out

Alessandra Ambrosio's sexy look Alessandra Ambrosio turned heads at the 13th annual "Leather & Laces" mega party at Super Bowl 50 in San Francisco, California.
The super model donned a black bandeau top and mini black skirt that was held together by a mesh metal piece.
Click here for more must-see star sightings.
(Getty) alessandra-ambrosio's-sexy-look

Penelope Cruz walks the carpet Penelope Cruz did her best blue steel pose during the premiere "Zoolander 2" in Madrid, Spain.
The Spanish actress stunned in a strapless gold and white dress.
(AP) penelope-cruz-walks-the-carpet

Rupert Grint and Bonnie Wright "Harry Potter" siblings reunite!
Rupert Grint (left) and Bonnie Wright, who played Ron and Ginny Weasley in the "Harry Potter" series shared a picture of their reunion on Instagram.
Click here for more TV show and movie reunions.
(Instagram/Reuters) rupert-grint-and-bonnie-wright

Heidi Klum puts best foot forward Heidi Klum put her best leg forward at the Australian premiere of "Zoolander 2."
The model showed off her legs in a black dress that had a plunging neckline and slits.
Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com.
(X17online.com) heidi-klum-puts-best-foot-forward

What's Rita Ora wearing?
Singer Rita Ora arrived for Atelier Versaces Spring-Summer 2016 Haute Couture fashion collection presented in Paris in an orange number that barely counts as a dress.
The singer definitely pushed the limits in the cut-out outfit.
(AP) what's-rita-ora-wearing?
Jason Aldean and Brittany Kerr's PDA Too much PDA!
Jason Aldean and his wife Brittany Kerr looked very much in love in a new Instagram post.
The country couple married in 2015 and it looks like they are still in the honeymoon phase.
7 Celebrity Couples Who Go Too Far With Their PDA.
(Instagram) jason-aldean-and-brittany-kerr's-pda

'Friends' meets 'Big Bang Theory' "Big Bang Theory" and "Friends" fans prepare to freak out.
Kaley Cuoco shared a picture of many of the sitcom stars in one place.
"FRIENDS #MEETS BBT," she wrote on Instagram.
The reunion took place at NBC's "Must See TV: A Tribute to James Burrows" special.
(Instagram) 'friends'-meets-'big-bang-theory'

Jennifer Lopez and Casper Smart That's one smart couple.
Jennifer Lopez's boyfriend, Casper Smart, supported his love at the opening night of her Las Vegas residency.
While Smart looked dapper in his suit, JLo stole the show in a sexy white dress.
(AP) jennifer-lopez-and-casper-smart

Emily Ratajkowski flexes Emily Ratajkowski flexed her arm muscles at SVEDKA Vodkas Broken Resolutions Bash at Hyde Sunset in Los Angeles, California.
The model turned actress wore a skin-tight dress with a plunging neckline that showed off more than her muscles.
(Michael Simon/StarTraksphoto.com) emily-ratajkowski-flexes

The Wives of 'Mad Max:Fury Road' Rosie Huntington-Whiteley, Abbey Lee, Zoe Kravitz, Courtney Eaton and Riley Keough from "Mad Max: Fury Road" at the 21st Annual Critics' Choice Awards on January 17, 2016. the-wives-of-'mad-max:fury-road'

Kaley Cuoco and Johnny Galecki Even though the "Big Bang Theory" costars and former lovers have stated multiple times that they are not dating, the pair got super close at the People's Choice Awards on Wednesday night.
Click here for more pictures of Cuoco on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Getty) kaley-cuoco-and-johnny-galecki

Shelley Hennig The "Teen Wolf" walked the red carpet at the People's Choice Awards in Los Angeles in an electric blue jumper with a serious cutout.
She told FOX411, "It's insane (to be nominated)!
First of all I never knew I would be an actress and now I'm at the People's Choice Awards with a movie, 'Unfriended' that is nominated and 'Teen Wolf'it's even more exciting that the fans are the ones that got us here."
(Getty) shelley-hennig

Alyssa Milano shorter do Alyssa Milano showed off her new shorter hairdo and fresh makeup on Instagram.
The star donned a Ralph Lauren sweater and a black skirt with red flowers from Bambah Boutique.
Click here to see what other stars are up to on Instagram.
(Instagram) alyssa-milano-shorter-do

Lauren Cohan "The Walking Dead's" Lauren Cohan showed off her killer figure in Shape magazine.
The star explained, "I was very skinny as a kid...I never worried about how I looked.
In my teens, though, I started to be more aware of my body, and I didnt like being skinny.
People made fun of me for it.
So when I got to college, I ate a lot of junk and gained weight.
I loved it because I didnt stand out as a bony girl anymore!
Eating became a way of not getting attention for looking too skinny, but it was also self-sabotage.
In the last few years, Ive gotten back on track with exercising for fun and eating right, and now Im in a happy place with myself."
(James Macari/SHAPE Magazine) lauren-cohan

Hannah Davis's sparkler Hannah Davis showed off a lot more than her engagement ring from Derek Jeter.
The newly-engaged model put her toned tummy on display in a new photoshoot with GQ magazine.
Click here for more pictures of Davis' photoshoot with GQ.
(Peggy Sirota for GQ) hannah-davis's-sparkler

Kaley Cuoco's abs Wowza!
Kaley Cuoco showed off her rock-hard abs in a photo on Instagram.
The star also teased that she'll be appearing on the hit show "Lip Sync Battle."
Click here for Hollywood's hottest bikini bods.
(Instagram) kaley-cuoco's-abs

Sadie Robertson's red dress The "Duck Dynasty" star looked radiant in red as she celebrated the 54th Armed Forces Gala & Gold Medal dinner in New York City.
"Thank you to all the men & women who serve," Robertson shared on Instagram.
Click here for more pictures of the reality star on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Getty) sadie-robertson's-red-dress

Francesca Eastwood Francesca, the daughter of Clint Eastwood, looked like she had a little too much fun after a night of partying at The Nice Guy in West Hollywood.
Click here for more pictures of the reality star on X17online.com.
(X17) francesca-eastwood

Selena Gomez performs Selena Gomez rocked out in a sexy black leotard and corset-inspired top during WiLD 94.9's FM's Jingle Ball 2015 presented by Capital One at ORACLE Arena in Oakland, California.
(Getty for iHeartMedia) selena-gomez-performs

RaeLynn, Blake Shelton, Cassadee Pope Blake Shelton looked like a proud coach with his arms wrapped around two of his most sucessful "Voice" contestants Raelynn (left) and winner Cassadee Pope.
The "Voice" girls reunited to honor their former coach at CMT Artist of the Year in Nashville.
More: Gwen Stefani Noticeably Absent At Blake Sheltons Artist Of The Year Honor: Why?
(Getty) raelynn,-blake-shelton,-cassadee-pope

Sadie Robertson's new tattoo Sadie Robertson showed off her first tattoo in a new selfie with her grandmother on Instagram.
The "Duck Dynasty" star had the word "fearless" inked on her arm to remind herself that she is "fearless in The Name Of Jesus."
She added that the tattoo was "daddy approved."
Click here for more photos of the reality star on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) sadie-robertson's-new-tattoo

Gillian Anderson Gillian Anderson looked red hot in a sophisticated knee-length dress that she paired with strappy gold sandals at the Evening Standard theatre awards in London.
The actress will reprise her "X-Files" role; click here to watch the new trailer.
(Getty) gillian-anderson

Kaley Cuoco's interesting outfit Kaley Cuoco didn't dress for the paparazzi.
The "Big Bang Theory" star wore an interesting outfit to the gym that included a blue beanie and a ill-fitting purple shorts.
Click here for more pictures of Cuoco on X17online.com.
(X17online) kaley-cuoco's-interesting-outfit

Eugena Washington "America's Next Top Model" season 7 contestant Eugena Washington looked glamorous in her Playboy magazine shoot.
The model posed for a 10-page pictorial inside the magazine as its December Playmate of the Month.
Click here to see more of Washington's Playboy photoshoot.
(Playboy) eugena-washington

Shannen Doherty is back Shannen Doherty made her first red carpet appearance since revealing she had been diagnosed with breast cancer in August.
The former "Charmed" star donned a loose-fitting belted black gown as she attended the 4th Annual Baby2Baby Gala held at 3Labs in Culver City, Calif. (AP) shannen-doherty-is-back

Kylie Jenner's date night Kylie Jenner turned heads in a low-cut black jumpsuit.
The reality star wore the sexy outfit on date night with her beau Tyga.
Click here for more pictures of Jenner on X17online.com.
(X17online) kylie-jenner's-date-night

Lindsey Vonn's health scare Lindsey Vonn shared a picture of herself from a hospital room this weekend.
The Olympic skier is no stranger to injuries, but this time her injury wasn't caused on the slopes.
"So the story is that my dogs got rowdy fighting over a dang Frisbee and I tried to break it up but got bit instead.
Fun weekend," Vonn tweeted on Saturday.
Click here to see the graphic photo of Vonn's injury.
(Twitter) lindsey-vonn's-health-scare

Charlotte McKinney's sexy look That's a whole lotta leg!
Charlotte McKinney chose a sexy black dress with an Angelina Jolie-inspired leg slit for GQ Mexicos Men of the Year awards.
Click here for pictures of the model's sexy Halloween costume.
(Getty) charlotte-mckinney's-sexy-look

Miranda Lambert wins Miranda Lambert donned a sheer lace top over a white bra while she proudly showed off her BMI award.
She posed with president and CEO Michael O'Neill (left) and writer Jody Williams in Nashville.
Click here for more pictures of the country star on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Getty) miranda-lambert-wins

Jessica Simpson and Eric Johnson's costumes Jessica Simpson and her husband Eric Johnson dressed up as Christie Brinkley and Clark Griswold from the "National Lampoon Vacation" films.
Talk about a beauty and a beast!
Click here to see the best celebrity Halloween costumes of 2015.
(Instagram) jessica-simpson-and-eric-johnson's-costumes

Nicole Trunfio Is that even a dress?
The Australian model walked the red carpet at the ELLE Style Awards in an outfit that was a wardrobe malfunction waiting to happen.
What was Nicole Trunfio thinking?
Click here to see what the star's are wearing now on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Getty) nicole-trunfio

James Franco tattoo?
James Franco clearly has a lot of love for his X costar Emma Watson.
The actor shared a picture of himself with a tattoo of Watson's face on his neck.
But the tat is likely a fake as Franco tagged the artist who gave him the tattoo as Cheyenne Randall who reposted the pic on her account saying, "#shoppedtattoos."
She is known for her faux tattoo art.
Click here for more pics of Watson on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) james-franco-tattoo?
Sexy Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump Playboy got political this year with some ideas for Halloween costumes.
Like Donald Trump or Bernie Sanders?
The magazine sexed up the presidential candidates for a 2015 Halloween costume.
Click here to see more photos.
(Playboy) sexy-bernie-sanders-and-donald-trump

Hailey Baldwin's strappy dress Hailey Baldwin walked the red carpet at the 2015 MTV European Music Awards in Milan, Italy in a barely-there dress.
The model showed off her long longs and curves in the strappy mini.
(AP) hailey-baldwin's-strappy-dress

Sarah Silverman's black dress Sarah Silverman turned heads in a black dress featuring a plunging neckline at the LA Premiere of "I Smile Back" held at ArcLight Hollywood.
It's definitely one of the sexier looks the comedian has ever worn.
(AP) sarah-silverman's-black-dress

Beyonce steals the show Beyonce stole the show again.
The singer arrived in a sexy purple dress at the Tidal X: 1020 Amplified by HTC concert at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York.
Talk about one hot mama!
(AP) beyonce-steals-the-show

Eddie Murphy and Paige Butler Eddie Murphy proudly showed off his girlfriend of three years, Paige Butcher, as they arrived for the Mark Twain prize for Humor honoring Murphy at the Kennedy Center in Washington.
PHOTOS: Paige Butler playful at the beach in red bikini (Reuters) eddie-murphy-and-paige-butler

Jessie James Decker gets real New mom for the second time Jessie James Decker shared a photo of her c-section scar on Instagram in an attempt to keep it real with her fans.
She wrote, "I appreciate all of the sweet comments about how tiny I look after baby!
But I don't want to mislead any mommy's who just had babies and are stressing!
I gained 55 pounds with my daughter and only 27 this time...I am still 15 pounds away from what I was originally before I got pregnant with Vivianne.
I take occasional walks but haven't done anything yet to try and lose weight and am in no rush...My tummy is still swollen and you can see my c-section scar and pooch!"
Click here to see pictures of Decker's new baby on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) jessie-james-decker-gets-real

Selena Gomez performs on 'Today' Selena Gomez performs on NBC's "Today" show in a slinky, black pantsuit with strategically placed cutouts.
The singer is busy promoting her new album "Revival."
(AP) selena-gomez-performs-on-'today'

Ronda Rousey's late night look Ronda Rousey showed off her sexier side on "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon."
The MMA fighter donned a black dress that revealed a lot of skin for the late night talk show.
(NBC) ronda-rousey's-late-night-look

Hadid sisters show skin Models Gigi, left, and Bella Hadid stepped out in sexy outfits during Paris Fashion Week.
The famous siblings are taking the fashion world by storm.
Click here to see photos of Gigi with her boyfriend Joe Jonas (X17online ) hadid-sisters-show-skin

Kaley Cuoco is single again Ryan who?
Kaley Cuoco made her first public appearance since announcing her split from Ryan Sweeting on Sept. 25.
The "Big Bang Theory" star looked stunning in a little black dress as she attended the Longines International Races Gala on Oct. 1 in Los Angeles.
(Shutterstock Rex for EEM) kaley-cuoco-is-single-again

Tara Reid is too thin Tara Reid showed off her scarily-thin figure at the beach in Malibu.
The actress has long been criticized for her thin frame telling OK Magazine in 2008, "I'm not too thin.
I go up 10 pounds, I do down 10 pounds...I can't win!"
Click here for more pictures of Reid's bikini body.
(Ability Films) tara-reid-is-too-thin

Dave, is that you?
It seems David Letterman is really enjoying his retirement.
The comedian looked nearly unrecognizable with a beard.
Click here for more snaps of Letterman's new look.
(Splash) dave,-is-that-you?-

Miranda shows off skin, beau Miranda Kerr stepped out with her boyfriend Evan Spiegel and showed off her toned tummy in a revealing crop top.
For more celebrity snaps, check out X17.
(X17Online.com ) miranda-shows-off-skin,-beau

Victoria and David Beckham Victoria Beckham was spotted with an embarrassing wet stain on her pants as she left dinner with her husband David Beckham.
The designer was celebrating the one-year anniversary of her London flagship store.
She claimed the wet spot was from a spilled drink...click here to see what more she had to say.
(Splash) victoria-and-david-beckham

Jessica Simpson shops Jessica Simpson in Beverly Hills, in a tight brown dress and heels, picks up something from the pharmacy with a friend while her husband Eric Johnson wait in the car.
For more hot pics of Jessica go to X17Online.
jessica-simpson-shops

'Game of Thrones' celebration What's going on here?
"Game of Thrones" co-creator David Benioff (top center) flips the bird at a cameraman while his wife, actress Amanda Peet (bottom left), smooches former "GOT" star Pedro Pascal at HBO's Official 2015 Emmy After Party at The Plaza at the Pacific Design Center.
Click here for more stylish celebrity couples at the Emmys.
(Getty) 'game-of-thrones'-celebration

Sandra Lee is back Sandra Lee made her first public appearance after undergoing surgery in August for complications following her double mastectomy in May.
The celebrity chef looked vibrant in a pale pink dress at the 67th Primetime Emmy Awards on Sunday.
(AP) sandra-lee-is-back

Kate Upton busts out Kate Upton is busting out.
The model attended Harpers BAZAAR ICONS event during Fashion Week in a tight, black dress that left little to the imagination.
(AP) kate-upton-busts-out

Salma Hayek shows off Salma Hayek knows how to show off her best assets.
The actress arrived in a knee-length dress with a low-cut neckline on the red carpet for the film "Septembers of Shiraz" during the 40th Toronto International Film Festival.
(Reuters) salma-hayek-shows-off

Jessica Simpson turns heads Jessica Simpson turned heads in New York City wearing a tight black dress that showed off her cleavage.
The top of Simpson's dress appeared to be some sort of corset and the blonde mom finished off the look with a pair of shades.
Click here for more must-see star sightings.
(Splash News) jessica-simpson-turns-heads

Dwayne Johnson saves pups Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson spent his Labor Day weekend saving puppies.
The actor shared a photo of himself with his two new dogs on Instagram after he jumped into his pool, clothed, to pull out one of the pups who couldn't swim.
Click here for more photos of The Rock.
(Instagram) dwayne-johnson-saves-pups

Taylor Armstrong Former "Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" star Taylor Armstrong stumbled out of a VMAs after-party with her husband John Bluher.
She wore a fitted dress with platform heel.
Click here for more pictures of the couple on X17online.com.
(X17online.com) taylor-armstrong

Amber Rose and Blac Chyna Who says there are no female superheroes?
Amber Rose and Blac Chyna dressed to kill as their new reality show gets underway.
Go to X17Online.com for more pics of the daring duo.
(X17) amber-rose-and-blac-chyna

Amanda Bynes dresses down Amanda Bynes dressed casually to meet her probation officer at a police station in West Hollywood.
The actress has less than a year of her probation sentence of driving with a suspended license.
Click here for more pictures of the star on X17Online.com.
(X17online.com) amanda-bynes-dresses-down

Mayim Bialik's modest look Mayim Bialik donned a modest and stylish black dress at the Television Academy's 67th Emmy Performance Peer Group Celebration in Beverly Hills.
The actress told FOX411 that she values modest dressing saying, "Being a modest dresser, that for me is a certain amount of my religious faith -- privacy and chastity.
Just because I have a body, doesnt mean it means to be on display."
(AP) mayim-bialik's-modest-look

Emma Roberts' new ad Emma Robertsons showed her softer side in a new campaign for Aerie.
The "Scream Queens" actress stripped down to her bra and underwear in one of the sexier photos.
(Ali Mitton) emma-roberts'-new-ad

Carmen Electra Carmen Electra showed off her glowing tan and bare midriff in a blue ensemble on Saturday.
The actress was clearly dressed for the California weather.
(AP) carmen-electra

Stana Katic Stana Katic proved yet again that she can rock any red carpet.
The "Castle" star looked smoking in a white dress with a plunging neckline at the premiere of "Hand of God" held at the Ace Hotel in Los Angeles.
(AP) stana-katic

Christine Ouzounian Ben Affleck's ex-nanny Christine Ouzounian is all smiles as she leavesa private residence in Los Angeles and hops into her $43,000+ Lexus that the actor reportedly gave her.
Click here for more photos of Ouzounian.
(X17online.com) christine-ouzounian

Elle Fanning in 'About Ray' Elle Fanning takes on the role of a transgender teen in the upcoming film "About Ray."
Fanning stars as Ray, a teenager who is transitioning from female to male.
The film also stars Tate Donovan, Susan Sarandon and Naomi Watts.
Click here to watch the trailer.
(Courtesy of Big Beach Films) elle-fanning-in-'about-ray'

Chrissy Teigen business attire Chrissy Teigen's idea of business attire?
A pinstriped bra comb for the panel of her new television series "Fablife" at the Television Critics Association Cable Summer Press Tour in Beverly Hills, California.
(Reuters) chrissy-teigen-business-attire

Matthew and Rooster McConaughey Move over Matt, there's a new McConaughey in town.
Matthew McConaughey's older brother Rooster has a new show on CNBC.
Think "Shark Tank" but Texas-style.
Rooster teamed up with Gil Prather and Butch Gilliam for the new show.
Do you see the family resemblance?
(Reuters/CNBC) matthew-and-rooster-mcconaughey

Carrie Underwood's post-baby bod Carrie Underwood showed off her post-baby bod in a pair of Daisy Dukes while shooting a music video in the Mojave Desert.
The new mom paired the shorts with a simple white tee and over-the-knew brown cowboy boots.
She's not the only country singer with a fit figure.
Click here for LeAnn Rimes' sexiest bikini looks.
(AKM Images/GSI Media) carrie-underwood's-post-baby-bod

Eva Longoria's blue look Eva Longoria showed off her killer curves in an electric blue dress at the LA Special Screening of "Kahlil Gibran's The Prophet" held at LACMA's Bing Theatre in Los Angeles.
(AP) eva-longoria's-blue-look

Miranda Lambert and RaeLynn What's the best way to get over heartbreak?
For Miranda Lambert it's Jesus, girlfriends and coffee.
The newly single star shared a makeup-free picture with fellow singer RaeLynn saying, "Thank you Jesus for girlfriends and coffee.
Oh and concealer!
#wewokeuplikethis."
Click here for more pictures of the "Automatic" singer.
(Instagram) miranda-lambert-and-raelynn

LeAnn Rimes loves the Ravens LeAnn Rimes wants you to know just how much she loves the Baltimore Ravens.
It looks like the singer was in such a rush to share the love that she forgot to put pants on before snapping this Instagram picture.
She wrote, "One more for #Baltimore@Ravens #LRBaltimore."
Click here for more celebrity snaps of the day.
(Instagram) leann-rimes-loves-the-ravens

George Bush, Katy Perry and Bill Clinton Katy Perry for president?
The pop star posed with former presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton and jokingly captioned the pictures, "42, 43, 46?!"
Click here to see what else the stars are up to on Instagram.
(Instagram) george-bush,-katy-perry-and-bill-clinton

Nina Dobrev and Kate Hudson Nina Dobrev (left) and Kate Hudson looked equally radiant at Leonardo DiCaprio's 2nd Annual Saint-Tropez Gala.
The former "Vampire Diaries" star showed off her glowing skin in a white dress with gold accents while Hudson played peekaboo with the cameras in a black dress with cutouts.
Click here for more pictures of the star-studded bash.
(Getty) nina-dobrev-and-kate-hudson

Charlotte McKinney's white dress Charlotte McKinney showed off her tan and long legs in a short white dress during Miami Swim Week at Galore Magazine's launch party.
The model posed for a picture at the Miami Beach Edition-hosted event.
(World Red Eye/BFA) charlotte-mckinney's-white-dress

'8 Simple Rules' reunion Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting shared a picture of herself and her "8 Simple Rules" siblings.
The actress and her former cast mates, Amy Davidson and Martin Spanjers reunited to remember the death of their on-screen grandfather, James Garner who died last year.
Click here for more TV show cast reunions.
(Instagram) '8-simple-rules'-reunion

Lindsey Vonn and sister Karin Kildow Lindsey Vonn brought her sister Karin Kildow as her date to the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Sports Awards in Westwood, California.
The professional skier is newly single following her split from Tiger Woods.
Click here for more pictures of the stunning athlete.
(Getty) lindsey-vonn-and-sister-karin-kildow

Christie Brinkley and her brood Christie Brinkley and her beautiful brood soaked up some sun while on a family vacation.
The proud mama showed off her eldest (with Billy Joel), Alexa, 29, and her two kids with ex-husband Peter Cook, Jack, 20, and Sailor, 17.
It's hard to believe the model is old enough to have a 29-year-old!
Click here for more hot bikini bods in Hollywood.
(Instagram) christie-brinkley-and-her-brood

Michelle Rodriguez's silver dress Michelle Rodriguez stunned in silver at Jean-Paul Gaultier's fall-winter 2015/2016 Haute Couture fashion collection presented in Paris, France.
The ensemble is a far cry from the actress' typically tomboyish style.
(AP) michelle-rodriguez's-silver-dress

Bella Thorne's beau Bella Thorne proudly showed off her new boyfriend Gregg Sulkin at The h.wood Group's "Red, White and Bootsy" Bootsy Bellows pop up at Nobu Malibu.
The teen star and her handsome beau spent the holiday weekend together in Florida.
(The h.wood Group) bella-thorne's-beau

What's Demi wearing?
Demi needs a need stylist pronto!
The singer chose a strange ensemble for her "Cool For The Summer" single release party in New York City.
Nothing about this look worked from her strappy sandals to the high-waisted jean shorts and Lovato's black bra.
The typically-stylish singer needs a new look.
(Getty) what's-demi-wearing?
Friendly exes There's no "Bad Blood" between Taylor Swift and her ex Joe Jonas.
Despite being dumped via phone call, Swift and Jonas (left) seemed to be having a great time in London along with Swift's current beau, Calvin Harris (right), Karlie Kloss (center) and Gigi Hadid (second from left).
The singer captioned the pic, "Little known fact: Karlie is secretly an unofficial historian/London tour guide.
Kind of."
Click here for more pictures of Swift on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Instagram) friendly-exes

Sarah Hyland and Dominic Sherwood Sarah Hyland showed off her killer curves and new man at the Much Music Awards.
The "Modern Family" actress and her model beau Dominic Sherwood got a little handsy on the red carpet.
Hyland and Sherwood both chose black ensembles for the event and Hyland didn't shy away from showing a little (okay, a lot) of skin.
Click here for more photos of the actress on Hollywoodlife.com.
(Reuters/Getty) sarah-hyland-and-dominic-sherwood

Matthew Perry and Lisa Kudrow Lisa Kudrow joined her "Friend's" co-star Matthew Perry when she showed up to present him with a special award recognizing his efforts to help those struggling with addiction.
Perry, who has battled addiction himself, was honored at Phoenix House's Beverly Hills gala.
(Getty) matthew-perry-and-lisa-kudrow

Selena Gomez channels Angelina Jolie Selena Gomez channeled her inner Angelina Jolie in a blood-red dress with a slit all the way up her thigh.
It's a pretty sexy look for the former Disney star who posed for photographers to promote the film, "Hotel Transylvania 2", at the Summer of Sony 6 Edition photo call in Cancun, Mexico.
(AP) selena-gomez-channels-angelina-jolie

Sandra Bullock's steely look We dare Sandra Bullock to look less fabulous.
The actress gave photographers a steely look upon arriving at the World premiere of the film "Minions" in London.
(AP) sandra-bullock's-steely-look

Lindsey Vonn goes 'Jurassic' Take that Tiger!
Woods' ex Lindsey Vonn put her best legs forward at the "Jurassic World" premiere in Hollywood, Calif.
The award-winning alpine ski racer showed off her toned figure in a reptilian-inspired dress that was appropriate for the occasion.
(Getty) lindsey-vonn-goes-'jurassic'

Miranda Lambert a proud 'tomato' Miranda Lambert is proud of being a "tomato."
The star donned the red shirt in support of female country singers after radio consultant Keith Hill said they don't belong on country radio.
He said male singers are the "lettuce" in a salad, while female singers are just the "tomatoes."
Lambert quickly fought back on Twitter saying, "I am gonna do everything in my power to support and promote female singer/songwriters in country music.
Always."
Her new shirt is the latest way she's showing her support.
(Instagram) miranda-lambert-a-proud-'tomato'

Mayim Bialik loves animals Mayim Bialik wants you to know how much she loves cats and why you should too.
"The Big Bang Theory" actress showed her love for the cuddly critters as she posed with two kittens from spcaLA.
Bialik said she hopes to shed a positive light on cats which she says some times have a bad rep as pets according to a new study from PetSmart Charities.
(Doug Davis/Invision for PetSmart Charities/AP) mayim-bialik-loves-animals

Nicky and Paris Hilton Paris Hilton joined her younger sister Nicky for a celebration worthy of the hotel heiress siblings.
The girls celebrated Nicky's upcoming wedding at the 1 Hotel Southbeach where Paris donned a pink lace number and cat ears to DJ her sister's party at the W Hotel's Wall.
Nicky and her bridesmaids enjoyed Belvedere Vodka cocktails and champagne at the Miami-based bash while Paris spun top EDM hits.
(World Red Eye) nicky-and-paris-hilton

Jessica looking worse for wear After watching Evan Ross perform at Sayers Club in Los Angeles, Jessica Simpson needed a helping hand from husband Eric Johnson as they made their way to the car.
For more pics of Jessica's tipsy night out go to X17Online.com.
(X17) jessica-looking-worse-for-wear

Emmanuelle Chriqui Emmanuelle Chriqui looked chic in a long yellow gown as she arrived at the Critics' Choice Television Awards at the Beverly Hilton hotel.
The actress is reprising her role as Sloan McQuewick in the "Entourage" film.
(AP) emmanuelle-chriqui

Molly Sims' ladies night Molly Sims left her kids at home for a night out with the ladies.
Celebrating her publicist Lauren Kucerak's bachelorette party, Sims enjoyed a private dinner under the stars at 1 Hotel South Beach in Miami.
(World Red Eye) molly-sims'-ladies-night

Rumer Willis' bikini body Hard work pays off.
Rumer Willis showed off her post-"Dancing With the Stars" body in an aerie bikini in Los Angeles this weekend.
The star spent her Memorial Day showing off her toned physique and tossing around a football with friends.
(Michael Simon, StarTraks Photo) rumer-willis'-bikini-body

Kaley dyes her eyebrows Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting shocked fans with her pink hair, and the actress took her look to the next level when she debuted wacky pink eyebrows over Memorial Day weekend.
(Instagram ) kaley-dyes-her-eyebrows

Natalie Portman causes a stir Natalie Portman caused a stir in Cannes.
The actress' cheeky dress raised eyebrows when Portman turned around to reveal her black underwear underneath the sheer "Black Swan"-inspired dress.
(AP/Reuters) natalie-portman-causes-a-stir

Hannah Davis is summer ready The Sports Illustrated cover girl is ready for the summer.
The new face of OP's summer line, showed off her bikini body in one of the collections' two-pieces.
Oddly enough for someone so celebrated for cavorting in a bikini, Davis says that actually she prefers one-piece suits.
(OP) hannah-davis-is-summer-ready

Kelly Bensimon steps out Kelly Bensimon stepped out looking exhausted in NYC's Soho neighborhood.
The reality star had bags under her eyes with her brunette locks loose and natural.
Click here for more pictures of Bensimon on X17online.com.
(X17) kelly-bensimon-steps-out

Cindy Crawford and Kaia Gerber Cindy Crawford walked the red carpet at the premiere of "Tomorrowland" with her mini-me daughter by her side.
Can you believe Kaia is only 13?
(Getty) cindy-crawford-and-kaia-gerber

Danica McKellar dared to bare Danica McKellar dared to bare in a strange outfit at the LA Premiere of "Where Hope Grows" held at Arclight Cinemas Hollywood.
The actress' grey outfit, while flattering, failed to impress especially coupled with a black hat.
McKellar should seek a new stylist pronto!
(AP) danica-mckellar-dared-to-bare

Eric Decker plants one on Jessie Eric Decker plants one on his very pregnant wife Jessie James Decker.
The couple, who recently announced they are having a boy, couldn't seem to keep their hands off of each other at the iHeartRadio Country Festival this weekend.
(Getty on behalf of iHeartMedia) eric-decker-plants-one-on-jessie

Vanessa Milano, Nick Lachey and Sarah Hyland The stars put on their Kentucky Derby best this weekend.
Sarah Hyland, of "Modern Family," and Vanessa Milano along with her husband Nick Lachey looked Southern chic in their formal spring attire while signing a three-liter bottle of G.H.MUMM, the official champagne of the Derby, for charity.
(G.H.MUMM) vanessa-milano,-nick-lachey-and-sarah-hyland

Kate and Oliver Hudson Too close for comfort?
Kate Hudson and her brother Oliver shared a smooch on the lips after enjoying lunch together.
The siblings are close, but the awkward kiss couldn't help but give us the creeps.
Click here for more pictures of the smooching siblings on X17online.com.
(X17) kate-and-oliver-hudson

Salma Hayek stuns Salma Hayek looked sultry in silver at the screening of "The Prophet" in Beirut.
The actress turned director showed off her curves in the glamorous gown as she celebrated the film that was inspired by the book that helped Hayek to explore her relationship with her late Lebanese grandfather.
(Reuters) salma-hayek-stuns

Kaley Cuoco changes it up Kaley Cuoco changed up her hairdo yet again.
"The Big Bang Theory" actress showed off her new hair color on Instagram.
"Have wanted to do this for years!
Finally went pretty in pink!"
she wrote.
Click here to see what all the stars are up to on Instagram.
(Instagram) kaley-cuoco-changes-it-up

Kate Hudson Birthday Kate Hudson rang in her 36th birthday looking like one hot mess.
The mom-of-two threw a "hot mess"-themed party to celebrate with her friends and she definitely dressed the part.
Jewelry designer and wife of actor Toby McGuire, Jennifer Meyer, also joined in on the fun as she celebrated her 38th.
(Instagram) kate-hudson-birthday

Cindy Crawford's date night Cindy Crawford donned a sexy black dress for date night with her equally handsome hubby Rande Garber.
The two spent their evening dining with Jim Belushi at Craig's Restaurant in West Hollywood.
Click here for more pictures of the couple on X17online.com.
(X17) cindy-crawford's-date-night

Melissa Joan Hart's family time Melissa Joan Hart rang in her 39th birthday with her family by her side.
The actress, her husband and their three kids enjoyed the Caribbean sun at Generations Riviera Maya by Karisma.
The family-orientated former child star couldn't think of a better way to celebrate.
melissa-joan-hart's-family-time

Jennifer Aniston and Courteney Cox Reunited and it feels so good!
Former "Friends" costars Jennifer Aniston and Courteney Cox goofed around at a screening of the film "Just Before I Go" in Los Angeles.
Click here for more pictures of the star on HollywoodLife.com.
(Getty) jennifer-aniston-and-courteney-cox

Sadie's green look Sadie Robertson walked the camouflage carpet at the premiere of the "Duck Commander Musical" in Las Vegas.
The "Dancing With the Stars" runner up looked stunning in an elegant teal dress.
(Getty) sadie's-green-look

Crystal Hefner Hugh Hefner's wife Crystal showed off her DJing skills at Coachella while guests enjoyed Caffeinated Club at the Influential House in Rancho Mirage, CA this weekend.
The 28-year-old couldn't help but add some Playboy flare to her headphones.
(The Influential House) crystal-hefner

Rebel's raunchy style Rebel Wilson shows off her racy outfit at the MTV Movie Awards at the Nokia Theatre on Sunday, April 12, 2015, in Los Angeles.
(AP) rebel's-raunchy-style-

Jennie Garth and Dave Abrams Jennie Garth is off the market!
The 43-year-old actress celebrated her birthday at the Dreams Tulum Resort & Spa in Mexico with her love Dave Abrams.
The couples' reps confirmed their engagement to People Thursday.
Click here for more pictures of the happy couple on vacation on X17online.com.
(X17) jennie-garth-and-dave-abrams

Kate Hudson's spring look Kate Hudson is ready for spring!
The mom-of-two was spotted looking flawless in a low-cut floral dress picking up fresh juice.
Click here for more pictures of Hudson from X17online.com.
(X17online.com) kate-hudson's-spring-look

Ireland Baldwin in hospital Alec Baldwin's daughter tweeted the hospital picture above on April 3 and wrote "appendicitis swag thanks for all of your concern."
(Twitter ) ireland-baldwin-in-hospital

Deborah Ann Woll The "True Blood" actress has ditched her red locks for a lighter look.
Woll showed off her new blond do at the premiere of the Netflix original series "Marvel's Daredevil" in Los Angeles.
Tell us which look you prefer on Twitter @FOX411.
(AP/Reuters) deborah-ann-woll

Katy Perry and her pup Katy Perry showed off her pup Butters at the premiere screening of "Katy Perry: The Prismatic World Tour" in Los Angeles.
(Reuters) katy-perry-and-her-pup

Joanna Krupa's little white dress Krupa, of "Real Housewives of Miami" fame is ready for summer in a little white dress.
The 35-year-old enjoyed dinner in West Hollywood while showing off her new shorter hairdo.
Click here for more photos of the Polish beauty from X17online.com.
(X17) joanna-krupa's-little-white-dress

Christina Hendricks goes blonde Christina Hendricks shocked fans when she ditched her famous red locks for a blonde due in her new Clairol ad.
The actress, who plays Joan Holloway on "Mad Men," has been a redhead for 20 years but it looks like she was ready for a change.
(Reuters/Instagram/Clairol) christina-hendricks-goes-blonde

Chrissy Teigen looks smoking Justin Bieber might have been the one getting roasted, but it was Chrissy Teigen that looked smoking at the Comedy Central event.
She posed in a sultry, black dress at the Sony Studios in Culver City, California.
(Reuters) chrissy-teigen-looks-smoking

Taylor Swift's cat scratch Ouch!
Taylor Swift's cat Meredith gave the singer a nasty scratch on her leg.
The "Blank Space" singer poked fun at reports that she had her legs insured for $40 million dollars by saying, "Great work Meredith.
I was just trying to love you and now you owe me 40 million dollars."
Photos: Stars and their adorable pets (Instagram) taylor-swift's-cat-scratch

Sean Penn and Charlize Theron pose Charlize Theron and Sean Penn looked like a happy couple at the premiere of his new movie "The Gunman."
The couple of one year have gotten serious very quickly with reports that Penn plans to adopt Theron's son, Jackson.
The actor recently said he could see himself marrying the South African native.
(Reuters) sean-penn-and-charlize-theron-pose

Lindsay Lohan Photoshopped?
Lindsay Lohan went a little overboard with Photoshop in a new Instagram pic.
The actress wrote, "My feet look red lol- had to take that out.
Only real red is my hair."
Perhaps she was trying to distract from her obvious Photoshop fail?The area behind her behind appears to be totally warped and her fans called her out for the editing.
"Biggest Photoshop fail of all time," one user commented.
(Instagram) lindsay-lohan-photoshopped?
Matthew Lewis Neville Longbottom is all grown up!
A new picture of British actor Matthew Lewis, who got his start as the nerdy and adorable "Harry Potter" character, is setting the Internet on fire.
His "Harry Potter" costar Emma Watson shared the pic of Lewis as a hunky solider in BBC Three's "Bluestone 42."
Matt's definitely left his awkward stage behind.
(Reuters/BBC Three) matthew-lewis

Jared Leto's new look Is that you Jared Leto?
The musician and actor made a drastic change to his look.
Leto channeled his inner Draco Malfoy by chopping off his long locks and dying them platinum blonde.
(Instagram/Twitter/Reuters) jared-leto's-new-look

Michael Richards, Jason Alexander and Jerry Seinfeld It's a (mini) "Seinfeld" reunion!
While they were short one Julia Louis-Dreyfus, "Seinfeld" stars (from left) Michael Richards, Jason Alexander and Jerry Seinfeld were reunited for a good cause.
The actors met up Wednesday for a charity event to benefit Baby Buggy.
It's great to see the crew back together again after 17 years.
(Getty) michael-richards,-jason-alexander-and-jerry-seinfeld

Jessie James Decker's pregnant Jessie James Decker announced over Instagram that she's got another bun in her oven!
The country singer gave birth just under a year ago to her first child, Vivianne, with husband Eric Decker.
"Vivianne is so excited because she is going to be a big sister!
We are over the moon about having another baby!!!"
she wrote.
(Instagram) jessie-james-decker's-pregnant

Miranda Lambert, Gwen Sebastian and RaeLynn Miranda Lambert and her tour mates got matching tattoos in Tulsa over the weekend.
The country queen (l), her backup vocalist Gwen Sebastian (c) and opening act RaeLynn (r) debuted their new ink on Instagram.
"Inked in perfect harmony," Lambert wrote with a picture of their new musical note tattoos.
PICS: Seeing Double?
Stars Who Have the Same Tattoos (Instagram) miranda-lambert,-gwen-sebastian-and-raelynn

Chrissy Teigen darker locks Chrissy Teigen debuted a new look on Instagram.
The model traded in her lighter locks for a dark brown.
She snapped a pic of her new do and coupled with her intense eyeliner, it made for a scary snap.
MORE: Chrissy's shocking Oscars confession (Instagram) chrissy-teigen-darker-locks
While promoting the return of NBCs Will & Grace, co-creators David Kohan and Mac Mutchnick were met with some political questions  and they were quick to respond.
On Saturday at the Tribeca TV panel, Jess Cagle, editorial director for People and Entertainment Weekly, asked Kohan and Mutchnick how they would react if President Trump called them a son of a bitch, referencing President Trumps recent remarks about NFL players.
BRIAN AUSTIN GREEN ON BEING MARRIED TO MEGAN FOX: 'IT'S HARD'



Kohan responded by saying, I guess I would rather be a son of a bitch than the son of someone who was arrested at a KKK rally.
What he said, co-creator Max Mutchnick added.
Im not going to beat that.
The alleged 1927 arrest of Trumps father, Fred, happened after an altercation took place between Ku Klux Klan members and New York City police officers during a Memorial Day Parade.
There is little known about the incident, with one local paper saying Trumps father was dismissed on a charge of refusing to disperse, from the scene.
Trump has denied that his father was arrested.
The crowd laughed at Kohans remark and the conversation quickly returned to discussing the revival of Will & Grace, which returns to television this week after being off the air for 11 years.
Jan Triska, an actor who moved to the U.S. after being banned by the Czechoslovak Communist regime, has died, more than a day after he fell from Prague's iconic Charles Bridge.
He was 80.
Prague theater director Jan Hrusinsky confirmed the death Monday.
Triska died in Prague's military hospital overnight due to injuries from Saturday's fall, the circumstances of which are unclear.
Triska emigrated in 1977 after signing a human rights manifesto inspired by his close friend, dissident playwright Vaclav Havel.
He settled in Los Angeles and appeared in dozens of movies, including "Ragtime" and "The People vs. Larry Flynt" by his fellow Czech Milos Forman.
After the anti-Communist 1989 Velvet Revolution led by Havel, Triska regularly returned home to play in movies and theaters, including a leading role in "The Elementary School," nominated for an Academy Award.
Warmth worked all the way until the very end.
When Don Rickles passed away in April at age 90, he was filming a web series where he gave no-nonsense life advice to some of Hollywoods biggest stars.
AARP Studios is releasing Rickles last project, Dinner with Don Monday for fans looking to laugh with comedys most infamous equal opportunity offender.
The show was announced in March, just weeks before Rickles death.
Rickles longtime manager Tony Oppedisano told Fox News Rickles was long thinking about creating something special for fans.
We were initially thinking about an animated series based on a character he created, an expert who appeared to know everything, but actually knew nothing, said Oppedisano.
However, it took one phone call to inspire a completely different idea.
The phone rang one time and it was Johnny Depp calling Don from Japan for his advice on something, said Oppedisano.
He had an eclectic group of friends Don became a bit of a psychologist in addition to being a close friend.
People would call him for advice on anything.
The idea behind Dinner with Don was a no-brainer for the legendary comedian.
At age 90, he still went out on the town three nights a week and visited his favorite restaurants throughout Beverly Hills or Malibu, where he would often chat with servers for at least 15 minutes.
A post shared by  (@grvdgingly) on Sep 9, 2017 at 3:05pm PDT

For the series, Rickles would arrive at some of those beloved haunts and sit down with a celebrity eager to meet him over a meal.
The first time I met Don was while we were filming at The Palm, said Jeffrey Eagle, Vice President of AARP Studios.
Judd Apatow and Marisa Tomei were there.
We were in the midst of shooting and he said I can do this all day.
When Don would sit there and the lights would go on, this energy would come alive.
He was a constant showman.
Don would tease, tell stories You had these super famous people sitting at a table with him, 30-40 crew members, cameras and lights.
But these stars were in awe.
And despite his age, Rickles was as sharp as ever, even behind cameras.
He loved walking through the kitchen [instead of the front door] and harassing the help, recalled Oppedisano.
And they loved it as much or more than he did.
Oppedisano claimed his phone wouldnt stop ringing from stars who wanted their chance to dine with Rickles.
The list was narrowed down for 13 episodes.
It includes recognizable names, like Robert De Niro, Martin Scorsese and Amy Poehler, among others.
They all wanted to know the secret behind his lasting success.
A post shared by MR CHOW (@mrchow) on Aug 30, 2017 at 2:18pm PDT

Don would only say things that only he could get away with, he explained.
No matter what he said, he was an equal opportunity abuser He picked on every ethnicity, every group you can think of.
But he was never, ever mean spirited.
And the audience got that.
"The purpose of what he did in his mind was that we as a nation, somewhere along the line, began to lose our ability to laugh with one another.
And it turned into laughing at one another, which in Dons mind was absolutely wrong He would treat everyone the same, whether it was Ryan Gosling, who adored him, or the waiter serving pigs in a blanket.
But not everyone participating in the series only wanted words of wisdom.
Vince Vaughn, a Las Vegas history buff, was eager to learn about Rickles relationship with the Rat Pack.
When Frank Sinatra went to see Rickles perform in 1957, the comedian told the crooner in front of a packed audience, Frank, be yourself!
Stand up and hit somebody.
Sinatra laughed so hard, he fell to the floor.
They quickly shared close friendship that endured until Sinatra's death in 1998 at age 82.
Rickles was unable to join the Rat Pack due to scheduling conflicts, as well as his unique style in commanding a stage.
Rickles was, to an extent, a bit too strong to be part of an ensemble like that, said Oppedisano, who also worked with Sinatra.
[Member] Joey Bishop knew when to stand back and let Frank lead.
Thats why Frank was known as The Leader.
Don didnt want to infringe on that without meaning to.
Still, Rickles would later join the Rat Pack in a different way.
When they would get together in the steam room at the Sands, they all had individual robes with nicknames on them, said Oppedisano.
Frank was The Leader.
Dean [Martin] was Drunky.
Sam [Davis Jr.] was Smoky because he was a two-fisted smoker.
They had a robe made for Don  The Rhino.
Rickles earned that nickname from Sinatra for his appearance, along with "Bullethead."
When it was Paul Rudds turn to meet Rickles, he became tongue-tied.
Don found out he was very nervous, said Oppedisano.
Don was purposely holding back, being reserved and quiet.
The longer he did that, the more nervous Paul got.
Which at some point caused Paul to say, Maybe Ill just start insulting myself.
According to Eagle, if it wasnt for Rickles death, they would have continued filming new episodes.
We would have kept it going if it werent for Dons passing, he insisted.
Still, Eagle believes Dinner with Don will celebrate his legacy, as well as share the one message that embodied his career.
Don would always say, Be yourself, dont change for anybody, be good to people, have fun with people, be kind and loving to them.
And those things will see you through, said Eagle.
He was always true to his message.
Do what makes you happy, but be unique.
Quentin Tarantino celebrated his engagement to Israeli singer Daniella Pick at a star-studded event hosted by Harvey Weinstein.
The director, 54, proudly showed off his much younger fiancee, 33, at the New York party on Saturday.
A post shared by DANIELLA PICK (@daniellapick) on Jul 27, 2017 at 8:29am PDT

Pick, a model and singer from Israel, is 21 years younger than Tarantino.
According to the New York Post, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Diane Kruger, Samuel L. Jackson and other stars turned out to celebrate the newly-engaged duo.
A post shared by DANIELLA PICK (@daniellapick) on Jul 16, 2017 at 11:41pm PDT

Tarantino first met Pick while promoting his 2009 film "Inglourious Basterds" in Israel.
They reconnected last year and Tarantino popped the question in July.
"When you make a movie like 'Inglourious Basterds,' not only did you get an Oscar but you got Daniella," Weinstein said while toasting the couple, the Post reports.
Horse racing ( tagyuk) is one of the most popular sports in Tibet, held during festivals and Lunar New Year celebrations.
Its a component of the annual Dzongsar Summer Festival, where 21 villages gather together for three days, representing their three overarching townships.
The number three is auspicious in Tibetan culture, connecting the sun, moon, and star; the sky, earth, and underground; and the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
Each day the festival starts with prayers by the monks of Dzongsar Monastery, followed by horse races and horseback target shooting.
According to the elders, kings in ancient Tibet invented and promoted the sport of shooting at targets by horseback to save money on military training, which could instead be used to support education in monasteries and other needs.
As a result, young males became very well-trained snipers and riders, at no cost to the Tibetan kings.
When the kings needed an army to defend their territories, they could pick any man at any time and expect a high level of expertise.
Although shooting at a target from the back of a racing horse has been practiced for centuries in Tibet, a new method is evolving.
Now cars are used, which many see as a threat to Dzongsars cultural heritage.
Dawa Drolma is a Tibetan photographer, filmmaker, and entrepreneur passionate about documenting and sustaining Tibetan culture and traditions.
Since 2016, she has worked with the Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage on Lag Zo, a Smithsonian Artisan Initiative project to support Tibetan artisans in China, by conducting fieldwork and producing of short films featuring Tibetan craft traditions.
A version of this article originally appeared on the Festival Blog, produced by the Smithsonian's Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
I underestimated you were the first words former Wimbledon winner Bobby Riggs said to the tennis champion Billie Jean King in 1973 after she defeated him in front of 90 million viewers worldwide.
Its a serious mistake for any athlete to underestimate their opponent in any match in any sport, let alone when shes the number one ranked female player and youre playing in your own drummed-up spectacle of a match, the Battle of the Sexes.
In the context of the fierce debate surrounding gender rolesthen and nowhis words serve as a reminder to never underestimated a determined woman.
Related Content How Billie Jean King Picked Her Outfit for the Battle of the Sexes Match

The new film from Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris, the directing duo who made the award-winning Little Miss Sunshine, is a biopic of the legendary star King (played by Emma Stone), which centers on her famous match against former Wimbledon triple-crown winner, Riggs (Steve Carell).
Smithsonian.com invited Smithsonian sports curator Eric Jentsch, deputy chair of the National Museum of American Historys division of culture and arts, to preview the film Battle of the Sexes and discuss Kings enduring legacy.
While tennis champion Billie Jean King is best known for beating Riggs, her accomplishments are substantial, from winning 39 Grand Slam titles to being ranked number one in womens tennis six times.
Among numerous honors, she was the first female athlete awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, which she received from President Obama in 2009.
Beyond her personal achievements, it seems hard to overstate how much King changed the sport itself, from elevating tennis as a profession to advocating for gender equality in pay and recognition.
As Jentsch explains, even before the Riggs match, one of her major initiatives was to make professional tennis a legitimate enterprise, and have the U.S. Open, Wimbledon and the French Open, actually be professional events.
Previously, these competitions were operating on a basis of shamateurism: players were labeled as amateurs without financial incentives when most of them were professionals being paid under the table.
Pushing against this pretense brought about the Open era of tennis, where the professionals could participate and competitions introduced tournament purses to pay them.
The year 1968 marked the first time Wimbledon winners were awarded prize money, but it didnt even dawn on me that [women] would get less, said King.
Yet, as the womens singles winner, she received 750, while her male counterpart, Rod Laver, was paid 2,000.
Determined to get to equal pay, King found herself without the support from the male-led United States Lawn Tennis Association (now United States Tennis Association).
It was clear that female players would have to fight for equality on their own.
So they did.
As Jentsch explains, in a defiant attempt for the players to take some ownership and fight back against the lack of equity that was in the traditional tennis establishment, King created a breakaway circuit of major female tennis players.
The original nine signed a symbolic $1 contract with publisher of World Tennis Magazine, Gladys Heldman (played by Sarah Silverman).
They started organizing tournaments, sponsored by the Virginia Slims tobacco company, which famously marketed to young women of the era with the tagline Youve come a long way, baby.
On the circuit, the female players battled the idea that womens tennis wasnt popular and that couldnt bring in sales and audiences.
While the timeline of the founding is collapsed in the film, the tour served as a precursor to the founding of Womens Tennis Association in 1973, the first year that Wimbledon offered equal pay to both sexes.
It would however take decades, until 2007, to get all four majors to award equal prize money to male and female athletes.
Alongside the fight against pay disparity, King was combatting stereotypes that female tennis players were not as skilled as their male counterparts, an idea trumpeted by the gleefully chauvinistic Riggs.
A former Wimbledon champ with a gambling problem, he had been playing stunt matches for years, trying to get back in the limelight and, with his proposed "Battle of the Sexes" match, he ingeniously capitalized on contemporary debates about gender equality.
Onscreen, the sexist Riggs seems to exaggerate his beliefs, but its made clear that they are shared by many men, including those who ran the Tennis Association.
In real life, as depicted in the film, male tennis promoters and executives held incredible power over the fate of womens tennis and used those same outdated beliefs to denigrate King and her peers.
Initially, King didnt want to participate in the Battle, but after top-ranked player Margaret Court (played by Jessica McNamee) lost to Riggs in the Mothers Day Massacre, King felt it was necessary.
Not only had the loss given fuel to Riggs sexist insults, she was worried about what effect the diminishment of womens tennis might have on Title IX.
The legislation, passed only a year earlier and still the subject of debate, was essential to women athletes receiving scholarships and equal opportunities.
Billie Jean King is a very far thinking person who sees the big picture, explains Jentsch.
She wasn't alone in seeing Title IXs importance, but she really understood it would mean a lot for female athletes in the future.
Explaining her reasoning behind accepting Riggs challenge, she later said, I thought it would set us back 50 years if I didnt win that match.
It would ruin the womens [tennis] tour and affect all womens self-esteem.
To beat a 55-year-old guy was no thrill for me.
The thrill was exposing a lot of new people to tennis.
The film recreates the outrageous spectacle of the match, which is among the most widely watched sports events in history.
Jentsch says King used the medium to get her message across.
Obviously Billie Jean King understood that live television was a way that really impacted people, he explains.
Getting a mass audience to all watch the same thing at once, it would be a powerful forum for the symbolism of the match.
Meanwhile, behind her very public advocacy for women in tennis, King was also coming to terms with her sexuality.
While shed been in a heterosexual marriage since the 1960s, she came to realize she was a lesbian and began an affair with a woman.
In 1981, King was outed by that then former lover in a lawsuit and over the course of 24 hours, she lost all her endorsements.
While the film covers Kings initial self-discovery, it doesnt have time to go into the nuances of her romantic relationships and the storyline ends before the betrayal of her outing.
This painful public event labeled King the first lesbian professional athlete.
While she was somewhat forced into this position, its still one shes championed by advocating for LGBTQ rights and paving the way for other athletes.
Even still, there remains a stigma: in 2013, when basketball player Jason Collins came out, he became the first male player in the four professional sports (baseball, basketball, hockey and football) to do so.
A trailblazer for tennis, women and the LGBTQ community, each chapter of King's life is an epic story in its own right, worthy of retelling and cinematic treatment.
Over its two hours, the film places the Battle front and center, and volleys between the opponents personal lives in the buildup to the match.
Kings fight for better pay and her evolving sexuality are given equal time with the effect Riggs' gambling issues had on his marriage and his hope that the match becomes a way to regain his past glories and, he assumed, a large payday.
While he enjoyed the film, Jentsch feels its overall light touch was sometimes a disservice to the risks King was taking.
And by focusing on the personal relationships, the film didnt fully develop the historical context and conflicts of the era that dominated the fractured country.
For the purpose of storytelling, they reduce some of the most authentic and complex motivations, he says.
I feel the true story is much more fascinating and her heroism is much more real, based on the circumstances in which she stepped up.
Female athletes and women in general have certainly come a long way from the egregious discrimination that dominated the 1960s and 70s.
But in the past few years as blatant sexism again rears its unfortunate head, in tennis and beyond, its clear theres still quite a way to go.
The tennis dress that Billie Jean King wore for the Battle of the Sexes is among the collections of the National Museum of American History.
It is currently not on view.
A few years ago, some 21st-century digital housekeeping helped Karen Daly solve one of the 20th-century mysteries behind a 17th-century painting.
Daly, the registrar for exhibitions and coordinator of provenance research at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, was going through data files as the VMFA was getting ready to launch a new website, which would include a new system for managing museum records and databases.
She had been reviewing documents for items in the museums permanent collection and was intrigued by what she found for Battle on a Bridge, completed by Claude Lorrain (born Claude Gele) in 1655.
The painting depicts an idyllic scene of a shepherd, his family and flock on the move, with soldiers fighting and falling from a bridge close by and what look like war ships in the background harbor.
The VMFA purchased Battle on a Bridge in 1960 knowing a little bit about its past: The paperwork showed that the painting had been seized by Nazis during World War II, then returned to France after the war.
The names and places in the documents led to as many questions as they answered: How did the painting end up in enemy hands?
How far did it travel before it went home?
And before the war, where did it come from?
Only in the last five years or so have shared online resources become available to help art researchers find the missing pieces of the provenance puzzle.
To make it easier for those in the U.S. and in Germany to trace the history of these artworks together, the Smithsonian Provenance Research Initiative and Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation created the German/American Provenance Research Exchange Program for Museum Professionals (PREP).
Curators, historians, collections managers, legal experts and technologists will meet September 24 to 29 in Berlin for a series of discussions and on-site workshops in Berlin's museums, archives and galleries.
Daly participated in the first PREP meeting, in New York in February, and will attend the Berlin gathering.
Ever since she found a clue to Battle on a Bridge on a German website, shes been eager to share what shes learned about the paintings past.
That cluea numberled her to a man in Nazi Germanys exclusive and shadowy cultural circles.
Karl Haberstock was involved in taking the painting, says Daly.
He was Hitlers art dealer.
Haberstock was responsible for determining which plundered artworks he could sell to help finance the government.
These included approximately 16,000 objects of degenerate art removed from German museums between 1933 and 1938, art confiscated in newly annexed Austria and Poland and art from Aryanized firms.
Starting in 1938, the Nazis strong-armed Jewish property and business owners into selling their assets, including artworks and art galleries, to non-Jews, under the Aryanization policy.
Some Jewish collectors sold their holdings to fund their escape from Germany.
Dealers with questionable scruples, like Haberstock, stepped into the art marketplace to take advantage of fleeing families and Nazi allies who remained.
With a network of German agents and French collaborators, Haberstock looted art from France, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland and Italy.
He acquired Battle on a Bridge from the Wildenstein & Cie gallery in Paris in June 1941.
The VMFA knew the painting had been restituted to the Wildenstein family sometime after the war, so Daly hoped that the number she saw on that German website might help fill in the paintings timeline.
This is a painting thats often in our galleries, so I had to take it off-view to see if the number appeared on the back of the painting.
Daly found what she was looking for: Linz Label No.
That number signified that this painting was part of the inventory that the Nazis kept of the items for the museumthe Linz collection of art for the Fhrermuseum, Hitlers monument to the Aryan race.
Planned for his childhood hometown of Linz, Austria, Hitler envisioned a cultural district that would help Linz grow to culturally rival Vienna.
The Fhrermuseum would sit at heart of the district, filled with artwork celebrating such German virtues as industry and self-sacrifice.
After Haberstock added Battle on a Bridge to the growing Linz collection, the paintings trail went cold for four years.
Where, exactly, did it go?
During the wars final months in Europe, a baron and fellow Nazi-connected art dealer invited Haberstock to hide out at his castle in the northern Bavarian village of Aschbach.
Several months later, in spring 1945, Allied troops found Haberstock, another colleague and their respective art collections at the castle.
Haberstock was taken into custody, and the works he had with him were impounded.
Meanwhile, the Nazis had hidden the bulk of the Linz collection, including Battle on a Bridge, in a salt mine at Altaussee, in the Austrian Alps.
The Allies Monuments Men (and women) moved thousands of works from the mine to a collection point in Munich, and Battle on a Bridge was restituted to France in 1946.
We have documentation that it was recovered by the Allies before the VMFA purchased it, Daly says, but did it ever go to Berlin?
Its exciting to confirm some of the locations on the map, if you will, of where we know it went.
(Since the Fhrermuseum was never built, the painting likely spent little, if any, time in Linz.)
Researching the provenance of this or any other painting would be impossible without collaboration between specialists in the U.S. and Germany.
That might mean sharing searchable databases or updates to laws covering the import and export of cultural property.
Other times, experts on both sides of the Atlantic are literally opening their doors and archives to visiting researchers.
In Germany, academic and popular interest in World War II provenance research has exploded in the last ten years, says Petra Winter, head of provenance research and director of the Central Archives of the National Museums in Berlin.
Yet in contrast to Dalys full-time role at the VMFA, German museums cant always find the specialists they need to do that work for the long-term.
We dont have enough permanent staff or provenance researchers at museums, so we hire part-time staff to work on short-term projects, Winter says.
We have art historians who are a bit nomadic, going from one museum to another.
For the museums, its not so good for them to have researchers move on and take their knowledge with them.
Even for the most deeply staffed American museums, it will become increasingly challenging to hang on to institutional knowledge: Of the directors at 150 art museums in the U.S., more than one-third are over the age of 60 and approaching retirement.
To help museums keep their Nazi-era provenance research consistent across staffing and administrative changes, PREP focuses on mentoring the next generation of museum professionals.
PREP is exploring new software and improved technologiescurrently, linked open-data is the leading candidateto facilitate the sharing of provenance resources and results among researchers, institutions and the public.
The group also plans to publish an online guide to German and American World War II-era provenance resources to improve the speed and accuracy of the research.
These plans will enhance museum stewardship and help with educating the public, says Jane Milosch, director of the Smithsonian Provenance Research Initiative.
Objects in public collections are digitized and available to researchers.
On the other hand, objects which were potentially looted and currently in private collections are not bound by requirements regarding the transparency that professional museum organizations have developed.
These works often disappear from public view and are not accessible to researchers.
Bringing to light the often-fascinating stories that provenance research reveals can enhance the exhibition of these artworks, says Andrea Hull, program associate for the Smithsonian Provenance Research Initiative.
Reviewing museum catalogs and other documents online, versus traveling to an archive to see the art and paperwork in person, allows researchers in Germany and the U.S. to make connections more broadly, quickly and affordably.
Online public archives also can let a provenance researcher know when they need to pass the baton and step away from the documents, digital and otherwise.
Theres so many points of information that can take you on a wild goose chase or down a rabbit hole, Daly says.
Like the attribution of a painting or object over time: The title changes multiple times.
The artwork physically changes, like its painted over or cut down.
You have to know when to pull back, and its so key to record that information and share it so someone can come along and pick up on that point where I was.
[Unraveling] those kinds of things can take a while.
In 2018 and 2019 two more PREP cohorts will convene for two semi-annual gatherings in the U.S. and Germany.
Partner organizations hosting the exchanges include the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles, the Dresden State Museums and the Central Institute for Art History in Munich.
Visitors to the Smithsonians National Museum of African American History and Culture are often overwhelmed by its heart-wrenching exhibitions.
The museum explores everything from the horrors of segregation to triumphs in music, the arts and the ongoing battle for civil rights.
It can be a lot to takeespecially the Slavery and Freedom exhibition that begins in the bowels of the museum, three stories below ground.
I was really angry with what I saw downstairs, says Shelley Lee Hing.
Shes from Jamaica, but now lives in Arlington, Virginia, and was on her second visit.
I know about it.
But when you see it, it comes back to the forefront of your thoughts.
But Lee Hing says visitors shouldnt want to deny the things that they see here.
You want people to understand the struggles that African Americans went through, and the fact that this country was built on their backs literally, Lee Hing says.
Both she and her sister, Nadine Carey, were focused on the positive as the museum celebrates its first birthday.
On September 24, 2016, massive crowds filled the National Mall as President Barack Obama, the nations first black president, officially dedicated the new museum with the ringing of a bell to signal the official opening, after nearly a century of fitful planning.
This is a good way to remember, and to kind of keep your eyes on the prize, Carey explains.
You have to think of the future of our kids.
You know what you dont want them to go through, so this is a way to educate them.
This is how we were.
We dont want them to turn back the clock.
We want to keep going forward.
The two were standing in a very special place within the museum, called the Contemplative Court.
Its a gorgeous room, with carmel-bronze walls of Bendheim glass.
They have a core of luminous mesh, striking a balance somewhere between opacity and translucency, and look as if a subtle light shines within them.
Lee Hing and Carey call it a great place to decompress.
A cylindrical fountain rains into a pool in the center of the room, coming from a skylight above.
The water creates a sound that conveys something in the midst between a feeling of white noise, and calming relaxation.
Some visitors come here and sing.
Others sit quietly, staring into the constantly shifting liquid pool.
It is a space for deep thoughts and meditation.
The scene down thereis pretty strong stuff.
Slavery, and then it goes up and you can see the difference in the years and the changes that happen, says Anna Pijffers, visiting from the Netherlands.
I think also when youve seen the whole museum; you can come here, and think about what you saw.
This is a good thing.
She finds the room to be both quiet and noisy, because of what she calls the waterfalls, but she is impressed and inspired by the quotes that adorn walls that look like they could warm you like a fire.
I cherish my own freedom dearly, but I care even more for your freedom, reads a 1991 quote from former South African president and anti-apartheid revolutionary Nelson Mandela.
On another wall: We are determined.
to work and fight until justice rains down like water and righteousness like a mighty stream, from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., circa 1958.
From African American abolitionist, poet and suffragist Frances Ellen Watkins Harper, who died in 1911: I ask no monument, proud and high to arrest the gaze of the passers-by; all that my yearning spirit craves is bury me not in a land of slaves.
Finally, and simply, from Sam Cookes iconic song: A change is gonna come.
This place was specifically designed after a lot of conversation, and understanding that we were taking people on a very important journey, explains Esther Washington, the museum's director of education.
Most of our visitors, by the time they come to the Contemplative Court, will have visited the history gallery and that is a very emotional place.
Washington says if one has been through all of the history exhibitions, including segregation, people have walked more than a mile.
Theyve also journeyed through difficult subjects and stories, and then through the tumultuous changes that have and continue to shake the foundations of our nation.
She adds that the Contemplative Court shares some characteristics with similar spaces at other museums dealing with equally emotional content, such as the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York City, and the United States Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC.
There is a room at the Holocaust Museum, and it is near the end of the experience where you can go in and light a candle in memory, and I have seen this type of room in other spaces, Washington says.
I think (ours) is very unique because there is power in moving water.
Water is referenced in other parts of our building.
The Middle Passage, in psychology its the reference of cleansing oneself, of purification.
Perkins +Wills Phil Freelon served as lead architect for the design collaboration, known as Freelon Adjaye Bond/Smith Group JJR.
He says water as a cleansing, spiritual element has been used in architectural features for millennia.
But this room, he says, is totally different.
Its cylindrical, theres a roof over it .
theres water coming from above.
You could say that about a lot of different places around the world, Freelon says, but how we do it and how it fits in the storyline and ambiance of the space is whats unique and what is powerful for the museum.
He says the driver behind the thought process of the creation of the Contemplative Court, is that the majority of the building is below ground.
Once you know the beginning of the story is below street level, Freelon says it was clear that bringing some light down in certain places would be a good thing to do.
But if you have exhibits that have technology associated with them and in special lighting, you dont necessarily want or need a lot of natural light, Freelon says.
On the other hand, you know if youre going through some difficult stories and artifacts, reading and seeing part of the African American story, and you know this engenders some strong emotion, we felt it would be appropriate to have a place in the museum where folks could come and experience natural light.
Freelon says the room is both a refresher, and respite from looking at so much material.
We wanted punctuation marks in the story and between exhibits where people can regroup .
discuss, contemplate what theyve seen, and then move on, Freelon explains, adding that from the very beginning of the design ideas it was clear that water would be part of the space.
Theres also a water feature on the south side of the museums exterior, he says, that picks up the spirituality and cleansing element for both the outside and inside.
The museum is able to reclaim some of the rainwater and runoff in the outside feature.
In the Contemplative Court, the water comes from the city system and is treated in a way so that there are no contaminants in the water vapor in the enclosed space.
Freelon says there was a lot of thinking about the cylindrical shape of the fountain that falls gracefully from the skylight, like a shimmering glass curtain.
We call it the Oculus, because light is coming down, Freelon says.
The root word goes back to Latin .
your ocular nerve, so thats an easy verbal reference to the eye.
Thats a round part of the body, and it just made sense to bring light down in that cylindrical, circular form.
It is also a counterpoint to the very regular geometry of the buildings rather square, layered crown shaped exterior that is often ablaze with reflected sunlight.
We felt that something circular at that point .
made sense because you can flow around, and you can sit around, not on any hard edges.
It just seemed like the right form as opposed to something rectangular, Freelon says.
The museums Washington says the Contemplative Court is a good place for the museums visitors.
Fifty percent are over the age of 50, and the majority of visitors are between 60 and 90 years old.
In museums, she notes, people are always looking for a place where they can just sit down for a little while with their families.
But the room is a place of joy as well as a place for reflection.
Weve had two proposals in this space .
and people have come in their bridal regalia to try and use the space for that moment, but were not allowed to have ceremonies here so that got shut down, Washington laughs, because such things arent allowed in a federal building.
People have posted proposals online.
So its just kind of a fun moment when we hear its happening from the floor and we all come down to just watch because its kind of amazing what people feel the space is.
But for visitors like Anna Pijffers, looking up at the cascading fountain, the space is also a symbol of hope for how she and some others think the world could be.
Im thinking you see the rain falling, and rain falling can mean tears of slavery, and of the time that was, Pijffers says, but time goes on.
The world goes on.
Everything is change.
Theres no difference between the black and white.
Its one community.
The Smithsonians National Museum of African American History and Culture will celebrate the first anniversary of its opening September 23 to 24 with performances, public programs and extended hours.
The basketball is scuffed and scruffy, its provenance unknown, its rotating tricolors, when in motion, creating a mesmerizing pinwheel effect.
This sacred relican official game ball used by the late, lamented American Basketball Associationreposes behind glass at the new National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.
It came to symbolize the ABA, a renegade professional league that ditched the traditional brown ball almost as an act of youthful defiance.
The ABA was launched exactly 50 years ago when 11 owners ponied up franchise fees of at least $5,000 to get into a league whose purposenot unlike many of todays internet start-upswas to force an eventual merger, in this case with the National Basketball Association.
The kaleidoscopic ball had been ordered up by the nearsighted commissioner, NBA legend George Mikan, who said he could barely see its drab counterpart in a dimly lit arena.
The Audacity of Hoop: Basketball and the Age of Obama Equal parts biographical sketch, political narrative, and cultural history, "The Audacity of Hoop" shows how the game became a touchstone in Obamas exercise of the power of the presidency.
Buy

And the neighborhood gyms in which ABA teams often competed were pretty much all dimly lit.
In the 1997 ABA documentary Long Shots, Lloyd Gardner, trainer for the Kentucky Colonels, remembered crowds so small that you could count the house in the time it took to play the national anthem.
There were a bunch of people disguised as empty seats, recalled the leagues first big star, Connie Hawkins.
In an attempt to challenge the NBAs position as the basketball league, the ABA adopted a frantic, streetwise style of play redolent of improvisational theater.
The imperative was entertainment, says Alexander Wolff, author of The Audacity of Hoop.
Unfortunately, the league never got much in the way of exposure.
With no national TV deal, much of the revenue came from ticket sales.
And to sell tickets, ABA players let every kind of freak flag flyfrom Afros on their black players to handlebar mustaches on their white ones.
No Afro was more bountiful than the Mushroom Cloud that crowned Darnell (Dr. Dunk) Hillman.
It was Hillman who taught Julius (Dr. J) Ervinghe of the jukes, jams and astonishing midair movesto groom an Afro for maximum size and aerodynamics.
Jack McCallum, whose book Dream Team chronicles the 1992 U.S. Olympic mens basketball squad, says the ABA was the outlaw game and not just because it employed players the NBA had blackballed and adopted rules that effectively discouraged effort on defense.
The senior circuit seemed constrained when compared to the free-flowing ABA, which gave us off-court apparel right out of Shaft, slam-dunk contests, a radical the world-is-ending three-point line (which the NBA derided, then adopted) and a jazzy up-tempo style that flew in the face of bounce passes, back doors and boxing out.
These extemporaneous performers (Travis The Machine Grant, George The Iceman Gervin, Levern Jelly Tart) were often as colorful as the balls they dribbled.
No one embodied the rebellious spirit of the ABAand the excess of the disco eramore than Spirits of St. Louis power forward Marvin Bad News Barnes.
He was nothing if not resourceful.
After a long night of revelry in New York, he overslept and failed to make his flight to Virginia.
No problem: He arranged for a private plane and swanned into the arena during warm-ups, two women in tow, clutching a bag of burgers.
Flinging open his ankle-length mink coat to show off his Spirits uniform, he announced, Boys, Game Time is on time!
Though benched for the opening tip and most of the first quarter, Bad News ultimately contributed 43 points and 19 rebounds.
The vast majority of ABA franchises were financially stressed.
Teams that didnt move to other cities often vanished into the ether.
Four ABA teamsthe San Antonio Spurs, Indiana Pacers, Denver Nuggets and New York (then New Jersey and now Brooklyn) Netssurvived, when, in 1976, the league was finally bagged as a takeout order for the NBA.
In Americas imagination, the Vietnam War is not so much celebrated as it is assiduously contemplated.
This inward-looking approach is reflected in films like The Deer Hunter and Apocalypse Now, best-selling novels and popular memoirs that dwell on the psychological impact of the war.
Was the war worth the cost, human and otherwise?
Was it a winnable war or doomed from the outset?
What are its lessons and legacies?
These questions also underpin Ken Burns Vietnam War documentary, which premiered September 17.
But many forget that before the Vietnam War ended as a Cold War quagmire, it began as a clear-eyed anti-communist endeavor.
As a child, I was always fascinated by comics; now, as a cultural studies scholar, Ive been able to fuse this passion with an interest in war narratives.
Comics  more than any medium  reflect the narrative trajectory of the war, and how the American public evolved from being generally supportive of the war to ambivalent about its purpose and prospects.
The voice of the people

Histories of war are often told through the major battles and the views of the generals and politicians in power.
American comics, on the other hand, tend to reflect the popular attitudes of the era in which they are produced.
Due to serialization and mass production, theyre uniquely equipped to respond to changing dynamics and shifting politics.
During the Great Depression, Superman battled corrupt landlords.
At the height of World War II, Captain America clashed with the fascist Red Skull.
Tony Starks transformation into Iron Man occurred alongside the growth of the military industrial complex during the Cold War.
And the diverse team of X-Men first appeared during the civil rights movement.
These storylines reflect the shifting attitudes of regular people, the target audience of these comics.
More recent plots have included Tea Party rallies, failed peace missions in Iran and coming-out stories  all of which underscore the fact that comics continue to engage with current affairs and politics.
As modes of modern memory, comics  to quote French historian Pierre Nora  confront us with the brutal realization of the difference of real memoryand history, which is how our hopelessly forgetful modern societies, propelled by change, organize the past.
In other words, comics are a type of historical record; theyre a window into what people were thinking and how they were interpreting events  almost in real time.
From hawks to doves

The comics produced in the years during, after and leading up to the Vietnam War were no different.
The conflict, its soldiers and its returning veterans appear in mainstream comics franchises such as The Amazing Spider Man, Iron Man, Punisher, Thor, The X-Men and Daredevil.
But the portrayal of soldiers  and the war  shifted considerably over the course of the conflict.
Prior to 1968 and the Tet Offensive, Marvel comics tended to feature pro-war plots that involved superhero battles involving U.S. compatriots and the South Vietnamese battling National Liberation Front operatives and Ho Chi Minhs communist forces.
These Manichean plots were reminiscent of World War II comics, wherein the good guys were clearly distinguished from their evil counterparts.
But as the anti-war protest movement started to gain momentum  and as public opinion about the conflict turned  the focus of such works shifted from heroic campaigns to traumatic aftermaths.
More often than not, these included storylines about returning Vietnam War veterans, who struggled to return to civilian life, who were haunted by the horrors of conflict and who often lamented those left behind (namely their South Vietnamese allies).
Such transformations  superhero hawks becoming everyday doves  actually foreshadowed a common trauma trope in the Hollywood films that would be made about the war.
No supermen in The 'Nam

Marvel Comics The Nam (1986-1993), written and edited by Vietnam War veterans Doug Murray and Larry Hama, reflects the mediums ability to narrate the past while addressing the politics of the present.
The plots, for example, balanced the early jingoism with a now familiar, post-conflict cynicism.
Each issue was chronological  spanning 1966 to 1972  and told from the point of view of a soldier named Ed Marks.
As Hama wrote in the introduction to Volume One, Every time a month went by in the real world, a month went by in the comic It had to be about the guys on the ground who got jungle rot, malaria, and dysentery.
It had to be about people, not ideas, and the people had to be real, not cardboard heroes or super-men.
The Nams 84 issues placed historical events such as the Tet Offensive alongside personal stories involving search and destroy campaigns, conflicts with commanding officers and love affairs.
The 'Nams initial success was critical and commercial: the inaugural December 1986 issue outsold a concurrent installment of the widely popular X-Men series.
While Jan Scruggs, president of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial fund, questioned whether the war should be the subject of a comic book, Newsweek editor William Broyles praised the series, noting its gritty reality.
The most telling praise came from Bravo Organization, a notable Vietnam veterans group.
The Nam was recognized by the organization as the best media portrayal of the Vietnam War, beating out Oliver Stones Platoon.
As works of art, the Vietnam War comics are only one of many places the Vietnam War has been restaged, remembered and recollected.
One of the wars enduring legacies is the way it has inspired its veterans, its victims and its historians to try to piece together a portrait of what actually happened  an ongoing process that continues with Burns documentary.
There has been no universal consensus, no final word.
As Pulitizer Prize-winning author Viet Thanh Nguyen wrote, All wars are fought twice.
The first time on the battlefield, the second time in memory.
Editor's Note: This article was updated on September 22 to correct which forces Marvel characters fought in comics.
This article was originally published on The Conversation.
Cathy Schlund-Vials, Professor of English and Asian American Studies, University of Connecticut
Two young men dressed in white kneel on the ground, ready to begin their duel.
Eyes lock onto those of his opponent.
Hearts beat faster.
Ancestral sounds echo forth from the berimbau, a single-stringed bow-shaped instrument.
Only then do the two shake hands, and the match may commence.
With a dynamic, animal-like force, the two exchange movements of attack and defense in a constant flow of exploring and exploiting each others strengths and weaknesses, fears and fatigues.
They wait and watch patiently for that careless moment in which to drive home a decisive blow.
Related Content New York City Could Finally Lose Its Prohibition-era Dancing Rule

Capoeira developed in Brazil, derived from traditions brought across the Atlantic Ocean by enslaved Africans and fueled by the burning desire for freedom.
It soon became widely practiced on the plantations as a means of breaking the bonds of slavery, both physically and mentally.
During this time, the art was considered a social infirmity and officially prohibited by the Brazilian Penal Code.
The identification of the outlaw with capoeira was so widespread that the word became a synonym for bum, bandit, and thief.
However, that did not stop the capoeiristas from practicing.
They moved to marginal places and camouflaged the martial art as a form of dance.
Today, we find people all over the world practicing capoeira, not only in parks and studios but also universities and professional institutions.
It took a central role at this years Smithsonian Folklife Festival, where the On the Move program explored the journeys people take to and within the United States and the cultures, stories and experiences they carry with them.
Capoeira is a result of the phenomenon of people migrating to new lands.
As Mestre Jelon Vieira explained during the Festival, Capoeira was conceived in Africa and born in Brazil.
The Tradition: Resistance and Resilience

Between 1500 and 1815, Brazil was a colony of the Portuguese Crownan empire sustained by slave labor.
The business of capturing and selling humans brought enormous wealth to the Portuguese Crown, but it brought huge numbers of enslaved Africans to the New World.
Hundreds of people were packed into overcrowded, infected holds of slave ships in order to maximize profit.
As a result of the perilous and unhealthy conditions during the three-month journey, more than half of the enslaved lost their lives, their limp bodies tossed overboard.
Upon arrival, they were sold at the Sunday market and sent to work in the hot, humid and harsh conditions of the plantations, where many would be worked to death.
The high mortality rates among the enslaved populations in Brazil, along with an increased demand for Brazilian raw materials like sugar, gold and diamonds, spurred the importation of growing numbers of Africans.
An estimated four million enslaved people were shipped to Brazil until the mid-19th century.
The enslaved resisted in various forms: armed revolt, poisoning their owners, abortion and escape.
The vastness of the Brazilian inlands made it possible for individuals on the run to hide.
Some escaped and formed clandestine communities in the backlands of the rainforest, independent villages known as quilombos.
Here, the Africans and their descendants developed an autonomous socio-cultural system in which they could sustain various expressions of African culture.
Historians surmise that capoeira emerged from these communities as a means for defense under the oppressive Portuguese regime.
By the mid-1800s, the towns and cities of Brazil experienced an unprecedented urbanization.
Cities grew in population but lacked adequate economic planning and infrastructure, resulting in a growing population of vagrants.
The Paraguayan War between 1864 and 1870 brought a flood of veterans and refugees from destroyed quilombos into the cities.
These people were attracted to capoeira not only for its sport and play but also for its powerful means of attack and defense for their survival.
Capoeira became a widespread practice at the beginning of the 20th centuryoutlaws, bodyguards and mercenaries used it.
Even some politicians practiced as a way to sway constituents.
In this time, strong social pressure throughout the country slowly transformed capoeira into a less aggressive weekend pastime.
Eventually capoeiristas were meeting in front of bars, playing an apparently inoffensive kind of dance accompanied by berimbaus.
The oppression of capoeira diminished significantly during the 1930s.
During this time, a particular mestreor masterhad been working toward restoring the dignity and historical perspective of the capoeira of his time.
Mestre Bimba was born in 1899 in Bahia, in northwestern Brazil.
In 1932 he became the first master to open a formal capoeira school called Luta Regional.
By 1937, the school received official recognition by the government.
The course of capoeira had changed.
Mestre Bimba established a disciplined method of teaching and legitimized capoeira as a form of self-defense and athletics.
He developed a style called capoeira regional, which emphasized the technicality of movements and a dance-like nature.
When he was summoned by the government to perform in front of distinguished guests, Mestre Bimba became the first to publicly present capoeira as an official cultural practice.
Capoeira on the Move

Mestre Bimbas success sparked the growth of new schools in Bahia.
As capoeira received more and more public affirmation, the younger mestres found better environments for new expression.
Many of them left Bahia to teach in places like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, taking the opportunity to develop their own styles.
Contemporary capoeira was distinguished by its emphasis on cleanliness and articulation, a paramount fighting technique but also an innovative, spectacular visual show.
The 1960s marked a major turning point for the tradition.
In 1964, Mestre Acordeon created the Grupo Folclrico da Bahia to share capoeira in a more organized and formal way.
He and his group toured the country, reached into local schools, and won recognition in international competitions.
Soon after, he founded the World Capoeira Association with the goals of promoting exchange through workshops, educational trips, and publications, and codifying a body of rules for the understanding and respect for the history, rituals, traditions and philosophy.
In 1972, the Brazilian government recognized capoeira as on official sport.
The regulations laid down rules, definitions, bylaws, a code of ethics, recognized movements and a graded classification chart for students.
It also established rhythms for the music and guidelines for the role of the berimbaus during competition.
This institutionalization and systemization of capoeira did not sit well with many mestres.
They were opposed to such formalizing efforts, which they saw as an attempt to remove the art from its more organic, grassroots environment.
Despite their opposition, capoeira was already engaged in a tremendous process of adapting to a changing society.
Capoeira was growing, spreading to different parts of Brazil and soon around the world.
It took root in the United States in the mid-1970s when Mestre Jelon Vieira and Mestre Joo Grande introduced their art to new audiences.
Since then, these two influential masters have dedicated their lives to growing a community of capoeiristas.
Mestre Jelon Vieira was born in 1953 in Bahia, Brazil.
He moved to New York City in 1975 and planted the first seeds of capoeira in the United States.
Aside from touring the country, the Caribbean, and Europe with his company, DanceBrazil, Vieira has been teaching in under-resourced communities and at institutions of higher learning such as Columbia University, Yale, Harvard and New York University.
He is sure to immerse his students not only in the techniques of capoeira but also in the philosophy.
Many people suggest that Mestre Jelon may be responsible for the incorporation of capoeira movements into modern-day breakdancing.
Encouraged by Mestre Jelon, Mestre Joo Grande, also from Bahia, founded his own academy in New York City in 1990, where he has trained thousands of students in the tradition of capoeiraAngola.
Both men have been recognized for their mastery and commitment to passing on their traditions of capoeira with the National Endowment for the Arts National Heritage Fellowship, our nations highest honor in folk and traditional arts.
Mestre Jelon and Mestre Joo Grande, at the Folklife Festival, explained his inspiration and how he first learned capoeira.
I looked everywhere to learn capoeira, he said.
When I couldnt find capoeira, I started to observe naturehow the animals survive, how they fly, how they hunt, how the animals behave, how the fish swim, how they fight in the water, how the birds fly and never touch each other, how the wind hits the trees, how the trees move then become still again, how the snake moves on the ground, how the dogs play with humans and each other, how the hurricane turns.
That is what inspired menature.
Capoeira is nature.
Juan Goncalves-Borrega is a curatorial intern at the Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage working with the 2017 On the Move program.
He is pursuing a bachelor of arts in history and a bachelor of science in anthropology at Virginia Commonwealth University.
A version of this article originally appeared on the Festival Blog, produced by the Smithsonian's Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
He was familiar with the horrifying death 62 years ago of Emmett Till, the 14-year-old African-American who was kidnapped by white supremacists, beaten, shot and thrown into a river weighed down with a 75-pound cotton gin fan after supposedly whistling at a white woman in Money, Mississippi.
Yet knowing the details did not prepare the photographer Andrew Lichtenstein for the unsettling experience of visiting the crime scene.
Money feels like a place that hasnt moved forward in time, he says.
The author of Marked, Unmarked, Remembered, a new book of photographs commemorating traumas in Americas past, Lichtenstein recalls Tills murder with the image above, taken in Money, which evokes cottons connection to slavery and segregation.
Cottons a beautiful crop, the way it catches the light, he says.
But its history is blood-soaked.
Marked, Unmarked, Remembered: A Geography of American Memory From Wounded Knee to the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and from the Upper Big Branch mine disaster to the Trail of Tears, "Marked, Unmarked, Remembered" presents photographs of significant sites from US history accompanied by essays from leading historians, posing unsettling questions about the contested memory of traumatic episodes from the nations past.
-Andrew Lichtenstein, Photographer; Alex Lichtenstein, Editor Buy
Bestselling author Dave Eggers might just have begun writing as a side project.
Before penning acclaimed novels like A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius, he was trained as an illustrator.
After a 15-year hiatus from art, Eggers has returned to the drawing board with the whimsical new book Ungrateful Mammals.
In the book he pairs his sketches with quotations plucked from Bible verses, musings on global politics and the quirky thoughts that run through his head.
Proceeds from the book will go to ScholarMatch, a nonprofit that helps underserved students apply to and pay for college.
We caught up with Eggers at 826 Valencia, the headquarters of the coalition of childrens writing centers he founded in San Francisco, to discuss art, social media and these ungrateful mammals.
Ungrateful Mammals Usually involving the pairing of an animal with humorous or biblical text, the results are wry, oddly anthropomorphic tableaus that create a very entertaining and eccentric body of work from one of todays leading culture makers.
Buy

You havent published anything autobiographical since A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Geniusyet many of the animals in your new book have an almost humanlike self-awareness, coupled with quotes that seem personal.
Its almost as though theyre in on the joke.
Where did you seek inspiration in choosing animals, finding text, and pairing the two?
The process for these drawings and paintings is not organized or rational.
Late at night, I sit on the floor and I draw animals.
After I draw them, the personality of the animal will assert itself and a phrase will occur to me.
For some reason, the phrases are often either Biblical or refer obliquely to global political financial crises.
Sometimes I just write something that makes me laugh.
In all cases, the whole project is absurd, given Im a grown man.
A number of the quotes deal with the Greek financial crisis.
Why the focus on that?
Well, mammals are inordinately interested in the plight of Greek purchasing power vis a vis the European Union.
So Im just reflecting that.
Why did you stop producing visual art for so long?
And what made you come back?
I studied painting and drawing most of my life, all the way through college  most of that time in classical drawing programs.
But I didnt really find my voice in the visual arts until about eight years ago, when a gallerist, Noah Lang, thought my drawings might make for a show.
We decided to direct all proceeds to ScholarMatch, and that provided the motivation to create these pictures, which otherwise would be too ridiculous to contemplate.
Which artists do you admire?
When I was in art school, artists like Eric Fischl were making it possible to think about figurative art again as a viable pursuit, So he was very important to me.
Going further back, I grew up loving Manet, Baselitz, Keifer, Calliebotte, Max Beckmannusually figurative painters with some narrative quality to their work.
Recently, Neo Rausch and Kerry James Marshall are the painters who I find most intriguing.
Which print in Ungrateful Mammals is your favorite?
I still laugh when I see some of the dog drawings.
I love dogs, but their overall affect is just goofy.
You cant take them seriously.
Youve written fiction about how technology can dangerously encroach on our lives.
What is your relationship with technology in real lifeTwitter, Facebook, podcasts and media in general?
I send email, get email, read the news online sometimes, but otherwise I cant quite keep up with the volume of stuff available.
Its hard enough getting through the books I want to read.
And then there are drawings of sentient animals to make.
That takes most of the time I otherwise would spend on social media.
Which books would you recommend to someone looking for a good read?
Theres a great book by Cathy ONeil called Weapons of Math Destruction.
Its about the ways that the datafication of our lives can be dehumanizing and can infringe on human and civil rights.
I recommend it to everyone I know.
Are there any up-and-coming artists or writers that you think people should keep an eye on?
Wajahat Ali is one of the more exciting writers I know.
His take on Muslim-American life is crucial and brings needed levity to the discussion.
You and Mimi Lok won an American Ingenuity Award in 2013 for your work with Voice of Witness.
What is VOW working on now?
Voice of Witness was so grateful to be recognized with that award, so thank you again.
We just published two books in rapid succession.
One, called Chasing the Harvest, was edited by Gabriel Thompson and features the stories of migrant workers in the U.S. Peter Orner and Evan Lyon just published Lavil, about life in Haiti after the earthquake in 2011.
Both are extraordinarily gripping books, and I continue to believe that oral history is one of the most urgent and immediate ways to learn about otherwise opaque or complex sociopolitical subjects.
Plain and simple, you have to listen to the people affected directly.
Because youve returned to visual art after a long break, do you think the mission of 826 Valencia will adapt or expand in the future as well?
826 National continues to grow, but the focus will always be on the written wordon making sure young people have a voice and gain power in societal through their ability to express themselves effectively.
To that end, a new 826 location will open in New Orleans soon, and there are centers based on our model all over the world.
I just visited one in Stockholm a few weeks ago; that was surreal, to see everything looking just like one of our U.S. centers, but in Sweden.
Our hope is that the network continues to expand, with communities around the world adapting 826s ideas to best serve the kids and schools locally.
Writers and artists have always had an important role in society as mirrors or seers.
What does that mean in todays world of mass media and political division?
I think you do what you can, when you can.
Its not more complicated than that.
What are you working on now, or what can we expect from you next?
Around the same time as Ungrateful Mammals comes out, Chronicle Books is releasing a picture book I wrote called Her Right Foot, illustrated by Shawn Harris.
Its about the Statue of Liberty, and with it Im trying to remind readers what the Statue stands for, and I hope to remind kids who are immigrants, or whose parents are immigrants, that they are welcome, that theyve always been the lifeblood of the nation.
As opening speakers kicked off 50th anniversary festivities at the Smithsonian's Anacostia Community Museum last Friday, assembled audience membersmany of them neighborhood nativeswere visibly emotional.
Nodding their heads and offering occasional vocal affirmations during speeches, and chatting convivially with one another in between, those gathered seemed at home in the museum, assured of their place there and glad to be sharing the moment with longtime friends and fresh faces alike.
The vibe in the assembly room could not have been more appropriate given the Anacostia Museums mission: to bring the people of a historic D.C. region together in appreciation of the many cultural narratives playing out in their community.
The 1967 founding of the museum, sited at the heart of a predominantly African-American part of the city, was at the time a radical act.
Civil rights agitators were making big waves in Washington then, and the Anacostia project became a beacon of solidarity.
Richard Kurin, a Smithsonian distinguished scholar and ambassador at large, asserted in his remarks that the groundbreaking nature of the museum was the result of the vision of founding director John Kinard.
Initially, Kurin recalls, the concept was much less daring: the museum would simply house miscellaneous Smithsonian artifacts, a gesture to show that the Institution cared about regions like Anacostia.
Under Kinard, though, it took on a much more ambitious and innovative set of priorities.
At the heart of Kinards philosophy, Kurin says, were the ideals of community, participation and expression.
Far from a mere branch of the Smithsonian, the Anacostia Museum would become a cultural nexus in its own right.
With a smile, Kurin describes Kinard as a rabble-rouserone with the chutzpah necessary to turn a modest outreach project into something much greater.
John Kinards daughter Joy, author of the just-published memoir The Man, The Movement, The Museum, was unable to hold back tears as she addressed the crowd.
I grew up in this museum, she says, thinking back on the embracing atmosphere of Anacostia, and the constant busyness of her visionary father.
She says John was always either at the museum or in the big city attending important meetings.
He was a storyteller, she remembers, and writing his own story felt like the least she could do to repay him.
Calling the book a labor of love, Joy stresses the impact her fathers work had on future generations.
The newly opened National Museum of African American History and Culture, situated right on the National Mall, is a manifestation of the work done here, she asserts with pride.
I am so full today.
Landle Edward Jones, the CEO of Crazee Praize Nation, spoke eloquently of the philosophy of John Kinard, who he says was adamant that museums had responsibilities that go beyond collecting treasures.
A museum must be an instigator of new cultural and social trends, Jones says, a catalyst for change in the environment it shares with its constituency.
Kinards genius was in meeting the public on their own terms.
A fitting follow-up to this comment was the spirited performance of gospel artist Clifton Ross III, who enlisted the help of his audience as he belted out passionate call-and-response numbers.
Thank you, Lord / for all you have done for me was the driving sentiment in his first piece; members of the crowd joyously clapped and sang along.
Rosss second song revolved around perseverance and optimism.
Its a long time coming, he sang, but I know change is going to come.
This kicked off a day filled with a host of exultant community-oriented performances, all of them open to members of the Anacostia public.
Local musician Brent, of the band Brent & Co., played New Orleans-inspired music on an acoustic guitar, his voice husky, his body bouncing with the beat, his head bobbing and tilting with each note.
As he prepared to start in on his second song, he shared memories of Anacostia, telling stories while strumming the opening chords in an effortless holding pattern.
A pair of dancers from Capitol Movement Dance Company delivered graceful routines.
The first dancers performance was characterized by sweeping, arcing movements of the arms, and seamless transitions from a standing position to the floor and back.
Her emotion was plain on her face throughout.
The second dancer, a tap specialist, moved her own arms as though she were swimming through the air.
The staccato of her tap shoes aligned perfectly with the syncopated guitar tune she was dancing to.
Kuumba Learning Center, an Anacostia community mainstay, was also represented.
First, a teacher led a group of elementary school-age students in a birdlike dance number, in which bodies glided and soared to a song called Well Rise Up.
Then, an older batch of students, colorfully attired in traditional African garb, proudly delivered their school anthem, Welcome to Kuumba, informing a delighted crowd that creativity, self-identity, this is how we roll.
In their final piece, the Kuumba kids clapped and swayed side to side, calling attention to our African roots and repeating the rallying cry Black power!
/ Organize!
/ Always focused, / freedom on our minds.
Outside the museum, on the lawn, visitors were treated to a show by the Garfield Elementary School drumline and cheerleaders.
The energetic drum coach asked the crowd for permission to brag about his kids a littlehe noted that the drumline had gone toe to toe with high school squads in recent competitions, and had more than held their own.
The sound of the drums was crisp on the warm afternoon, and the dancing of the navy and white-uniformed cheerleaders provided a dynamic complement.
Other events included additional song and dance, a spoken word recital, and a book signing by Joy Kinard.
The exhibitions on display in the museum served as a fitting backdrop for the event.
Your Community, Your Story: Celebrating Five Decades of the Anacostia Museum is a loving retrospective assembled for the occasion of the jubilee.
It is now open to all.
Occupying the heart of the museum space is the Gateways/Portales display, which looks critically at the experience of those with Latin roots living in the D.C. community, as well as those of Baltimore, Maryland; Charlotte, North Carolina; and Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina.
It will be on view through January.
The resounding message of the Anacostia Community Museum is one of acceptance and understanding.
It is a place where visitors can expect to walk in the shoes of others for a while, and come to terms with stories that may be substantially different than their own.
Fifty years after its founding, such a space is as essential as ever for keeping bonds strong in troubled times.
We need to understand how important institutions like this are, Joy Kinard says, to support local history and what people have done.
To Kinard and the members of her community, the museum will forever be an emblem of triumph and resilience, a living rejection of bigotry both past and present.
I wasnt here 50 years ago, Kinard says, but I have an inkling of what happened.
And that day means so muchnot just for Washingtonians, but people around the nation.
On Saturday, October 7 from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., the Anacostia Community Museum will be hosting a Block Party featuring local vendors, live music, food trucks and ample activities.
The event will be held at the museum, and will be open to the public.
Admission is free.
The new exhibition Your Community, Your Story: Celebrating Five Decades of the Anacostia Museum is on view through January 6, 2019.
Even in the darkness of the Louisiana night, Jeanine Michna-Bales could still make out the eight former slave quarters on the Magnolia Plantation.
They stood in rows, first erected by the family of Jean Baptiste LeComte I, who acquired the property in 1753.
A National Parks ranger had escorted the photographer onto the property earlier that night, but he'd since left her alone with her camera.
At its peak in the 1860s, at least 75 people lived at the Magnolia Plantation.
Following the Civil War, its slave cabins did not go away.
Instead, like so many other plantations, they were recycled into sharecropper cabins.
As late as 1970, black laborers still lived in the dwellings.
"You could just feel like you weren't alone," Michna-Bales recalls.
"There were other souls with you."
Of the pictures she took that night, one captured a slave quarter dwarfed by the night sky and trees.
The shot feels far away, like the person behind the lens might have been taking one last look back.
She titled it Decision to Leave," and the photograph begins Through Darkness to Light: Photographs Along the Underground Railroad, a photography book published earlier this year that chronicles a roughly three-month, 1,400-mile journey from bondage to freedom.
An estimated 100,000 people escaped on the Underground Railroad, the system of secret routes and safe houses embedded into the landscape in the early- to mid-19th century, forging countless trails to freedom in the process.
But reconstructing a plausible route a freedom seeker would have taken North was no easy feat.
Today, a vast number of stories from the Underground Railroad remains untold, and visual documentation of it is even more scarce.
[N]obody really kept records," Michna-Bales says.
"The people who did, their lives were at risk for doing so.
So, I just tried to make it so that everything was in operation at the same time, so you weren't jumping from an 1840s basin to an 1860s basin.
The Midwest played an active role in the resistance effort, and, growing up in Indiana, Michna-Bales had long been familiar with the Underground Railroad; some of its stops literally ran through her friends' backyards.
In the early 2000s, she began to wonder what it would look like to translate the road to freedom in a visual way.
This was before the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center (a Smithsonian Affiliate) was created or the Freedom Trails Initiatives passed by Congress, she explains, so she dove into research mode, piecing together slave narratives to construct a historically accurate path.
The route she chose starts in Louisiana and ends in Ontario, Canada.
While all who embarked on the treacherous journey North risked torture or death if they were found out, escape was especially unlikely from a place in the Deep South like Louisiana.
Physically and emotionally closed off from the North, those trapped there couldn't expect to receive any help from Underground Railroad conductors until theyd made the long trek by foot to border states like Maryland, Kentucky and Virginia.
But though the trail she traces was uncommon, people did run away from plantations like Magnolia, they just weren't necessarily headed North or toward Florida or Mexico.
Instead, as Michna-Bales learned during her research, some people in the Deep South chose to hide in plain sight, seeking temporary shelter in nearby plantations.
They would stay gone for a day or a week or a couple of weeks and then, inevitably, for the most part, they would go back, she says.
Michna-Bales spent more than three years shooting the book.
The photographs, heavy with atmosphere, are told through the first-person point of view, a decision she reached because she wanted the photographs to feel as intimate as possible.
As she puts it: "I felt people needed to understand what these people needed to go to in order to be free.
You're leaving everything behind, and you don't know if you're going to make it.
Are you going to be killed?
Are you ever going to see your family members again?"
Like she did for the Magnolia Plantation, Michna-Bales scouted each of her locations during the day and returned to photograph them during the dead of night, when it would have been safer for runaways to travel in order to avoid detection.
Only when the location shots veer closer to Canada, to freedom, do the first rays of light enter her frame.
Photographs from Through Darkness to Light are currently on view in a traveling exhibition at the Wyandotte County Historical Museum in Bonner Springs, Kansas, until October 10.
The first edition of the Boston Cooking-School Cook Booknow known as The Fannie Farmer Cookbookreads like a road map for 20th-century American cuisine.
Published in 1896, it was filled with recipes for such familiar 19th-century dishes as Potted Pigeons, Creamed Vegetables, and Mock Turtle Soup.
But it added a forward-looking bent to older kitchen wisdom, casting ingredients such as cheese, chocolate, and ground beefall bit players in 19th-century U.S. kitchensin starring roles.
It introduced cooks to recipes like Hamburg Steaks and French Fried Potatoes, early prototypes of hamburgers and fries, and Fruit Sandwiches, peanuts sprinkled on fig paste that were a clear precursor to peanut butter and jelly.
Related Content Fannie Farmer Was the Original Rachael Ray

Americans went nuts for the 567-page volume, buying The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book in numbers the publishing industry had never seenaround 360,000 copies by the time author Fannie Farmer died in 1915.
Home cooks in the United States loved the tastiness and inventiveness of Farmer's recipes.
They also appreciated her methodical approach to cooking, which spoke to the unique conditions they faced.
Farmer's recipes were gratifyingly precise, and unprecedentedly replicable, perfect for Americans with newfangled gadgets like standardized cup and spoon measures, who worked in relative isolation from the friends and family who had passed along cooking knowledge in generations past.
Farmer's book popularized the modern recipe format, and it was a fitting guide to food and home life in a modernizing country.
Recipes today serve many purposes, from documenting cooking techniques, to showing off a creator's skills, to serving up leisure reading for the food-obsessed.
But their most important goal is replicability.
A good recipe imparts enough information to let a cook reproduce a dish, in more or less the same form, in the future.
The earliest surviving recipes, which give instructions for a series of meaty stews, are inscribed on cuneiform tablets from ancient Mesopotamia.
Recipes also survive from ancient Egypt, Greece, China, and Persia.
For millennia, however, most people weren't literate and never wrote down cooking instructions.
New cooks picked up knowledge by watching more experienced friends and family at work, in the kitchen or around the fire, through looking, listening, and tasting.
Recipes, as a format and genre, only really began coming of age in the 18th century, as widespread literacy emerged.
This was around the same time, of course, that the United States came into its own as a country.
The first American cookbook, American Cookery, was published in 1796.
Author Amelia Simmons copied some of her text from an English cookbook but also wrote sections that were wholly new, using native North American ingredients like pompkins, cramberries, and Indian corn.
Simmons's audience was mainly middle-class and elite women, who were more likely to be able to read and who could afford luxuries like a printed book in the first place.
The reach of both handwritten recipes and cookbooks would expand steadily in the coming decades, and rising literacy was only one reason.
Nineteenth-century Americans were prodigiously mobile.
Some had emigrated from other countries, some relocated from farms to cities, and others moved from settled urban areas to the Western frontier.
Young Americans regularly found themselves living far from friends and relatives who otherwise might have offered help with cooking questions.
In response, mid-19th-century cookbooks attempted to offer comprehensive household advice, giving instructions not just on cooking but on everything from patching old clothes to caring for the sick to disciplining children.
American authors routinely styled their cookbooks as friends or teachersthat is, as companions that could provide advice and instruction to struggling cooks in the most isolated of spots.
Americans mobility also demonstrated how easily a dishor even a cuisinecould be lost if recipes werent written down.
The upheaval wrought by the Civil War singlehandedly tore a hole in one of the most important bodies of unwritten American culinary knowledge: prewar plantation cookery.
After the war, millions of formerly enslaved people fled the households where they had been compelled to live, taking their expertise with them.
Upper-class Southern whites often had no idea how to light a stove, much less how to produce the dozens of complicated dishes they had enjoyed eating, and the same people who had worked to keep enslaved people illiterate now rued the dearth of written recipes.
For decades after the war, there was a boom in cookbooks, often written by white women, attempting to approximate antebellum recipes.
Standardization of weights and measures, driven by industrial innovation, also fueled the rise of the modern American recipe.
For most of the 19th century, recipes usually consisted of only a few sentences giving approximate ingredients and explaining basic procedure, with little in the way of an ingredient list and with nothing resembling precise guidance on quantities, heat, or timing.
The reason for such imprecision was simple: There were no thermometers on ovens, few timepieces in American homes, and scant tools available to ordinary people to tell exactly how much of an ingredient they were adding.
Recipe writers in the mid-19th century struggled to express ingredient quantity, pointing to familiar objects to estimate how much of a certain item a dish needed.
One common approximation, for instance, was the weight of six eggs in sugar."
They also struggled to give instructions on temperature, sometimes advising readers to gauge an ovens heat by putting a hand inside and counting the seconds they could stand to hold it there.
Sometimes they hardly gave instructions at all.
A typically vague recipe from 1864 for Rusks, a dried bread, read in its entirety: One pound of flour, small piece of butter big as an egg, one egg, quarter pound white sugar, gill of milk, two great spoonfuls of yeast.
By the very end of the 19th century, American home economics reformers, inspired by figures like Catharine Beecher, had begun arguing that housekeeping in general, and cooking in particular, should be more methodical and scientific, and they embraced motion studies and standardization measures that were redefining industrial production in this era.
And that was where Fannie Merritt Farmer, who started working on The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book in the 1890s, entered the picture.
Farmer was an unlikely candidate to transform American cookery.
As a teenager in Boston in the 1870s, she suffered a sudden attack of paralysis in her legs, and she was 30 years old before she regained enough mobility to begin taking classes at the nearby Boston Cooking School.
Always a lover of food, Farmer proved to be an indomitable student with a knack for sharing knowledge with others.
The school hired her as a teacher after she graduated.
Within a few years, by the early 1890s, she was its principal.
Farmer started tinkering with a book published by her predecessor a few years earlier, Mrs. Lincolns Boston Cook Book.
Farmer had come to believe that rigorous precision made cooking more satisfying and food more delicious, and her tinkering soon turned into wholesale revision.
She called for home cooks to obtain standardized teaspoons, tablespoons, and cups, and her recipes called for ultra-precise ingredient amounts such as seven-eighths of a teaspoon of salt, and four and two-thirds cups of flour.
Also, crucially, Farmer insisted that all quantities be measured level across the top of the cup or spoon, not rounded in a changeable dome, as American cooks had done for generations.
This attention to detail, advocated by home economists and given life by Farmers enthusiasm, made American recipes more precise and reliable than they ever had been, and the wild popularity of Farmers book showed how eager home cooks were for such guidance.
By the start of the 20th century, instead of offering a few prosy sentences that gestured vaguely toward ingredient amounts, American recipes increasingly began with a list of ingredients in precise, numerical quantities: teaspoons, ounces, cups.
In more than a century since, it's a format that has hardly changed.
American cooks today might be reading recipes online and trying out metric scales, but the American recipe format itself remains extraordinarily durable.
Designed as a teaching tool for a mobile society, the modern recipe is grounded in principles of clarity, precision, and replicability that emerge clearly from the conditions of early American life.
They are principles that continue to guide and empower cooks in America and around the world today.
Helen Zoe Veit is an associate professor of history at Michigan State University.
She is the author of Modern Food, Moral Food: Self-Control, Science, and the Rise of Modern American Eating and the editor of Food in the American Gilded Age.
She directs the What America Ate website.
She wrote this for What It Means to Be an American, a project of the Smithsonian and Zcalo Public Square.
On April 27, 1931, at the Galerie Percier on the Right Bank of Paris, Alexander Calder presented some 20 pieces of abstract sculpture that would turn out to be a game changerfor Calder, for the Parisian avant-garde, and for the art of sculpture in the 20th century.
Calder had first arrived in Paris from New York five years earlier, in 1926, at the age of 27, and he had been moving back and forth between the two cities ever since.
He was already well-known on both sides of the Atlantic as the creator of beguiling, dazzling wire sculptures of men, women and animals.
And the performances he mounted of his miniature Cirque Calderwhimsical wire figures, including a horse, acrobats and trapeze artists, placed inside a small-scale ring and animated by hand or from suspended wires by Calder himselfhad been attended by a whos who of the Parisian artistic world, including Jean Cocteau, Fernand Lger, Man Ray and Piet Mondrian.
The Galerie Percier show, however, was a shock.
Nobody had ever seen abstract sculpture of such austere lucidity.
Arranged on a long, low platform, these works had an eloquence that was rooted in the artists simplicity of meansin something as basic as the elegance with which wire elements were attached to one another.
The shows title contained the enigmatic words VolumesVecteursDensits.
This put visitors on notice that Calder was exploring the nature of volumes and voids and movements through space.
The work was a deep dive into the nature of nature.
Consider the work titled Croisire.
This daringly simple composition consisted of two intersecting circles to which Calder had added a curving length of thicker rod and two small spheres, painted in white and black.
A croisire can be a cruise on a boat.
In a preliminary list of titles, there was a slightly more elaborate version: Croisire dans lespacein other words, Cruise Through Space.
Working as a minimalist, Calder was mapping a complex, cosmological scheme.
Croisire was about the everything and the nothing of the universe.
Calder was aiming to grasp the ungraspable, to describe the indescribable.
Calder: The Conquest of Time: The Early Years: 1898-1940 The first biography of America's greatest twentieth-century sculptor, Alexander Calder: an authoritative and revelatory achievement, based on a wealth of letters and papers never before available, and written by one of our most renowned art critics.
Buy

Late in May, Calder wrote to tell his sister, Peggy, back in the States, that although he hadnt sold anything from the Galerie Percier show, it was a real success among the artists.
Picasso, who lived down the street from the gallery and was never one to miss a new turn in the story of modern art, appeared even before the opening.
Lger, one of the most respected and adventuresome artists of the day, composed a few precious words for the exhibitions catalog that welcomed Calder into the most exalted circles of the Parisian avant-garde: Looking at these new workstransparent, objective, exactI think of Satie, Mondrian, Marcel Duchamp, Brancusi, Arpthese unchallenged masters of unexpressed and silent beauty.
Calder is of the same line.
While Satie and Duchamp are 100 percent French, Lger noted, Calder is 100 percent American.
**********

Calder had been born in Philadelphia in 1898 into a family of artists.
His father, A. Stirling Calder, was much admired and sought after as a creator of large-scale public sculptures in the early decades of the 20th century.
His mother, Nanette Lederer Calder, was an accomplished painter and a pioneering feminist.
Calder had considered a career in engineering before embracing the visual arts in 1923, when he began studying at New Yorks Art Students League.
Within several years, Calders figure sculptures had already gained him a reputation as a troubadour of the giddy high spirits of the Roaring Twenties on both sides of the Atlantic.
But no one could have foreseen the breakthrough of the Galerie Percier show.
Suddenly, Calder was now being embraced as a prophet of the increasingly austere mood of the early 1930sof a world descending into the Depression and political crises on the left and the right.
Working as an abstract artist, Calder was reaching for a contemplative, almost quietistic mood.
What had changed?
In the years 1930 and 1931 Calder had made two life-changing decisions: He became a married man and an abstract artist.
These were the foundations on which he would build for the rest of his life.
Calders anni mirabiles began in the summer of 1929, when Calder decided to make yet another of his trips back to New York and booked passage on a French ocean liner, the De Grasse.
For the 30-year-old artist, who had worked his way to San Francisco and later to Europe as a crew member on a couple of rusty old boats, being a paying customer on the De Grassea luxurious ship with an indoor swimming pool and a spectacular dining roommust have been heaven.
Calder regarded himself as a fairly experienced seaman after those earlier voyages.
He believed that moving as much as possible was the best way to avoid seasickness, so he made it a habit to circulate on the deck.
Early in the crossing, as he made his rounds, he came up behind a young woman, accompanied by a man who was her father or at least old enough to be.
Wanting to get a better look, he reversed direction, and after passing the couple and discovering that she was indeed attractive, with blue eyes and thick, light hair, he made a point on his next pass around the deck of wishing them, Good evening!
To this, Calder remembered years later, he heard the older man say to the young woman, There is one of them already!
Apparently Calder had been identified as a young man on the make.
As for the couple Calder was making it his business to get to know, the man was Edward Holton James, and the woman was his daughter Louisa James.
We do not need to imagine what attracted Sandy when he caught sight of Louisa taking her constitutional, for there is a photograph of her sitting on the rail of the De Grasse.
Her cloche hat, her pearl necklace and her fur stole are sleek and elegant, framing her bright eyes and open, smiling lips.
She regards the camera with a look thats frank.
Louisa, 24 years old, had been born in Seattle, Washington, the youngest of three daughters.
She was no stranger to trans-Atlantic travel.
When she was 2, the family had spent five years in France before returning to Boston, where the family had deep roots.
She was young, beautiful, wealthy, and after the time she had spent more or less on her own in Paris was feeling rather independent.
Like many another young woman of her time and place, she hadnt attended college.
But she was very definitely a seeker, a dreamera woman who wanted to find her own way in the world.
In the attic of the house she and Sandy would eventually share in Roxbury, Connecticut, for much of their lives, there are still books she was reading before she met him, which include a volume of Prousts great novel in the original French and another of Socratic dialogues.
Sandy Calder was just a few years older than Louisa.
He was 5 feet 10 inches to her 5-foot-5.
Although not conventionally handsome, he had always been attractive to women.
A somewhat heavy man who was light on his feet, he had hazel eyes, a head of unruly hair and a big open face.
He was funny and easygoing and appealing.
Sandys unconventionalityhe told Louisa he was a wire sculptor, which, not surprisingly, meant nothing to herpiqued the interest of this woman who herself had an unconventional streak, something she had inherited from her father.
Calder put on his tuxedo in the evenings on the De Grasse, and he and Louisa danced, as he later recalled, rather violently, mostly to the tune Chloe, a song about a young mans sentimental affection for his old mammy that Al Jolson had made famous.
During the days they played deck tennis and watched the flying fish from the bow.
Theres nothing like an ocean voyage to encourage a rapidly developing relationship.
By the time they disembarked in New York, Sandy and Louisa were a couple.
She was drawn to his energy, his intensity and his humor.
And he was falling in love with her cool, contemplative spirit.
Louisa James, as Calder soon realized, came from a family as artistically and intellectually distinguished as any in America.
Although Louisas paternal grandfather, Robertson James, had never distinguished himself, his two oldest brothers were none other than William James, the great student of philosophy and psychology and the author of The Varieties of Religious Experience, and Henry James, known at the beginning of his career as Junior, before he began his ascent to near the pinnacle of novelists writing in English.
Louisas father, Edward Holton James, was a man with progressive political ideas, who had been roughed up by the police during the Sacco and Vanzetti protests in Boston.
An adventurous upbringing was something that Sandy and Louisa had in common.
Both families had experienced life on the West Coast as well as the East Coast.
Louisas parents, at the time Calder was getting to know her, lived in somewhat unconventional circumstances in Concord, sharing meals while inhabiting separate but adjacent houses.
The fact that Louisas family was well set financially couldnt have been a matter of indifference to Calder.
Despite his fathers fame as a sculptor, Calders family had never really achieved economic securityand with the crash of the stock market and the coming of the Depression, their situation seemed increasingly perilous.
Over the winter of 1929-30, Louisa and one of her sisters, Mary, were living in New York, and Sandy and Louisas romance was deepening day by day.
Louisa could see that Sandys talent, ambition and charm were unlocking more and more doors.
For a young woman who, as her older daughter, Sandra, would remark many years later, had wanted something different, life with Sandy was very differentwonderfully differentfrom anything shed known.
That winter, Calder had exhibitions in New York and in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and mounted a number of performances of the Cirque Calder, but what mattered most during the eight months Sandy spent in the United States was his intensifying affair with Louisa.
And when he returned to Europe in March, Louisa wasnt very far behind.
She crossed the Atlantic again in July.
She took a bicycle tour of Ireland with a friend, Helen Coolidge.
And then, after a brief stay in London, she hotfooted it over to Parisand to Sandy Calder.
When Louisa returned to the States in November, it seems that it still wasnt entirely sure whether they were going to get married.
However unconventional Louisa might have been, when confronting the question of marriage she was also very much a young woman from a fine Boston family, and aware of all the considerations that came with her place in the world.
She certainly couldnt overlook the fact that Sandys financial prospects were questionable at best.
And yet she already sensed in him the powers of a man who would become one of the most extraordinary artists of the century.
She wrote about this that November in a draft of a letter to her mother; we dont know if it was actually mailed.
To me Sandy is a real person which seems to be a rare thing, she announced.
He appreciates and enjoys the things in life that most people havent the sense even to notice.
He has ideals, ambition, and plenty of common sense, with great ability.
He has tremendous originality, imagination and humour which appeal to me very much and which make life colorful and worthwhile.
She told her mother that he is getting impatient and I dont see how I can keep him waiting, if I have definitely decided to get married.
And she concludedThe thing that you must try and understand is that it can not drag on.
**********

In October 1930 Calder gave a performance of his circus in Paris that was attended by some of the most demanding of the Parisian avant-garde, including the architect Le Corbusier and the painter Piet Mondrian.
Not long after Mondrians visit to the Cirque Calder, Calder paid a visit to Mondrians studio at 16 rue du Dpart.
Mondrian was two years shy of 60 when Calder met him.
His homeapproached through a little courtyard off the boulevard Montparnassewas unlike anything Calder had ever seen.
The apartment had a curious setup, with the bedroom in one structure and the studio, irregularly shaped, a few steps up in what was a different but conjoined building.
The studio was a five-sided room, with windows on two sides.
The odd shape was part of its magic, the violation of the rectangular shape one would ordinarily have expected creating surprising spatial and visual dislocations.
Michel Seuphor, an artist and critic and Mondrians first biographer, recalled, like so many others, the shabbiness of the building and the shock upon coming from a dark entrance into the light-filled studio.
When you entered, it was still dark, but when you went through that second door [from the bedroom to the studio], when that opened, you went from hell to heaven.
Beautiful!
It was incredible.
Calder remembered that irregular space as a very exciting room.
What struck Calder wasnt so much the paintingsthere werent many on displaybut the light and the whiteness of the space, all the furniture painted white or black, the Victrola redone by Mondrian in red, and the broad back wall and the other walls with rectangles of various grays and colors arranged here and there.
Calder wasnt looking at paintings so much as he was walking into a painting.
Standing in that astonishing studio, Calder at last understood where the increasing simplicity of his own wire sculpture had been leading him.
It was much more than an understanding.
It was a feeling.
Calder could now see himself working in the abstract.
Mondrians studio was animated by the power of rectangles of primary colors to convey emotions and intensify experiences; he had been thinking and writing a great deal about architecture and how painting might finally expand and almost dissolve into architecture.
Calder called these walls of rectangles Mondrians experimental stunts with colored rectangles of cardboard tacked on.
He said, It was hard to see the art because everything partook of the art.
Even the victrola had been painted so as to be in harmony.
I must have missed a lot, because it was all one big decor, and the things in the foreground were lost against the things behind.
But behind all was the wall running from one window to the other and at a certain spot Mondrian had tacked on it rectangles of the primary colors, and black, gray + white.
In fact there were several whites, some shiny some matte.
Here abstract art became a visceral, wraparound experience.
Calder, imagining that there might be even more dynamic movement in the room, suggested to Mondrian that perhaps it would be fun to make these rectangles oscillate.
Calder may have been thinking of attaching the colored shapes to motors, as he himself would do in some works over the next few years.
But Mondrian, with what Calder recalled as a very serious countenance, replied, No, it is not necessary, my painting is already very fast.
Mondrian was right.
What Calder recalled as the simplicity and exactitude of Mondrians studio was in fact the vehicle for a propulsive power, a mysterious dynamism provoked not by the obvious mechanics of motors but by rectangles thrust into visually dynamic relations within his light-filled, five-sided room.
Calder sensed that dynamism, even if he didnt yet fully understand it.
As Calder later explained to a friend, Mondrian told me to stick to primary colors; and I needed to know that.
He told me he saw my line quiver.
Mondrian loved Boogie Woogie music and he tried to put that on canvas.
It was these various kinds of speed that came together in Calders work of the next few years.
Mondrians studio was Calders opening to the future.
So now, at thirty-twoso Calder put it in the AutobiographyI wanted to paint and work in the abstract.
His first attempts were paintings rather than sculpturesperhaps a bow to Mondrian.
These paintings are spare and enigmatic.
Most of themthere are fewer than two dozendont bring to mind specific works by Mondrian, in which the black lines extending from edge to edge assert the rectangle of the painting as a powerful, free-standing planar reality.
Calder was already thinking about abstract forms as they moved through a fluid three-dimensional space.
Calder later observed, It was Mondrian who made me abstractbut I tried to paint, and it was my love of making plastic things that turned me to constructions.
By plastic, Calder meant what Mondrian meant.
He meant plasticitythe way forms could be shaped and reshaped to transform the space around them.
So even as he was working on these first abstract paintings, Calder was beginning to contemplate a new kind of abstract sculpturethe sculptures that would emerge at the Galerie Percier in Paris scarcely six months later and establish him as one of the most radical artists of his time.
The visit to Mondrians studio was an experience that Calder would never forget.
It was, Calder later wrote, like the baby being slapped to make his lungs start working.
Mondrian didnt make Calder a great abstract artist, but he awakened the possibilityhe unleashed it.
As Calder put it, Mondrians studio gave me the shock that converted me.
**********

Calder was becoming an abstract artist.
But first he had to go back to America and marry Louisa James.
Calder arrived back in New York just three days before Christmas, 1930.
He had several works in an important show at the Museum of Modern Art, which was little more than a year old, but they were wooden sculptures of men and women and a cow that had been done a few years earlier and that gave no inkling of where his work was now moving.
He spent a couple of happily busy holiday weeks in New York, where Calders parents were getting to know Louisa and her mother and her sisters; Louisas father was in India, working on a book attacking British colonial rule.
To Calders sister, Peggy, living in the Bay Area, Calders mother wrote as full a description as she could muster of the woman who was soon to be her daughter-in-law.
She described her as athletic somewhatfairblue eyesbushy brownish hair.
And she went on to say that Louisa is neither shy nor bold nor merry, but loves Sandys jokes + Sandys maulinghas I think a clear head.
The wedding was up in Massachusetts, at Louisas parents place in Concord on January 17, 1931.
Sandy had mounted a performance of the Cirque Calder the night before, and when the minister apologized for having missed it, Sandy responded, But you are here for the circus, today.
The glorious circus of Sandy and Louisas life would go on for 45 years.
By the last days of January, Sandy and Louisa were on the SS American Farmer, headed for France, less than two years after they had met on a ship headed for the States.
Writing to her new in-laws, Louisa observed that Sandy was having two or three helpings of pie at dinner and growing visibly stouter.
They were reading Moby-Dick together.
As they got near England, Calder spent several hours one night watching the lighthouses, and the lights of the other ships, and the men crawling up the ladder into the crows nest.
It was a tranquil journey.
So far our married life has run smoothly, Louisa told her in-laws.
No storms at sea it must be a good omen.
**********

A few months later, now established in Paris with his beautiful wife, Louisa, Calder emerged at the Galerie Percier as one of the most daring abstract artists of his generation.
Calders sister, Peggy, writing many years later, speculated that Louisas inheritance, along with wedding checks from friends and relatives, now made it possible for Sandy to experiment freely.
But there was something moresomething about the force of Louisas love that I believe powered his new work.
There was a quietness, a contemplativeness about the lissome Bostonian who became Calders wife.
She was, as he told a friend, a philosopher.
And if Mondrian had given Calder the slap that had awoken him as an abstract artist, Louisa had given him the love that nurtured his contemplative, philosophical side.
Together Sandy and Louisa would embrace the coming decadesa world war, a growing family, a dazzling international famewith the intrepid, idealistic spirit of the bohemian optimists who had first set up house together in Paris in 1931.
Editor's note: An earlier version of this article misstated Calders age in several places.
He was 27 years old in 1926 when he arrived in Paris.
Belgium is supposed to specialize in Brussels sprouts, but last autumn a horticulturist there raised a 2,624.6-pound pumpkin, squashing the world record for the heaviest fruit.
American growers were dismayed.
Pumpkins, after all, are indigenous to the New World.
The first European settlers were stunned by the Native Americans ample squash crop, which they mistook for melon.
Centuries later, pumpkins so impressed newly arrived Irish immigrants that they abandoned the turnips theyd carved into jack-o-lanterns for All Hallows Eve back home.
And pumpkins became an American Halloween doorstep classic.
Yet for two out of the last three years, the worlds largest pumpkins have sprung up in Europe.
Theyre doing very well, and I tip my hat to them, says Ron Wallace, a country club manager in Greene, Rhode Island, who was paraded on the shoulders of jubilant pumpkin growers one glorious day in 2006 after his squash became the worlds first to break 1,500 pounds.
Today, pumpkin growers are gaining on 3,000 pounds, but the Belgians, Swiss and British are in the lead.
While other fruits and vegetables may flourish in warm climates, the record-setting pumpkinsa variety of Cucurbita maxima bred in Nova Scotiaactually prefer cooler weather.
New England has long been considered an ideal environment for them.
We get warm but not too warm, cool but not too cool, explains Matt DeBacco of Rocky Hill, Connecticut.
Summer days are in the mid-80s, maximizing photosynthesis without desiccating the bloated fruit, and the semi-northerly locale means bonus sunlight hours throughout the growing season.
By June the burgeoning giants are growing at an exponential rate, and by August, theyre packing on one to two pounds per hour, while guzzling about 100 gallons of water every day.
In addition to gentle sunshine, the Northeast specializes in Yankee ingenuity.
Nearly all the giant pumpkins in America are grown by amateur gardeners who toil in backyards after work, hardened by hailstorms and hungry woodchucks.
Some of these guys will try anything!
says Steve Reiners, a horticulture professor and commercial pumpkin specialist at Cornell University.
They are almost fiendishly inventivefor instance, designing their own snowshoe-like footwear that wont crush the soil, or spiking the stingy local dirt with fertilizers and fungi to maximize a pumpkins water and nutrient absorption.
Many growers keep online pumpkin diaries, so there is plenty of cross-pollination.
Still, the hobby is full of closely gourded secrets.
High-performance pumpkins like the Pleasure Dome and the Freak II have left lasting genetic legacies, and individual seeds of the sort you might ordinarily salt and crunch by the handful have sold at auction for as much as $1,781.
European giant pumpkin contests first took root around 2000, just about the time a prominent American giant pumpkin grower was assigned to a U.S. Army base in Germany.
The arrival of his orange thumb, notes Jan Molter, treasurer of the European Giant Vegetable Growers Association, coincided with a burgeoning European interest in American-style Halloween.
(Yes, the giant pumpkins, with their foot-thick walls, can be carved, ideally with a chain saw.
They also make excellent boats.)
The first German gourd-baking championship and pumpkin expo took place in 2001.
Europes subsequent rise has been defined by the controversy over indoor growing.
The Old Worlds big players cluster in Northern Europe, where the weather is often harsher than New Englands.
However, high-tech greenhouses with heating and air-conditioning, irrigation systems, automatic fertilization and other frills allow growers to mimic, and in the last few seasons, maybe even improve upon a New England-like climate.
There are no ravenous white-tailed deer in greenhouses, and it can be a perfect June afternoon in Vermont every day of the year.
And because not just anybody can have an industrial greenhouse, it just so happens that several recent overseas champs have been professional plant scientists.
The 24-year-old Belgian winner, Mathias Willemijns, is the lead technician at a large vegetable research center, for example, and has his own personal 130-foot polytunnel, in which he grew just four pumpkins, each of which, by harvest time, tipped the scales at more than 2,000 pounds.
This autumn, the news from New England is not reassuring.
The patches suffered through a cloudy spring, and in peak season the giants were barely gaining 30 pounds a day, compared with their typical 50.
There is some griping about the affordability of European hydroelectric greenhouse heat in Europe, but spirits remain high.
DeBacco believes salvation lies in soil nutrient nanotechnology and genetic technologies.
Wallace has faith in the providence of New England weather.
In the meantime, hes encountered a keen new market for his signature giant pumpkin fertilizer, which is called Wallace Organic Wonder, or WOW.
(The cannabis growers have found me, he says, and they are very, very happy.)
Its raining during a visit to a suburban Connecticut backyard giant pumpkin patch.
Despite the drizzle, the sprinkler sways over the rambling pumpkin vines nearby: A hundred gallons is a whole lot of water.
From under his dripping hat, Steve Maydan beams down at his pumpkin, which he is thinking of calling the Creamsicle.
The whole community is rooting for him.
He points out where three of his neighbors cut down trees at the same timeto allow his garden more sunlight, he suspects.
He shows how he slakes the thirst of a second, remotely located pumpkin patch by snaking a very long green garden hose through the neighborhood sewers.
Barring a miracle, the Creamsicle will weigh in at a relatively dinky 1,000 pounds, just a statewide finisher at best.
But Maydan is getting wilier every year.
His problem woodchuck has been vanquished at last, the powdery mildew hasnt destroyed him yet, and hes feeling...pumped.
A Brief History of Improbably Large Produce

In the madcap world of competitive horticulture, the pumpkin takes the prize, reaching the weight of a Ford Fiesta thanks to its sturdy shape, souped-up genes, bountiful sugars and nourishing root fungi.
But in recent years even cabbage has been supersized.
--Kyle Frischkorn
Newsletters

Get the best of Smithsonian.com by email.
Keep up-to-date on:

History

Science & Innovation

Art

Travel

Special Offers

Sign-Up Now

Email Address Enter your email address
Most evenings, as the sun sets on the bustling National Mall, the tourists scatter, the food trucks drive off, and all goes quiet as the museums close.
But every so often after dark, they become lively works of art in their own right.
On October 14, the faade of the newly renovated Freer Gallery of Art will alight with a short projection-mapped film, A Perfect Harmony, that highlights the history, culture, and artwork that define the collections.
The installation is part of a weekend-long Smithsonian festival titled IlluminAsiawhich will feature Asian food markets, art and cooking demonstrations and music by the Silk Road Ensembleto mark the museums re-opening.
For 22 months, the shuttered building has been undergoing some much needed, largely behind-the-scenes upgrading of its infrastructure and refurbishing of its galleries.
Nestled on the National Mall, near the Smithsonian Castle, the Freer Gallery is home to the countrys acclaimed collection of Asian art, seemingly incongruously housed in an Italian palazzo building.
But to Charles Lang Freer (1854-1919), who donated his extensive collection to the United States and designed the museum to showcase it, these disparate elements dovetail flawlessly.
A follower of the Aesthetic movement, Freer had this conception of beauty that transcended cultures, explains Thomas Wide, assistant director of special projects at Smithsonians Freer Gallery of Art and Arthur M. Sackler Gallery.
As collector, designer, founder and financier, Freer was immersed in the creation and stewardship of the museums creation.
He proposed the museum in 1906 and helped design it, but he didnt live to see the opening in 1923.
The films title, A Perfect Harmony, comes from a letter by artist Dwight William Tryon to Freer.
As Lee Glazer, the museums associate curator of American art explains, Freer liked to develop unexpected cross-cultural connections [and] comparisons by placing diverse objects together.
By doing so, Wide says, he was able to find harmony in this collection of American and Asian art, across culture, across time and place.
The animation in A Perfect Harmony traces the life of the wealthy railroad industry magnate, who hailed from Detroit, Michigan, and became a patron and friend to James Abbott McNeill Whistler.
It was Whistler, an artist whose work was inspired by Japanese and Chinese art, who first sparked Freers interest in Asian art.
The film explores the Freers extensive and unusual travels across Egypt, Japan and China, and his acquisition of more than 9,000 artworks and antiquities along the way.
Highlighting the breadth of the collection, the exterior of the museum will be draped with images of the artworks in the Freer and Sackler Galleries, including Whistlers famed Peacock Room and land- and seascapes by Katsushika Hokusai and Tawaraya Sotatsu, as well as Chinese jades, Southern Indian bronzes, Egyptian glass and Persian lapis lazuli.
The intricate process of projection mapping in A Perfect Harmony involves scanning the building and using a 3D model of it as the basis of the animation.
The animators use specialized computer software and multiple video projectors to display the film on an irregular surfacein this case, the Freers granite exterior.
Over the years, other museums on the Mall have become canvases for projection-mapping projects.
In spring of 2012, artist Doug Aitken broadcast a pop music-based piece SONG 1 onto the curved facade of the Hirshhorn building, and, a year before it officially opened in fall of 2016, the five-story exterior of the National Museum of African American History and Culture became a movie screen for a historical video projection by the critically-acclaimed documentary filmmaker Stanley J. Nelson.
Behind the Freers rich visual feat is project director Richard Slaney and about a dozen animators, designers and sound designers from the UK-based studio 59 Productions, best known for its projection mapping projects at the 2012 London Olympics and for the play War Horse.
Slaney and his crew plan to integrate the building so thoroughly in the film that theyre able to animate each of its individual bricks and even transform the museum into completely different structures.
On the night of the presentation, the audience will catch a glimpse of an Isfahani courtyard and a Japanese temple mystically summoned to the National Mall.
In creating the film for the Freer|Sackler, Slaney and his team poured over the extensive archives and artworks to explore what this collection means today and going forward.
At their heart of the installation, Slaney explains, is highlighting the Galleries as a space for thinking differently, for being inspired by Asian cultures, for embracing different cultures.
By donating his collection and constructing a space for Americans to enjoy it, Freer offered a great democratic act on his part, Wide says.
And I think the other part of that democratic act was to help people see beauty, to stimulate a way of seeing that Freer found in his own life very therapeutic, powerful, meaningful.
"IlluminAsia: A Festival of Asian Art, Food, and Cultures" celebrates the grand reopening of the Freer and Sackler Galleries on Saturday, October 14, 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. and Sunday, October 15, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
From a museum dedicated to the rowdy escapades of the Vikings to an institution focused on the chilling history of leprosy, Norway is filled with museums devoted to different aspects of its unique history.
Here are seven worth visiting.
Holmenkollen Ski Museum

Oslo

Open for nearly a century, the Holmenkollen Ski Museum is considered the worlds oldest museum dedicated to skiing.
And while its collection is extensivecovering more than 4,000 years of skiing history and including ancient rock carvings, equipment used during polar expeditions by Norwegian explorers in the 1800s and moreits showpiece is the 397-foot ski jump tower just outside its doors.
Since 1892, some of the worlds greatest ski jumpers have competed here (the tower has been renovated 18 times in the years since).
Today, visitors can experience the massive structure by soaking in the views from the observation deck at the top.
Leprosy Museum

Bergen

At one time, the buildings housing the Leprosy Museum served as a working hospital.
Called St. Jrgens, the facility dates back to the 1700s and was where, in 1873, Norwegian physician Gerhard Armauer Hansen discovered Mycobacterium lepraethe bacterium that causes leprosy.
Visitors today can still walk through the facilities, where many of the rooms, including patients quarters and a kitchen, remain largely unchanged.
Visitors can get a very real sense of what life was like for patients and healthcare workers who once lived and worked there.
Viking Ship Museum

Oslo

During the Viking Age, a timeframe that most historians agree spanned the late 8th century to the mid-11th century, the Vikings crisscrossed the open waters between their homeland of Norway to various points across Europe.
During these journeys, they would "raid and trade" with villagers.
The Viking Ship Museum is one of only several museums in the world specifically dedicated to showcasing the historic escapades of these Scandinavian seafarers, and its extensive collection includes both reconstructed and preserved Viking ships.
Maihaugen

Lillehammer

Located 110 miles north of Oslo, Maihaugen gives a glimpse of what life was like for Norwegians from the Middle Ages to today.
Spanning 89 acres, the open-air museum stems from a collection belonging to Anders Sandvig, a local dentist who collected artifacts, such as altarpieces, tools and old furniture.
He sold the collection in 1901 and its new owner continued to add new acquisitions, including nearly 200 buildings showcasing the different architectural styles that are commonplace in Norway, like the stave chapel pictured here.
Munch Museum

Oslo

Most people have heard of Edvard Munch, the Norwegian artist responsible for The Screambut what they may not realize is that Munch created multiple versions of this iconic work, including two paintings and two pastels.
The Munch Museum holds one of the paintings (the other painting belongs to the nearby National Gallery), as well as an extensive collection comprised of more than 1,200 paintings, 18,000 prints and six sculptures created by the prolific artist.
Museumgoers are also welcome to visit Ekely, his residence and studio, located six miles to the west of the museum.
Norwegian Museum of Hydropower and Industry

Tyssedal

Located in the village Tyssedal near the countrys southwestern coast, the Norwegian Museum of Hydropower and Industry tells the story of Norways industrial history, specifically its usage of hydropower, a renewable energy source that creates electricity from flowing water.
Housed inside a former power station, the museum gives visitors a firsthand look at its inner workings.
The brave can opt for a guided hike up the mountainside to Lilletopp, which once housed the facilitys pipelines and is now an excellent vantage point for scoping out the areas nearby glacier.
Vigeland Museum

Oslo

Gustav Vigeland remains one of Norways most well-respected sculptors, and the Vigeland Museum and Park celebrates his artistry with a museum and sculpture park dedicated to his immense body of work.
In addition to carving hundreds of sculptures, Vigeland also created woodcuts and drawings, which are on display alongside some of his smaller works.
And just north of the museum sits Frogner Park, home to 200 of his largest pieces, including a Monolith made to look like human bodies that towers 56 feet in height.
The sails on the tiny art installation The Ship of Tolerance look at first like a colorful patchwork quilt.
A closer inspection reveals more than 100 childrens drawings sewn together.
Each represents variations on the theme of tolerance and were created in response to school discussions on the subject.
The collaborative, ongoing international public art project from Ilya and Emilia Kabakov is emblematic of their optimistic works of utopian dreamsa kind of refugee ship propelled by the winds of vividly-colored childhood dreams.
While the actual ship installations have been 60-feet tall when constructed at nine different international sitesso far, including Egypt, Cuba, Miami and the Vaticanthe 2005 piece in the new exhibition Ilya and Emilia Kabakov: The Utopian Projects, on view at the Smithsonians Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, is just 56 inches high.
It is one of 22 models, or maquettes, of the Kabakovs works that make up the exhibition, which includes a number of others that imagine escape.
This show might be the only way that museumgoers could ever experience a full survey of the works of the acclaimed Russian art duo.
Their largescale and celebrated international installationsmore than 300would never fit the floorspace of any museum.
The oldest is a model for the 1985 The Man Who Flew Into Space from his Apartment.
But the maquette in the show was newly constructed in 2015.
Like the largescale originalwhich will be featured at a second retrospective opening October 18 at the Tate Modern in Londonit allows a viewer to peer inside the door to see the crowded, communal apartment, from which a man has apparently flung himself skyward through the roof with a makeshift slingshot.
Twenty-seven years ago, that full-sized version was installed at the Hirshhorn for the couples first U.S. museum retrospective, Directions: Ilya Kabakov, Ten Characters.
Since then, the Ukranian-born Kabakovs, working as a couple for more than a quarter century, have lived and worked in Long Island, New York.
Both fled the Soviet UnionEmilia in 1973, Ilya in 1987.
They married in 1992.
The Kabakovs have been working collaboratively for nearly 30 years, creating installation-based works of unbridled imagination and optimism, a direct response to the hardships, surveillance and suspicion they endured while living in the Soviet Union, says the museum.
And they have become international sensations.
They cant go into a restaurant in Germany or Russia without being stopped for autographs, says Stphane Aquin, the museums chief curator, who organized the overview after he visited the couple in their studio.
I was so impressed by these models, I thought theres something absolutely to be done with these models, he said.
Ilya Kabakov, now 83, was not at the opening of The Utopian Projects.
He no longer travels, Emilia Kabakov says.
So at 71, she was the one who conducted a tour of some of the work on the museums circular second level, speaking with a Russian accent softened by some of the years she spent in France and Belgium.
Of the full-size versions of the Ship of Tolerance, some exist, and some were dismantled.
We build ships in every country, she said after the tour.
If you want to destroy it, you can destroy it.
If you want to keep it, you can keep it.
The process is simple.
The drawings are done by children in every countryafter they talk about tolerance, about culture, about the importance of people to know each other, to not be afraid of each other.
Their images reflect what they talked about, even as the children get to know each other.
Its communication, she says.
And the best communication even if you dont know language is music, drawings, culture.
You have to be able to tolerate the people from another culture .
so we start talking.
Often, while the children are drawing, Kabakov says, the parents who brought them to the event get to talking together as well.
It hasnt always been smooth sailing.
A project in Switzerland was launched during a period of intolerance there.
But after a week of working together, Kabakov says, The city atmosphere changed completely.
Then there was the time last spring they met with the Pope about the artworks placement at the Vatican.
He said, its a very important project, Kabakov says.
But on the day when its supposed to open, Trump came.
It was crazy, she added, mostly because of all the extra security.
Future iterations of the project are to appear in Oslo, Chicago and Detroit in 2018.
The Ship of Tolerance is not the only vessel docked at the homecoming show in Washington, D.C.
The Boat of My Life is a model for a work that would be 52-feet long, 8-feet high and 15-feet across, containing 24 cardboard crates representing different periods of a persons life, sailing inevitably toward death.
Mounted in a dozen different places since 1993, from Salzburg and Grenoble to Durham and Aspen, this model is based on a 2001 version built in Athens, Greece.
Another 2012 work, The Pirates Ship seems more like a metaphor for sunken fortunes in the city where it was builtAtlantic City.
But that wasnt the case, Kabakov said.
We went to see the space in Atlantic City.
It was the ocean, empty spaces and then these huge buildings.
Inspired by a granddaughters story, its intended to look like its an old shipwreck exposed by a hurricane, she said.
Little did we know there would be Sandy.
The ship was actually installed two days after Sandy.
Everything was under water except for one part.
Since then, a second full-sized Pirates Ship has been opened as a playground this year in Redwood City, California.
Maquettes for other works that have been released in multiple places include one for The Fallen Sky.
The work looks like a chunk of the sky had crashed, wedged into the ground.
Its based on an accidental inspiration: when a home in Czech Republic was hit by a hurricane, sending a section of a ceiling painted to resemble blue skies and clouds landed in a field in Geneva.
In its first iteration, in 1995, it was supposed to represent the shards of the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union.
Sometimes the fanciful, imaginative ideas by the Kabakovs were just not practical enough to build.
Still, with the maquette, we get to see their intent.
The Largest Book in the World would have been 21 feet long, giving viewers a kind of Gullivers Travels effect.
Neither The Road of Life and its long wooden path upwards, nor Monument to Icarus were realized to the intended scale, but somehow How to Meet an Angel, envisioned as a 3,300-foot high ladder, was realized in three different locationsand at the top rung, one would meet an angel.
Angel wings are also essential to the self-help How Can One Change Oneself?
which comes with directions:

1.
Make two wings out of tulle and attach leather straps.
Put on the wings and sit in silence and solitude for 5-10 minutes.
Go about your daily tasks.
In two hours time, repeat 

Of the four maquettes of projects that were never realized, one was intended for Washington, D.C.The Large House of Humanity.
With outlines of a Victorian home along the Potomac, letters in wire across the ceiling read, Since home we have but one, this earth we live upon.
With our home in constant motion we are striving toward the stars.
It was previously on view at the Kabakovs first commercial gallery exhibition in Washington, at Hemphill Fine Arts in 2011.
Another piece used wire lettering in a lattice work built in a park.
One must look up to see the message: My Dear One!
When you are lying in the grass, grass, with your head thrown back, there is no one around you, and only the sound of the wind can be heard and you look up into the open skythere, up above, is the blue sky and the clouds floating byperhaps this is the very best thing that you have ever done or seen in your life.
Another model, the 1990 Paintings on the Floor, in which famous works from art history were to have been installed on the floor of the Bank of Seattle, predicts a very similar work next door at the Hirshhorn, Ai Weiwei: Trace, with its 176 portraits of political prisoners, rendered in Lego, but displayed on the floor.
If there is a dreamy, child-like storytelling quality to most of the works, it is so they can be clearly understandable to all levels.
Children can be engaged with the fairytale aspects even as adults can pick up on their commentary about totalitarianism and freedom to travel, create and comment.
For us, its important that theres many levels in your work.
So its understandable for a little child; its understandable for an art historian, Kabakov says.
The model, its like a childs toy.
For them its very interesting.
Some are operational.
They move.
For some adults, they get the poignancy and the irony of the story.
Because youre trying to escape and you can communicate, and its a completely different level.
"Ilya and Emilia Kabakov: The Utopian Projects" continues through March 4, 2018 at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.
The beauty of the open-world video game Minecraft, which remains wildly popular more than eight years after its release, is the sweeping creative freedom it affords to its players.
Given the same basic array of natural resources, different individuals will come up with totally different ideas as to what to build, what materials to build with, and how to expand on their initial concept as days and weeks pass by.
Player designs run the gamut from massive medieval fortresses to gleaming metal skyscrapers; the only real limit developer Mojang imposes on players is the imagination.
Minecrafts exploratory ideal is well realized in Museum Day Live!, the annual nationwide event founded by Smithsonian magazine.
This years Museum Day Live!
festivitiesin which upwards of 1,000 distinct museums across the country will be participating on Saturday, September 23will be complemented by rich Minecraft: Education Edition resources online.
Children and adults alike will be able to draw on the museums they visit to create their own worlds, via a series of highly interactive Minecraft lesson plans put together by Smithsonian and Microsoft.
The game perfectly embodies the imaginative optimism of the Museum Day spirit.
Museums, like the realm of Minecraft, are full of treasures just waiting to be discovered, and what one makes of those treasures is entirely up to him or her.
Just as digging into bedrock in search of valuable metals provides a thrill, so too does entering a museum knowing youll emerge with a more complete understanding of the world around you.
Minecraft players place a high value on knowing what things are made of; so too does tinkerer and photographer Todd McLellan, whose traveling Things Come Apart exhibition is on view at the Birthplace of Country Music Museum in Bristol, Virginia.
To produce the images in the exhibition, McLellan deconstructed everyday mechanical devices (computers, hair driers, stereos, wristwatches, you name it), laid out their myriad components in a methodical and aesthetically pleasing way, then photographed the whole ensemble.
His work shows visitors the wonder lying beneath the seemingly mundane.
Fans of Minecraft know that the pickaxe is an invaluable tool for unearthing the secrets of the natural worldpaleontologists do too.
At the Burke Museum in Seattle, a team of paleontologists will spend Museum Day publicly examining a recently unearthed 65 million-year-old T. rex skeleton, focusing on its extremely well-preserved 1.5-ton skull.
Dinosaur lovers should take heedthis is only the 15th such skull ever excavated worldwide.
The progression of technology is a central theme in Minecraftplayers gradually craft stronger and stronger equipment for themselves, building on their past innovations to carry them into the future.
In many ways, this is also the story of America, and the larger world beyond.
At the Aviation Museum in College Park, Maryland, Museum Day guests can delve deep into the history of the helicopter, and will get a chance to interact with a revolutionary human-powered copter recently engineered by the University of Marylands Aerospace Engineering department.
In nearby Baltimore, at the B&O Railroad Museum, a refurbished B&O #25 Civil War-era locomotive will take viewers back to an age of industrial marvels.
And at Floridas St. Augustine Lighthouse & Maritime Museum, a demonstration on the handicraft of ship modeling will illustrate how naval technologies have evolved across time.
Understanding the history of a place is important to Minecraft players, who ask themselves critical questions upon reaching a new location: Who has occupied this space before me?
What human and animal life has shaped this land?
How can I build on what has already been done here in a responsible way?
It is with these sorts of thoughts in mind that we should confront our own histories, both as Americans and as citizens of the world.
Museum Day will offer ample opportunities to do so.
At the Booth Western Art Museum in Cartersville, Georgia, for instance, visitors will be invited to peruse painting, sculpture and photography tying together more than 150 years of Southern U.S. history.
Meanwhile, Honolulu, Hawaiis Pacific Aviation Museum will be enlightening both young and old as to the enduring significance of Pearl Harbor in the national consciousness, and telling the visceral story of the Pacific campaign of World War II through the medium of period photography.
And at the Connecticut Historical Society in Hartford, distant memories of the Revolutionary War will be vivified through displays of weapons, uniforms and handwritten letters.
In Minecraft online play, community is everything.
The experience of shaping the world around you is most fulfilling when you are among friends, and the opportunity for communities across the Minecraft fandom to engage with one another has contributed immensely to the games enduring appeal.
Community will be the focus of Museum Day Live!
activities at the Ohio History Center in Columbusspecifically, the LGBTQ community, and its rich history both in the region and all across the U.S. A number of transgender veterans will be reflecting on their experiences overseas with the military, and the stars of the locally made documentary film Kings, Queens and In-Betweens will be discussing their own experiences as a panel following a screening.
Perhaps the most fundamental joy one derives from Minecraft is the creation of something beautiful and original where once there was only empty space.
In Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, the Kemerer Museum of Decorative Arts will highlight just this sort of achievement on Museum Day, as it welcomes visitors to take in artworks and artifacts spanning more than 300 years of architecture and design history.
The bare beauty of the items from each time period will provide a unique look at how taste and style have morphed both in and outside America.
All in all, anyone possessing the exploratory itch celebrated by the game Minecraft will have no shortage of stimulating options to pick from as Museum Day Live!
2017 rolls around.
You need only survey the landscape, choose an appealing location, and start digging.
Its getting cooler outside, so what better excuse to head indoors and learn something new?
From contemporary art and mathematics to Harry Potter and dinosaurs, museums are opening new exhibits designed to inform and delight visitors at every turn.
Dont miss these 12 that are coming to museums around the world just in time for fall.
de Young MuseumThe Mori Portraits: Gottfried Lindauers New Zealand

(San Francisco, CA; September 9, 2017  April 1, 2018)

Organized chronologically through New Zealands history, Gottfried Lindauers portraits of Maori elders, politicians, warriors, and leaders are currently on display at San Franciscos de Young Museum.
Lindauer was one of New Zealands most prolific painters, and the oil portraits in this collection date from 1874 to 1903.
Each one represents its subject in minute detail, down to facial tattoos, clothing, and jewelry.
Many of the 31 portraits in the collection will be on display in the U.S. for the first time.
Dont miss Lindauers most famous portrait, Heeni Hirini and Child, that shows a Ngti Maru woman holding an infant on her back.
Museum of Contemporary ArtMichael Rakowitz: Backstroke of the West

(Chicago, IL; September 16, 2017  March 4, 2018)

In the Iraqi-Americans first major museum survey, Backstroke of the West compiles multiple projects from Michael Rakowitz focusing on the often-violent interactions between his homeland in Iraq and his upbringing in the U.S. All of Rakowitzs work attempts to help viewers examine their complicit relationship to the political world and displays the inherent link between hospitality and hostility.
Be sure to check out the included project The invisible enemy should not exist, an ongoing commitment from Rakowitz to recreate to scale everything looted from the Iraqi National Museum.
And Star Wars fans can indulge in an inside joke while viewing the massive lightsaber sculpture: backstroke of the west is actually a mistranslation of revenge of the Sith from a Chinese bootleg copy of the film.
Erie Canal MuseumHidden Perspectives: Womens Lives on the Erie Canal

(Syracuse, NY; September 20, 2017  November 5, 2017)

Its the 200th anniversary of the Erie Canal in New York this year, and what better way for the Erie Canal Museum to honor it than with an exhibit focusing on a little-known part of canal history: the lives of the women impacted by its presence.
The exhibit will show photos and stories of women who worked or traveled on the canal, as well as those for whom its construction spurred a political awakening.
Ghost hunters, take note: the museum is in the last remaining Weighlock Building in the country and is reportedly haunted, with sightings of see-though children, arguing men, and a woman killed on the site of a current museum display.
Zeitz MOCAAGrand Opening

(Cape Town, South Africa; Opens September 22, 2017)

With about 80 galleries and more than 100,000 square feet, the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa will be the worlds largest contemporary art museum dedicated to work from the African diaspora.
The museums grand opening is September 22 to 25, occupying a carved-out space inside a nine-floor historic grain silo complex thats been abandoned since 1990.
Other facilities in the museum include a sculpture garden on the roof, a bookshop, a restaurant, a bar, reading rooms, and storage and conservation areas.
Also contained within the museum are several educational centers, furthering the museums mission to offer a comprehensive learning experience, covering costumes, photography, art, performing arts, the moving image, and excellence in curating.
The Witte Museum2theExtreme: MathAlive!
(San Antonio, TX; September 30, 2017  January 7, 2018)

In a truly interactive exhibit, MathAlive!
explores how math is applied in life through six different galleries.
Visitors will be able to take part in special activities in each of the themed galleriesvideo games, sports, design, music, entertainment, space, and robotics.
Try your hand at programming and controlling NASAs Mars rover Curiosity, or edit your own animated movie, or even design and play your own video game.
In the sports gallery, you can even compete against your family and friends in a simulated mountain bike race.
Denver Museum of Nature and ScienceUltimate Dinosaurs

(Denver, CO; October 6, 2017  January 15, 2018)

When Pangaea first separated, it split into two pieces: Laurasia in the north and Gondwana in the south.
Ultimate Dinosaurs explores dinosaurs endemic to the southern landmass, which eventually became Africa, Madagascar, and South America.
The dinosaurs there evolved into some of the largest and most bizarre that existedlike the Nigersaurus, which is believed to have had 10 rows of teeth in its mouth at any given time.
Visitors to the exhibit will see 17 skeletons, plus casts and fossils, augmented reality features, and a chance for kids to play paleontologist with a fossil prep lab and interactive microscopes.
Indianapolis Museum of ArtCity as Canvas: New York City Graffiti from the 70s and 80s

(Indianapolis, IN; October 7, 2017  January 28, 2018)

Even though Philadelphia can claim to be the birthplace of graffiti as we know it, New York City really took hold in the 60s to make graffiti something to behold.
City as Canvas celebrates that New York connection to tagging, chronicling its history from creative expression dubbed vandalism to a complete form of art.
More than 100 pieces will be on display from pioneering graffiti artists like Future 2000, Lady Pink, and Zephyr.
Dont miss the collection of black books, a little known aspect of a graffiti artists worktheyre more or less sketchbooks that the artists used to try out new styles and new designs before heading out to tag.
Stop by on October 6 as well; some of the artists featured in the exhibit will be hosting graffiti workshops.
The Dali MuseumDali and Schiaparelli

(St. Petersburg, FL; October 18, 2017  January 14, 2018)

The first exhibition of its kind, Dali and Schiaparelli focuses on the creative relationship that friends Salvador Dali and Elsa Schiaparelli had in Paris.
It will feature clothes, accessories, objects, artwork, and photos from their time working together.
Schiaparelli, at the forefront of womens fashion in the 20s and 30s, said that her dresses were inventions rather than designs, shirking the traditional ideas at the time of womens clothing.
She regularly collaborated with Dali, incorporating the fantastical and dreamlike aspects of his work into her clothes.
To kick off the exhibit, a haute couture fashion show is planned for October 14.
The British LibraryHarry Potter: A History of Magic

(London, UK; October 20, 2017  February 28, 2018)

Its been 20 years since Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone was published, and to celebrate, the British Library is hosting an exhibit to explore the magic of the series.
Aside from some of J.K. Rowlings original drafts and illustrator Jim Kays original drawingsboth on display for the first timevisitors will get to experience the actual history behind different aspects of the book.
Theres a 16th-century scroll that explains how to create a philosophers stone.
You can also see a representation of what the night sky looked like to medieval astronomers.
And if you cant make it to London, dont worry; the exhibit will be coming to New York in October 2018.
Remai ModernFaces of Picasso: The collection selected by Ryan Gander

(Saskatoon, Canada; Opens October 21, 2017)

To celebrate Remai Moderns introduction to the art museum world, the museum will launch with an exhibit called Field Guide that displays work from the collection in addition to contemporary projects from current artists.
Part of Field Guide will be the first showing of the museums vast collection of Picasso linocuts (it's the most comprehensive in the world) in a curated display called Faces of Picasso: The collection selected by Ryan Gander.
The two exhibits will work together, the Picasso linocuts on the walls surrounding the bulk of an installation called Field Work, and Field Work will contain a stack of artist Ryan Ganders drawings of every linocut the museum has.
Illinois Holocaust Museum and Education CenterAbe & Ida Cooper Survivor Stories Experience

(Skokie, IL; Opens October 29, 2017)

Starting October 29, the Illinois Holocaust Museum and Education Center will debut a first-in-the-world experience in its new Take A Stand Center: the Abe & Ida Cooper Survivor Stories Experience.
The experience is interactive, using 3D holography and recordings of Holocaust survivors, who the digitally show on stage to discuss their experience and answer questions from the audience using voice recognition technology in a simulated conversation.
Thirteen Holocaust survivors joined together to make this permanent exhibition a reality, seven from the local Chicagoland area around the museum.
Also opening in the new Take A Stand Center will be the Goodman Upstander Gallery, highlighting 40 people throughout history and present day who have fought against injustice, and the interactive Take A Stand Lab that helps guests learn how to get involved and helps them to be heard.
Museum of Contemporary Art (MOCA)  Spectrosynthesis: Asian LGBTQ Issues and Art Now

(Tapei, Taiwan; Opens September 9, 2017 - November 5, 2017)

Spectrosynthesis: Asian LGBTQ Issues and Art Now is the first major survey of LGBTQ-themed art to open anywhere in Asia.
The show features 50 works by 22 modern and contemporary artists produced over the last 50 years.
The curators chose works, collected around a central theme, "the spectrum of light"  a reference to the LGBTQ rainbow symbol, that highlight the diversity of cultural experiences within the LGBTQ community.
The art touches on themes such as identity, stigmatization, lust and social oppression.
My youngest daughter often asks me to tell her about the day when, pregnant with her, I was riding to work on the subway and wondering whether she would be a boy or a girl.
Just at that moment, I looked up and saw a deliveryman holding a bouquet of pink balloons and a sign that said, Its A Girl.
Now, both my daughter and I understand that genetics determined her sex months earlier, but its fun for us to have a story that imagines the universe magically speaking to me.
When I found out that she was a girl during an ultrasound, and an amniocentesis confirmed the result, the confirmation wasnt exciting.
And thats a story she never asks me to repeat.
So I am not surprised at the appeal of gender-reveal parties, where expectant parents deliver the doctors pronouncementno peekingto a bakery, with instructions to make a pink or blue cake or cupcakes.
During the party, they cut the cake or give out the cupcakes, and the color hidden under the frosting reveals to everyone whether the couple is expecting a boy or a girl.
The party is suspenseful (revealing a secret), egalitarian (everyone finds out at once), and delicious (cake!
)a perfect afternoon.
Unheard of a decade or two ago, gender-reveal parties are the latest manifestation of the conflict between modern technological pregnancy and its ancient legacy of mystery.
That this all plays out through pink and blue cake speaks to the peculiar anxieties and ironies of our time.
Now that almost every detail about pregnancy can be known, its hard to imagine a time when carrying a child was a hidden, and private, affair.
Prior to the 19th century, the only way to be sure a woman was pregnant was at the quickening, when she could feel movement in her belly.
This moment was the womans alone to experience, and she had the power to share her news or not.
Women could withhold this information or adjust its timing in order to protect information about who the father was.
In the Middle Ages, piss prophets used a combination of appeals to the divine and examination of a womans urine to create a precursor to the pregnancy test.
But before there were ultrasounds and genetic testing, the sex of the baby was revealed only at birth.
Of course, once people knew they were pregnant, they attempted to predict sex.
Even today old wives tales endure, focusing on the position of the belly bump (low: boy) or the cravings a woman has (sweet things: girl) or how much morning sickness a woman experiences (more sick: girl).
Mystery accompanied fault-finding.
Until recently women had limited legal power or autonomy over their bodies and shouldered blame for their child not meeting social expectations.
During the Renaissance, the theory of maternal impressions warned that every thought a woman had affected an unborn baby.
If a child was born with abnormalities, those were thought to have been caused by the mothers thoughts.
Some cultures believed that women were able to control the babys sex.
Even today, women are still blamed for birthing the wrong gender, though we now understand that the babys sex is determined by the sperm.
The moment of birth for women often wasand still might bea frightening reckoning with others expectations as well as a moment in which mysteries were solved.
Would she produce the required heir?
Would she produce the required sex?
Would she even survive childbirth?
With scientific advances of the 20th century, the puzzling, worrisome, and solitary experience of pregnancy gave way to a glut of information, advice, images, and a new set of expectations.
Some developments gave women control.
The history of the pregnancy test shows how this technology allowed women to confirm pregnancy earlier than ever before and privately make decisions about it.
Scientific advances also meant more opportunities to connect with an unborn child.
Fetal ultrasounds, originally used only to diagnose problem pregnancies, have become emotional occasions during which parents bond with their fetus and even discover its sex.
Some parents pay for private 3D-ultrasound viewings solely so that they can look at their baby.
But the medicalization of pregnancy, which Robbie Davis-Floyd refers to as the technocratic model of birth, led to power shifts.
Women actually lost control over their bodies as the people around them became fixated on the growth of their fetus.
Machines and tests used by doctors replaced instinct and feedback from mothers to assess the progress of pregnancy.
Furthermore, expectant parents are expected to share ultrasound pictures with the rest of the world, even to upload them to social media sites like Facebook or to post online videos.
Television programs use ultrasounds as a form of entertainment.
Social pressures on women ask them to examine the air they breathe, monitor what they eat, and measure their levels of stress, all in the name of having a healthier fetus.
While some of this research may lead to healthier babies, it also brings increased judgment of, and restrictions on, pregnant women.
The medicalized pregnancy has also become a commoditized one.
Outside experts have come to dominate pregnancy advice.
Hotels sell baby-making packages, gyms offer pregnancy yoga and massages, and an entire market is devoted to products supposedly educating the fetus in the womb.
Amidst all these pressures there has arisen a greater desire for rituals, like belly-bump photo sessions, belly tattoos, and elaborate baby showers.
The months of pregnancy are now divided into smaller and smaller segments, each filled with invented customs.
The gender-reveal party has become yet another ritual, and a way to retrieve the mysteries of pregnancy.
If, during the age of the mysterious pregnancy, a pregnant woman had little power but much knowledge about their bodyknowledge that others depended on them to revealgender-reveal parties reclaim the privilege of revelation along with some control.
Parents can orchestrate these parties, choose their rituals, and plan for the future with the knowledge that they are likely to survive childbirth.
The ritual includes birth partners, allowing them to share in this womb time, just as they expect to be involved in egalitarian parenting after the birth.
But the logic behind gender-reveal parties contradicts many of our current sensibilities about gender.
First, theres the name: it should really be called a sex-reveal party, since sex is a function of ones DNA.
These parties conflate sex and gender.
As the French philosopher Simone de Beauvoir said, One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.
A persons gender identity may not match the sex they were assigned at birth, and gender roles are culturally constructed notions.
Gender-reveal parties thus contrast with recent progress in the United States, including more rights for transgender people and those who are gender nonconforming.
Many families today wish for unlimited possibilities for their children, regardless of sex or gender.
Some parents intentionally choose names that do not signal male or female.
They cheered when McDonalds announced that they would stop asking children if they wanted a boy or girl toy with their Happy Meal.
Some parents buy from fashion lines that market gender-neutral clothing for infants.
A ritual that emphasizes the importance of sex or gender seems to go against such progress, especially with oddly anachronistic themes like Little Man or Little Miss and Bows or Bowties.
Moreover, the new ritual of the gender-reveal party might offer women only pseudo-power.
When others are brought into pregnancynot only doctors and friends and relatives but also cake decorators and party plannerswomen cede control over whats happening in their bodies.
Projecting human attributes onto the fetus makes it easier to imagine that it is a baby at an earlier stage, which also shifts power away from a womans control of her own body.
Still, the desire to create new rituals surrounding birth makes sense to me.
When we have constant information at our fingertips and share our innermost thoughts with others, the idea of having one aspect of life where we control the mystery and create suspense for others is seductive.
The birth story I share with my daughter is special in part because it provides us with an origin story of our own.
Humans need stories, myths, and rituals along with our neonatal vitamins and ultrasounds.
Once weve cut the cut the cake and publicly declared its a girl or its a boywhat do we want that to mean?
Whats troubling about the gender-reveal party is that its a new ritual that doesnt take us forward.
Rituals that recreate the mysteries of the past must remember the history of struggles for the hard-won freedoms and empowerment that came with them.
A ritual that sexes and genders a person before they are born places limits rather than offers possibilities on who they may become.
Laura Tropp, Ph.D. is Professor of Communication and Media Studies at Marymount Manhattan College.
She is the author of A Womb with A View: Americans Growing Public Interest in Pregnancy and the co-editor of Deconstructing Dads: Changing Images of Fathers in Popular Culture.
Flying above the straits of Taiwan, you may see something strange: a massive set of curved lines running along the shore forming two hearts nestled together.
And you'll notice others as well570 of these constructions dot the coast in the Penghu area.
Though reminiscent of artistic earthworks, these stunning structures are actually ancient tidal fish traps, used for centuries in Taiwan to feed the local community.
The most famous of these traps, the Twin-Heart Weir, has become one of the most photographed destinations in Taiwan, particular for couples, and though originally built as a anchovy killing field, has become a symbol of love.
Other unique shapes include one that looks like a giant heart-shaped pendant on a necklace, and another structure that looks like two outstretched legs.
Penghu's collection of intact tidal traps is the largest anywhere in the world.
Back in the late 1600s and early 1700s, fishing in Taiwan was a major enterprise.
Fisherman were known to catch silver-stripe round herring, Indian anchovy, greater amberjack and more, in hauls that could reach up to 1,300 pounds.
They werent pulling in these massive catches with a rod or a net, thoughthey were were capturing them in these elaborate stone weirs.
The biggest ones, stretching nearly two miles long and about 900 feet wide, took decades to complete.
The walls of the weirs were built such that the sea level at high tide would surpass the walls of the weir, a spokesperson at Taiwans Fisheries Agency explained.
Fish would swim into an opening at one end, then when the tide went out, the fish would become trapped within the walls, which would then be higher than the ebbing sea level.
Once the tide receded, local fisherman would walk the stone walls of the weir and catch fish with nets, spears, baskets, and other means.
Constructing the weirs was often a family project or one for the whole village, with one person in charge of the project who would select co-builders and delegate tasks.
The group would observe tides over time and decide where to build the weir based on water flow and currents.
Then, everyone would work together, stacking rocks to stop water from encroaching on the build site, lugging basalt to the spot to construct the main shape of the weir, and filling in holes with coral and limestone.
Many of the weirs incorporated curves, taking advantage of a known tendency for fish to turn around when they hit a curved surface.
The fish will keep turning, continually hitting curves in the weir, and ultimately get stuck.
For many centuries, stone weirs were considered an ideal method for catching fish, not only because of the sheer volume that would come in with the tide, but also because they created diverse tidal pools.
The weir enclosures would foster an abundance of oyster, shrimp, crab and anemones.
Although stone weirs were not unique to Taiwanin fact, they popped up throughout the world, though primarily concentrated around Pacific island locationsPenghu has the densest existing collection.
Use of the weirs gradually began to decline near the end of the 1950s with the introduction of motorized fishing boats and enhanced fishery technology, plus a decreasing supply of fish, but their remains still dot the coastlines of Taiwan today.
At present, [the only] counties or cities in Taiwan that still preserve the stone fish weirs are Penghu County, Taoyuan City and Miaoli County, the Fisheries spokesperson said.
The stone fish weirs are most concentrated in Penghu County for the demonstration and promotion of its local fisheries culture.
At one point, weirs existed all over Taiwan's coast, but many were destroyed by nature or fell into disrepair.
In Penghu, the community maintains an effort to keep them in good shape as a tribute to its cultural practices and heritage.
In fact, Penghu continues to hold fishing demonstrations with these ancient engineering marvels today in a festival called the Penghu Stone Weir Festival.
The biggest cluster of the weirs is around Jibei and Qimei Islands in Penghu, where 88 can be found close together.
Some can only be visited by boat, as many are on island coasts.
In 1984, Charlie Papazian authored The Complete Joy of Homebrewing, a landmark text (now in its fourth edition) that laid out for the first time in simple, straightforward terms, the basic formula for making beer in the comfort of ones home.
Papazian soon became the guardian of an entire generation of brewers and his calming mantra, Relax, Dont Worry, Have a Homebrew, set the cultural stage for beer to become more than just a beverage in modern America, but a way of life.
The last few decades have witnessed the number of breweries in the United States jumpor rather, skyrocketfrom a meager 100 the year his book was published to just over 5000, as reported last spring by the Brewers Association (an organization Papazian himself helped found).
But while nothing jostles ones beard hairs like a freshly poured Northern California IPA, this barley-based beverage had to travel a long way before it became the drink of choice for tatted, plaid-wearing urbanites across the nation.
The oldest proto-beers trace back, not to Europe and our colonial forefathers, but to the Fertile Crescent, and one of the first known written mentions of it in the 4th century BCE come from the travel diary of the ancient Greek mercenary, Xenophon, as he wandered across what was then, quite coincidentally, Papazians ancestral homeland: Armenia.
Though ethnicity has never been a motivating factor in Papazians beer obsession, one must admit, it is rather serendipitous.
And even more so now that the very movement hes helped spearhead in America, filled with DIY microbreweries and brewpubs, has finally made its way full circle.
As remarkable as it sounds, Armenia might just be both one of the oldest and one of the youngest nations in the history of beer making.
Certainly, much has transpired since Xenophon sipped on that strange barley concoction in the Armenian highlands over two thousand years ago, but unfortunately for beer, the well-documented history of wine in the region usually takes center-stage.
The little we know about Armenias historic brewing habits unfolds primarily within the last two hundred years and, like most then-and-now type stories in former Soviet countries, it is defined by the rise and fall of that peculiar Russian breed of socialism we call the U.S.S.R.
In the late-19th century, when we start to see the first mentions of beer factories in Armenia, beer was emerging as a lucrative industry in the Russian Empire.
Factories were opened in Alexandrapol (now Gyumri) and Kars, areas which had historically inherited European brewing techniques from medieval monks and which were also well-disposed to growing local ingredients, like barley.
While Kars is no longer part of modern-day Armenia, the beer factory in Gyumri still exists and though it operates out of a newer building, the historic factory from 1898 has been preserved and curious, beer history buffs visiting the area can take tours.
In Yerevan, the most famous factory was Zanga Brewery, located in the picturesque Hrazdan River Gorge.
Founded in 1892 by Harutyun Avedyants, the son of a successful factory owner.
Zanga produced only one style of beer, a traditional German Bock.
For a while, business was good and the brand achieved some international success, both across the Russian Empire and in Europe (even winning some awards in Naples and Milan).
In 1917, Lenins communists seized power and all major factories were nationalized.
When Armenia became an S.S.R., Avedyants, like many other successful entrepreneurs, lost his business.
Without the specialized expertise required for beer production, however, the business began to go under.
So, on March 1st, 1924, in a sobering twist of fate, Avedyants was hired as an employee of the very factory he had founded over thirty years earlier.
After his death in 1926, the factory closed and there would not be beer production in Armenia again until after World War II.
These were the dark ages for beer in the U.S.S.R. Alcoholism was a huge problem affecting worker productivity, so the state began actively discouraging alcohol consumption.
When beer making finally did return to Armenia in the 1950s, it did so with few innovations.
Picking up where they left off, beers made in the traditional German pilsner style, popular in the Russian Empire, came to dominate industry.
That, combined with anti-drinking propaganda, resulted in an extremely homogeneous market in which any variety from outside the Iron Curtain had to be procured through an underground black market.
A network of subversive beer drinkers emerged, gathering in Soviet Armenias watering holes.
The good stuff was possible to find  for the right price  if you had the right acquaintances.
Novelist Gurgen Khanjyan recalls these days nostalgically, The old Yerevan beer lovers were not small in numbers We used to talk about everything, but there was a sense that an invisible eye was watching us.
The beer lover of an independent country is different.
He enjoys beer differently, freely... unafraid, uninhibited

So while Americans in the 1980s were busy heeding the calming mantra of Charlie Papazian (Relax, Dont Worry, Have a Homebrew!)
and opening their hearts and minds to the endless possibilities being created by the growing craft beer movement, Soviet citizens were scuttering through dimly lit alleys, risking their freedoms for a highly-coveted lager from nearby Czech Republic.
Naturally, a more liberal market brought about by the fall of the Soviet Union and Armenias independence has done wonders for the alcohol industry in Armenia.
According to a report from 2015, consumption in 2014 was 24.5 million liters of beer  a figure which is up 32% from 2010.
But while these numbers sound promising, 80% of beer consumed in Armenia is produced by only a handful of mainstream breweries who offer a generic product, which is affordable, but deviates little from the pilsners of Soviet times.
Fortunately, 2012 signified the beginning of a cultural shift with the opening of several new beer-oriented establishments in the city.
Back then, there was a stereotype that breweries were mostly places for men, observes founder Armen Ghazaryan, founder of one of Armenias first craft brewpubs, Beer Academy, So from the very first day we focused on being a family place.
Ghazaryans establishment has evolved from an uncertain novelty to a successful business with a loyal following from locals of all ages.
But craft beer as a concerted cultural movement in Armenia didnt take off until the spring of 2016 with the launch of Dargett.
Founded by two brothers, Aren and Hovhannes Durgarian, Dargett is a brewpub that has embarked on countless firsts since it opened: the first IPA made on Armenian soil, the first cider made from Armenian apples, the first fruit beer in Armenia (a lovely ale infused with Armenias most abundant and symbolic fruit: apricot).
Everything they touch turns to first.
The variety Dargetts founders strive for is impressive, even for longtime veterans of brewing; around twenty styles are rotating on tap at any given point, all of which have been crafted on site in the restaurants downstairs dining area where behemoth, steel tanks transported from Italy last year are visible to diners behind large panes of glass.
Im sure they [mainstream brewers in Armenia] think were nave lunatics, says Aren Durgarian, Because why brew in variety when theyre selling millions of just one style?
But despite this skepticism, Dargett and Beer Academy have both evolved into highly successful businesses with plans for expansion, even while serving what might arguably be the worlds most affordable craft beer at less than $2 a pop.
We need to be able to reach young people who may not have access to this product if it were too expensive," the Durgarians explain, "We want them to test our beer, since the youth is the main component in any cultural revolution.
The price is all the more surprising since starting a brewery in a country like Armenia is a very expensive and risky undertaking.
Unlike brewers in the U.S., with access to developed supply chains and expedited shipping models, the Durgarians say they must order their ingredients from abroad at least a year in advance.
A local supply chain, while not out of the question, just isnt realistic right now.
But what is an Armenian beer if its made with all foreign ingredients?
And what did Xenophons mysterious barley drink of yesteryear taste like?
One can only hope that consumers growing curiosity will someday soon provide the incentive for answering these questions.
Color and texture punctuate sound in Andy Thomas' mind.
Thomas, a mixed-media artist living in Melbourne, Australia, doesn't actually have synesthesia, a condition in which one sense stimulates another.
"For me it's really just an overactive imagination," he says.
But that doesn't dull the sensation.
"I close my eyes and I see these things very vividly in my mind," he says.
For his latest video, entitled "Visual Sounds of the Amazon," Thomas translated the soundscape of the rainforest into visual form.
Each recording imagines a tropical bird call as a pulsating mass floating in air.
Chirps radiate vibrant flashes of light; trills snake out as twisting ropes.
With these colorful pirouetting shapes, viewers experience the rainforest in an unexpected way.
Thomas hopes that in doing so they gain a greater appreciation for the plight of this spectacularly diverse environment.
The Amazon hosts the greatest number of species on the planet.
But it's in trouble.
"Market forces, population pressure and infrastructure advances are continuing to pry open the Amazon rainforest," according to the World Wildlife Fund website.
It's a story told time and time again.
And as Thomas aptly notes, people tend to stop listening at the hint of this 'save the rainforest' refrain.
"What I've realized is that people have compassion fatigue these days," says Thomas.
"They hear about the destruction of rainforests and decimation of species across the world, and they become numb to it."
He hopes that through his art he can revive compassion for these wild spaces.
Thomas' work takes on this task by combining two fields that are often at odds with one another: technology and nature.
Though technology can be used to help the environment, its negative consequences are just as potentfrom our gadget-driven energy consumption to habitat destruction as a result of industrialization.
According to his website, Thomas wants his work to be a symbolic representation of natures collision with technology.
Interestingly, the 41-year-old artist found his inspiration at a party.
"I used to go to a lot of dance parties in Melbourne here in the 90s," he says.
"When I first went to one outdoors, I heard electronic sounds in nature and I was quite surprised at how well they went togetherthese really dark electronic sounds in the beautiful gum trees."
He began to use a combination of digital technology and watercolors to create fantastical abstract images, bursting with color.
These experiments eventually led him to 3D animation.
"That was the perfect medium for me really," he says.
With animation he can create a more immersive experience for his viewers, combining natural sounds with detailed, moving abstractions.
In 2010, Thomas visualized his first natural sounds, those of a whale and the Australian magpie, a striking black and white bird with a warbling multi-toned call.
He has always paid particular attention to birds songs, and after animating the sounds, he was hooked.
"Birds are amazing creatures, they're so prolific and so diverse," he says, his passion evident in his words.
"To think that there's so many different [varieties of] one creature is quite wonderful."
Six years later, Thomas traveled to Finland on an artist residency program where he recorded bird sounds every day, animating the calls on his laptop.
Before he left for the program, he teamed up with Reynier Omena Junior, a biologist and ornithologist living in Manaus, Brazil, and the duo began plotting Thomas' project in Brazil.
"The Amazon trip was done on a shoestring budget," he says.
But the pair made it work.
Omena had a small speaker he used to play previously recorded bird calls to attract different species.
And then Thomas would record using a hand-held microphone and a digital recorder.
"The birds were incredible," says Thomas.
"Even in the streets of a small town you'd see toucans flying past and macaws."
The duo tromped through the heat, humidity and clouds of mosquitoes, recording some 50 birds in just seven days.
"There are so many [bird calls] that sometimes it's hard to isolate which ones are whicheven with an ornithologist to help you," says Thomas.
On one occasion they trekked out to find the rare bird of paradise known as the Guianan cock-of-the-rock, a vibrantly orange masterpiece of a bird that sports a thin mohawk of feathers over its crest.
"It was a real privilege to see this bird in the wild," he says.
Since his return, he has been working to process and convert the many recorded calls to imagery.
Among other programs, Thomas uses the animation software Houdini to bring sounds into sight.
Unlike Adobe Photoshop, which is a layer-based program (effects are applied to a background like a stack of pages), Houdini is a node-based software.
This means that the final image is a product of the interaction of a network or web of effects.
Using this program, Thomas creates an abstract form for each creature and layers it with a series of effectsselected as he thinks about the birds' coloring, nests, habitat and even diet.
Many of the animations focus on the male birds' coloring, since they are often the ones to sport the most outlandish tones and patterns.
Then he feeds in the animal recording, which activates particular parts of this complicated framework, converting the sequence of sounds into a pulsing, writhing burst of color.
Though the bird calls are clearly the featured sound, every tick and trill in the background of the recording influences the final shape.
Each clip of sound, which lasts anywhere from a few seconds to half a minute, can take days to complete.
"There's no magic button that creates this stuff.
I'm actually sitting there and sculpting these things bit by bit," Thomas says.
Now finally complete, "Visual Sounds of the Amazon" features abstract forms representing the call of a range of Amazonian birds and a few insects.
The video opens with a call from the chestnut-bellied seedeater, a small blue-gray bird whose breast is emblazoned with a swath of burnt orange.
Thomas' visual is a swath of red-orange, with each rapid twitter accompanied by a flash of white, gray or black, reminiscent of fluttering wings.
The shape evolves almost faster than the eye can take it in to keep up with the quick changes of the call.
The piece ends on the song of the musician wren, a brown-orange bird speckled in black and white.
Thomas' visualization seems to play off the birds eerie, futuristic sound.
The abstract forms dance around a small glowing orb as hazy blue pulses of light intensify with the call.
The video is currently screening at Render, a festival in Lima, Peru.
Thomas hopes to team up with conservation organizations and travel to other locations, so that he might bring more of nature's sounds to sight.
But hes so absorbed in the project, a lot more planning must be done to make these trips a reality.
"I have to drag myself away from my computers and get busy," he jokes.
Mother-son relationships can be complicated.
But the one depicted in Ragnar Kjartanssons Me and My Mother is also a little shocking.
Related Content Why a Woman Is Playing the Same Guitar Chord Over and Over Again at the Hirshhorn

In the filmed performance piece, the latest acquisition announced Monday by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, a 24-year-old Kjartansson, still in art school, stands in a blue dress shirt as his mother, recognized in their native Iceland as the accomplished actress Gurn smundsdttir, hauls off and spits on him.
There is silence, and a dramatic pause in which they exchange gazes, and she does so again and again.
Every five years since the first video in 2000, Kjartansson has repeated the action in the same locationbefore a bookshelfand added on to the film.
When the fifth iteration is shot in 2020, it will come to the Hirshhorn as well, as will all future versions.
When it was first shown at the Hirshhorn last year as part of the artists first major mid-career survey, organized with the Barbican in London, it stopped traffic.
Some people were amused, some people were shocked, said Stphane Aquin, the museum's chief curator.
Seeing someone being spit on and not reacting is not something were used to.
Its violent.
Seeing a mother spit on her son is incredibly violent.
Its an act of rejection and dismissal and disapproval that is extreme.
And then, how can you still not laugh?
Because hes not moving in any kind of way.
The 20-minute video, shot in 2000, 2005, 2010 and 2015, provided the popular overviews conclusion.
We thought we had to end with a bit of punk rock, Kjartansson said of the piece when the show opened.
Everything is so serious you have to be lighthearted about it, he told Smithsonian.com, as his mother spat away on the screen behind him.
Art is so serious, its too serious to be serious about.
The Hirshhorn will be the only institution to own the piece in its entirety, Aquin says.
For the 2015 update, smundsdttir, now 81, wrote about the process for the i8 Gallery in Reykjavk.
At first, The mother blushed with gratitude at having the opportunity to participate, smundsdttir said.
But she became puzzled when I was told to spit on my own beloved son over and over.
The cameras were set up, and everything went according to planI spat and spat, smundsdttir said.
The mother who had drenched her son in spit found this a bit funny, but what did it matter?
Performances were tightened five years later, she said.
By then, people had started taking their roles seriously.
And repeating and updating the action every five years, she said, the exercise has become a family tradition.
Not that its been easy.
It is trying for a mother and an actress with a 50-year acting career to spit on her own sonthe son who has never been anything but a true blessing and has always made her laugh, smundsdttir concluded.
But the spitting image, she said, would never have existed had it not been for the enduring love and true respect they have for one another.
The work is at once humorous, absurd and violent, but what is clear is that the mother and son are resolute in their intimacy and mutual trust, agreed Leila Hasham, Barbican Art Gallery curator, in the catalog accompanying the 2016 exhibit.
Being raised in the theater ingrained in Kjartansson the notions of rehearsals, repression and presence that are seen in his other works as well, Hasham said.
"The series also engages us with the artists interest in the conflation of reality and fantasy as mother and son slip into their professional roles.
Therefore, the video piece reflects the core elements of Kjartanssons work, Aquin says.
Its both reality and make-believe, collapsed one on top of the other, he says.
Its reality and its make-believe.
Because his mother is his mother, its reality.
But because his mother is an actress, its a play.
Its art.
Its acted.
That theme carries through much of the rest of Kjartanssons work, including the epic nine-screen music performance The Visitorsthe music and feeling it elicited from viewers were real, but seeing each camera snap on and off at the end of the hour showed how much of it was also artifice.
There are so many other great works by Ragnar, but because of the foundational nature of this one and its radicalityI mean, this is about as radical as it getswe thought it would make sense to purchase, Aquin says.
Everyone remembers that piece.
Its unforgettable.
There are no immediate plans to put Me and My Mother on display.
Listen to this episode of Sidedoor , the Smithsonian podcast that explores behind-the-scenes stories from the Institution, for more about the history of the circus.
As a boy, Emil Otto Paul Braun, born in 1859 in a Prussian (now Polish) village, was renowned for his limberness and poise under pressure.
At first, Brauns athleticism was just for kicksno one could have expected his rise to international fame.
His father thought he was cut out for a quiet life in the priesthood.
But once a circus recruiter got ahold of him following a gymnastics meet, events were set in motion that wound up catapulting Braun, a.k.a.
Paul Cinquevalli, into the spotlight.
A teenage Cinquevalli was whisked to the city of Odessa on the Black Sea, where he was given a position as a trapeze artist.
Trapeze has always been dangerous, but it was especially so in the 19th century, when nets were by no means in common use.
Cinquevallis trapeze career proved to be ill-starred.
First, a freak tent collapse sent him falling onto an audience member, who was killed by the impact.
Then, later, Cinquevalli himself nearly died after a flying trapeze incident resulted in the fracture of numerous major bones in his body.
He was in a coma for a long time, recalls juggling historian Erik Aberg.
When he woke up, he couldnt be an acrobat anymore, so thats when he switched to juggling.
Gradually, Cinquevalli built a name for himself as an equilibrista performer marked by technical prowess in feats of balance, endurance and strength.
The relentless work ethic Cinquevalli had once applied to gymnastics he now turned to perfecting his wondrous dexterity.
He made his formal juggling debut in 1876, at the Zoological Gardens in St. Petersburg.
Cinquevallis ambition drew large crowds.
On one occasion, he is said to have juggled two plates with one hand and balanced a bucket atop a cane held in the other, all while employing a candle balanced on his forehead to light a cigarette, which he then smoked.
Soon, his skill brought him to London, where the Prince of Wales asked to inspect his props after a seemingly impossible feat of balancing involving a cue stick and several billiard balls.
The Prince found nothing, and Cinquevallis reputation only grew.
Known for juggling all sorts of disparately sized objects at the same time, Cinquevalli was a crowd-pleaser wherever he wentand he traveled far and wide.
England in particular became something of a home for him, though, so it was a shock and a trauma when audiences there turned on him as World War I rolled around.
The Brits didnt like the German sound of his given surname, and in no time the performer found himself persona non grata in his beloved London.
Demoralized and devastated in self-esteem, Cinquevalli retired meekly, and died of abrupt cardiac failure in 1918.
Though largely overlooked in current history books, Cinquevallia huge celebrity in his own timeremains a hero to elite practitioners of the craft of juggling, such as Cirque de Soleil star Thom Wall.
Juggling is one of the last true meritocracies thats out there, says Wall, and he is glad to be able to draw on the creative ambition of Paul Cinquevalli as he pushes himself to innovate.
At first glance, the pair of musicians honored jointly at the National Museum of American History this past Friday could not have appeared more different.
J. Ralph, the Big Apple-born composer and producer responsible for the haunting scores of such documentary films as Man on Wire and The Cove, had on a jaunty fedora, polka dot scarf, navy blazer, and ample wrist wear.
Sting, the legendary British rocker behind such modern classics as Roxanne and Desert Rose, was magisterial in a trim black suitone could almost picture him in his former role as a schoolteacher.
What soon became clear to everyone assembled, however, is that the two outwardly contrasting men share a deep philosophical bond: their mission revolves around the notion of music as a vehicle for ideas, and a means of positively shaping the world for future generations.
The first portion of the festivities was devoted to the artists generous donations to the Smithsonians permanent collection.
J. Ralph formally ceded eight annotated sheet music compositions, including Evolocean, an experimental full-orchestra composition which would make its world debut later on in the evening, and Empty Chair, his collaboration with Sting for the 2016 documentary film Jim: The James Foley Story.
Sting, for his part, relinquished possession of his prized black 1978 Fender Stratocaster, which he played at a 1981 Amnesty International event, toured with that same year, and recorded a number of his most famous songs onamong them Message in A Bottle.
David Skorton, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, opened proceedings by asserting that the embrace of music, and the arts more broadly, is at the core of the American History Museums ethos, vital for the preservation and celebration of our nations history.
Assuring his audience that music is a very important and growing part of what we do, Skorton spoke to the power of music to capture and immortalize aspects of our ephemeral humanity.
He saw this message embodied aptly in a Sting lyric: Like tears from a star / On and on the rain will say / How fragile we are.
Following this heartfelt introduction, John Troutman, curator of American music for the museum, pivoted to the two honorees, emphasizing their dedication to philanthropy, and to increasing public awareness of vital social issues.
Troutman reminded the crowd that the Smithsonian was the result of philanthropy, and that the diffusion of knowledgeone of its founding idealswould not be possible without the creativity and spirt of individuals like Sting and J. Ralph.
To Troutman, their work constitutes the finest art of all humanity: the giving art.
After signing his name on the dotted line of the donation paperwork, J. Ralph reflected on his and Stings work across the years.
Its marvelous when something as simple as paper and pen can change the world, he said.
On Stingwho was introduced to him by French high wire artist Philippe Petit, the subject of Man on WireRalph was effusive.
Ive never met an artist thats more selfless, he said.
Sting was in a wistful frame of mind.
He recalled purchasing the black Stratocaster at Mannys Music on 48th Street in New Yorkfor between $200 and $250.
With a laugh in his voice, he speculated that it would likely be worth a good deal more today.
He remembers fondly the concert he put on in 1981 for Amnesty International, which he terms the most civilized organization in the world.
Categorizing himself as a social activist, but first and foremost an entertainer, Sting called attention to a valuable lesson he had learned while training to become a schoolmaster.
You could never teach anyone anything unless you entertained them first, he said.
Raising awareness of important issues through the medium of entertainment is Stings stock-in-trade.
Following the donation ceremony, the audience broke for a reception, and J. Ralph and Sting spoke in a more intimate setting on the nature of their collaborative work.
Jim: The James Foley Story is a living memorial to the title American journalist, who put himself in harms way time and time again to bring humanitarian reporting to viewers everywhere, and who was tragically executed by ISIL kidnappers in Syria in 2014.
J. Ralph recalls discussing with the director of the film the concept of a spiritual of sorts, a hymn that would tie together the emotional undercurrents of Foleys narrative and embed itself in the consciousness of those watching.
They wanted to focus more on [Foleys] compassion and his bravery and his selflessness, rather than the loss.
Ralph thought that Sting would be the perfect man to bring aboard.
Because it required majesty and sensitivity and frailty, but also intelligence, Ralph said.
And he was going to be handling the lyrics.
Sting says he was lured to Ralphs Chinatown studio under false pretenses, to check out the building and Ralphs eclectic collection of music industry memorabilia.
I marveled at the studio, Sting recalls.
And then [Ralph] said, I want you to watch a movie.
I said, What is it?
And he said, Oh, its the Jim Foley story.
So I said, Okay, Ill watch it.
Watched the film, was devastated by it, Sting recalls, his voice still heavy now.
Then he laid it on me.
He said, Will you write the song?
Stings first reaction was that it was a hopelessly daunting proposition.
I said, No.
Cant do it.
I simply cant do it.
Im too emotionally charged, and I couldnt think of anything that wouldnt be mawkish.
Ralph wasnt so sure, though.
I knew he could do it, he says with a smile.
But I had to let him go through his process.
When Sting returned to his wife that night, the image that would anchor the songthat of an empty chair left out by a family in case their absent son should ever walk back through their doorcame to him, and he decided he might be equal to the task after all.
Until you find a metaphor, he says, theres no songit doesnt exist.
With the concept of the empty chair in place, though, he agreed to move forward with Ralph on the composition.
The two wound up situating the vocals outside of Stings traditional rangethe deep, throaty words of The Empty Chair stand in stark contrast to the 17-time Grammy winners usual airy strains.
I wanted it to be Jims voice rather than my own, Sting said.
We disappear to a certain extent.
The final portion of the evening featured a moderated onstage discussion with the two artists followed by a pair of auditory delights: J. Ralphs churning Evolocean, recorded by the London Symphony Orchestra and making its world premiere, and The Empty Chair, which Sting performed acoustically to a standing ovation.
J. Ralph spoke on Evolocean before it was played, pointing to the inherently surprising and experimental nature of the piece.
In the parlance of professional musicians, the composition is aleatoric, meaning that performers are not merely interpreting rigid sheet music, but are often deciding for themselves what notes to play and when based on written instructions from the composer and organic cues from their colleagues.
The piece transitions through six distinct phaseswith sprawling themes like birth, extinction and rebirthbut the exact implementation of Ralphs vision is, in many ways, left to chance.
Ralph even included his six-month-old daughter Theodora in the recording; her semi-random, emotional vocalizations lend the piece an eerie, driving undercurrent.
True to its namea portmanteau of evolution and oceanRalphs creation is ever-changing, and it captures the majesty and vastness of Earths oceans in just the way its composer hoped it would.
Sting, meanwhile, in addition to musing on the creative processhe likened the task of coming up with a new idea to that of tracking an elusive beast through the wildernessshared his thoughts on the intersectionality of the major social issues at play in the modern world.
In Stings view, the environmental issues his Rainforest Foundation Fund concerns itself with are intimately tied up with the ocean advocacy J. Ralph is promoting via his new composition, and both are linked to broader questions of human rights and fairness.
There is a fundamental commonness to the questions we are facing, he says.
They are universal in their humanity.
As far as that sleek 1978 Fender guitar is concerned, Sting hopes it will be allowed to breathe.
You cant just stick a guitar on a shelf and not play itit will die.
They are organic things that need to be touched.
In just the same way, the philanthropic philosophy that Sting and J. Ralph have been advocating across their artistic lives cannot simply be read about on placardsit must come to life through the active engagement of museum-goers.
We wanted to have something that could create discussion, J. Ralph says, provoke thought, and keep the conversation alive.
The father of the American shopping mall, the Austrian-born architect Victor Gruen, envisioned the mall as a sort of European-style town center for the American suburbs.
He saw malls as climate-controlled Main Streets, with post offices, supermarkets and cafes, set amidst larger complexes with schools, parks, medical centers and residences.
Youd hardly need to drive at all.
Gruen found cars repulsive.
But only part of Gruens vision caught on: the climate-controlled gray box, famous for encouraging car culture rather than stopping it.
In 1978, the elderly Gruen railed against what his idea had become.
I would like to take this opportunity to disclaim paternity once and for all, he said.
I refuse to pay alimony to those bastard developments.
They destroyed our cities.
Today, strolling around University Place in my hometown of Chapel Hill, North Carolina, Im struck by just how, well, Gruen-like it is.
In addition to the shops, many of which are local boutiques, theres a large 24-hour gym, a CrossFit studio, a beauty school, a local AM radio station, an outpost of the police departments community services division, and a childrens museum.
At one end, where the Belks department store used to be, is an enormous Southern gourmet foods emporium with a restaurant, a coffee shop and cooking classes.
On the other end, where the Dillards department store used to be, is a luxury movie theater, where you can get lobster rolls delivered right to your plush leather seat.
In the atrium, local students do their homework on comfy couches, taking advantage of free wifi.
On warm nights the crowds at the malls popular upscale taqueria spill onto the sidewalk, chatting and sipping margaritas.
This wasnt true a decade ago.
Then called University Mall, it was half empty and entirely depressing.
My mother refused to go there.
Too pathetic, she said.
The transformation thats taken place at University Place is just one example of how malls are changing across America.
While headlines tout the Death of the American Mall, the reality is more complex.
Malls are dying in some places, yes, their too-expensive-to-remove corpses littering the landscape.
But in other places malls are becoming lifestyle centers much like what Gruen envisioned.
And some are going beyond that, turning into entirely different things: apartment complexes, churches, schools.
Down the road, urban planners see even more uses: farms, performance venues, pop-up event spaces.
The decline, death and transformation of American malls has several causes.
Its certainly a function of online e-commerce shopping, says Chris Calott, an architect and professor of architecture at the University of California, Berkeley.
Thats been a major heat-seeking missile on the shopping mall.
Theres also simply far too much retail space in America.
Weve got more than double the square feet of retail space per person than Australia, and five times more than the UK.
Developers built at a manic rate from the 1990s through the mid-2000s, just as the internet was beginning to change the retail landscape.
Then the Great Recession hit.
Many mall staples like RadioShack, Payless, Abercrombie & Fitch and The Limited began to shutter all or many of their locations.
Calott estimates that 50 percent of the malls that operated during Americas peak mall years of the 1960s through 1980s will be gone within the next 5 years.
So many malls are already dead that theyve spawned a genre of photography Calott calls mall porn: creepy, elegiac pictures of decaying spaces, stopped escalators, dust-covered foot courts and algae-filled atrium fountains.
But malls' prospects vary widely depending on their classification.
Real estate research firm Green Street Advisors sorts malls into four gradesA, B, C and D, with pluses and minusesdepending on their productivity and the quality of their tenants.
A class A mall might bring well over $500 per square foot, while a class C mall might only do $250.
By most estimates there are about 300 class A malls in America, and more than 700 class B, C and D malls.
Class A malls are doing just fine.
According to a 2017 report from Green Street Advisors, high-productivity malls have doubled in value since the recession.
They tend to be located in wealthy areas, and to be built or rebuilt to meet contemporary shoppers' desires.
Just outside of Chapel Hill in the city of Durham is The Streets at Southpoint, a class A+ mall that opened in 2002.
Southpoint was deliberately designed for a Main Street vibe, taking visual inspiration from downtown Durham.
Its red brick faade is covered with faux-aged murals advertising imaginary old-timey businesses and products: Williamsons Bakery (Fresh Baked Goods by Master Baker!
), Kinston Toasted Corn Flakes.
The food court was designed to resemble the raw open space of the tobacco warehouses that once thrived in downtown Durham.
While most of the mall is enclosed, theres an outdoor pedestrian wing called Main Street, with fountains and benches and (fake) old-fashioned manhole covers.
Southpoint and University Mall are examplesone new, one repurposedof what Calott calls the newfangled lifestyle center.
The urban design conceit of a lifestyle center is that it is delivering that outdoor sense of community, that kind of urban, heterogeneous feeling, Calott says.
Its a recreation of a Main Street or a vibrant urban downtown.
This is a mall where people come not just for shopping, but for entertainment, food and socializing.
This is crucial, as shoppers no longer spend hours browsing the way they used to.
In the pre-internet days, youd go to a mall and youd go to 20 stores, says Ray Hartjen of RetailNext, a company that provides data analytics to retailers.
Those days are completely gone.
People come to the mall for two or three storesvery surgical shopping missions.
So malls need to find ways to keep shoppers hanging out on the premises.
Southpoint does this successfully, with shoppers stopping to watch the Music on Main Street concert series, attend in-store yoga at Lululemon or mill around outside the Cheesecake Factory, buzzers in hand.
On the other side of Durham is Northgate Mall.
Its classed as a C+/B- property.
When I was a kid, it was a bustling place, with classic 1990s stores like Express and Gap, and a popular indoor carousel.
Now its usually nearly empty.
Its Macys closed recently, and its other anchor, a Sears, is on life support.
Northgate hopes to follow the University Place model, reimagining itself as a mixed-use center with office space, a gym and a temporary outpost of the public library.
But other, similar class B, C and D malls are going even more radical.
Across America, dozens of malls have been transformed into churches.
In Grandville, Michigan, Mars Hill Bible Church took over an anchor store in the abandoned Grand Village Mall, nicknaming its enormous chapel The Hangar.
The aptly-named Church at the Mall occupies the 400,000 square-foot former Lakeland Mall in Lakeland, Florida.
A number of other megachurches have turned abandoned malls into full-service religious campuses.
Other malls, like the Euclid Square Mall in Euclid, Ohio, have had individual storefronts filled with dozens of small churches.
Medical centers are a popular repurposing, since they require lots of space and parking.
Schools are another burgeoning use.
Part of Austins dead Highland Mall is now a new branch of Austin Community College.
In Montgomery, Alabama, the old Montgomery Mall recently opened its doors as the Montgomery Preparatory Academy for Career Technology, which uses the large spaces as labs for teaching construction, carpentry and welding; across the mall, a city police and fire station occupy a former clothing store.
Other malls have become office space: In 2016, Google bought the Mayfield Mall, the oldest indoor mall in Northern California, which it uses as a satellite campus.
Rackspace, a web hosting company, turned San Antonios eerily defunct Windsor Park mall into its headquarters, nicknamed The Castle.
Ironically, Amazon, the site many credit with killing off the mall, is breathing life into at least one dead shopping center.
The site of Clevelands Randall Park Mall, at one point the largest in America, is set to become an Amazon fulfillment center, bringing some 2,000 jobs to the area.
Experts expect many former malls will become warehouses, distribution facilities and logistics centers over the next few years, as the need for industrial space rises and the need for retail space falls.
Many developers also salivate over the idea of turning malls into housing.
After all, theres way too much retail and too little housing (especially affordable housing) in many cities.
Though many projects have been conceptualized, only a few have been realized so far.
The most prominent example is Providence, Rhode Islands Arcade Providence, the oldest shopping mall in America, which has converted old retail space into affordable microapartments.
Calott is currently involved in a project to turn the department store of a dead mall into office space with housing on the roof.
But transforming spaces this radically is not easy, and schemes have not always gone well.
Some half-empty malls are trying wild ideas to fill space and attract crowds: dog runs, indoor vegetable gardens, wedding venues, even artificial wave machines for indoor surfing.
Others have tried becoming arts incubators, offering low rent to artists, galleries and performance venues.
Some malls, of course, will simply be torn down.
But this is an expensive proposition, Calott says, and will only happen when a city decides theres such value to the land it can afford the demolition.
In many rural areas and Rust Belt cities, abandoned malls will continue to decay in place.
The one place where traditional malls are still booming?
Here in Hong Kong, where I live most of the year, an enormous amount of daily living takes place in the confines of enormous high-rise shopping malls.
Malls have ice rinks, indoor playgrounds, concert venues, daycare centers.
Some of the citys best restaurants are in malls; theres no sense here that dining in a mall is dclass in the least.
The malls are also integrated into the citys structure such that they connect directly to apartment towers, offices and public transportation.
Part of this is due to the climate.
Here, and in places like Singapore and Dubai, the heat can be so oppressive its just easier to stay indoors.
Each Monday evening, I emerge from the subway directly into the mall complex at Tai Koo Shing.
I grab a tea at the Starbucks and go upstairs to one of the attached apartment towers, where I tutor a high schooler in English.
Afterwards I go back down, do my dinner grocery shopping at the supermarket in the mall basement, then get back on the train.
All without leaving the mall.
Its the quintessential mixed-use experience, no car necessary.
Would Victor Gruen have approved?
In June 2017, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo announced a US$1.6 billion project to transform New York Citys much-maligned Penn Station in hopes of restoring it to its former glory.
The original structure  an iconic example of the Beaux-Arts architectural style was destroyed in 1963 and replaced by a bleak, underground network of tunnels and walkways.
One entered the city like a god; one scuttles in now like a rat, architectural historian Vincent Scully Jr. lamented.
If theres a silver lining, the 1963 demolition did spur the formation of the New York City Landmarks Commission in 1965 and the passage of the National Historic Preservation Act.
Unfortunately, all cannot be salvaged.
Preservation efforts must be galvanized; they require mobilization, time and resources.
We reached out to five architecture professors and posed the following question: Whats one American structure you wish had been saved?
While their responses vary  from an unassuming home nestled in the suburbs of Boston to a monument of 19th-century wealth and glamour  none of the structures could resist the tides of decay, development and discrimination.
A mecca for black Chicago

Daniel Bluestone, Boston University

In 1943, when the storied, half-century-old Mecca apartment building in Chicagos South Side was about to be demolished, something extraordinary happened: The Illinois legislature passed a bill to preserve it.
Designed in 1891 by Edbrooke and Burnham, the 96-unit Mecca immediately captured the publics imagination.
It was Chicagos first residential building with a landscaped courtyard open to the street, a design that fused two seemingly incompatible ideals: to build densely while preserving and cultivating the natural landscape.
In the late 19th century, Chicagos tenement reformers had demanded more light and fresh air for the citys apartments; they wanted small parks and playgrounds to be able to dot the citys swelling neighborhoods.
The Meccas innovative design was a paean to these progressive concerns.
The complex had two atria with skylights that flooded the interior with light.
Residents accessed their apartments via open galleries that encircled the atria, with railings that featured foliated ironwork.
This form  the courtyard within an apartment complex  inspired a hugely popular Chicago vernacular tradition.
In the early 20th century, the Mecca was enveloped by the South Sides expanding Black Belt.
Between 1912 and 1913, the complexs occupancy changed from overwhelmingly white to completely African-American.
The massing of black residents in the iconic building inspired residents and artists to view the building as an symbol of black Chicago.
South Side blues bars improvised the Mecca Flat Blues, which were tales of love and heartbreak, while poet Gwendolyn Brooks memorialized the building with her poem In the Mecca.
By the 1930s, officials at the adjacent Armour Institute (later Illinois Institute of Technology) grew concerned about their ability to attract students and faculty to a campus located in the heart of the black community.
In 1938 they bought the Mecca, planning to swiftly demolish it in order to create a buffer between town and gown.
Illinois Governor Dwight Green vetoed the legislation that would have preserved the Mecca, and in 1952  after years of legal wrangling and community protest  the courts allowed the demolition of an architectural and cultural icon to proceed.
The only consolation is that it was replaced by Mies van der Rohes famed Crown Hall, now home to IITs architecture school.
A Fifth Avenue palace

Carol A. Willis, Columbia University; Founding Director, The Skyscraper Museum

Many New Yorkers are familiar with the iconic Waldorf Astoria, which sits on Park Avenue.
But they might be surprised to learn that this is the second iteration of the luxury hotel.
The original was located along Manhattans fashionable Fifth Avenue, and the structure took up the entire block between 33rd and 34th streets.
But in late November 1929  after the stock market had crashed and the slow slide into the Great Depression began  workers began demolishing it.
Designed by the noted architect Henry Hardenbergh, the imposing building had been built in two parts, campaigns that reflected the progress of modern construction technology and a bigger and better mantra of American architecture.
The first building, the Waldorf, was an 11-story structure that opened in 1893.
It was built on the site of the mansion where Mrs. Caroline Astor had entertained New Yorks Four Hundred, an exclusive group of New Yorks social elite.
In addition to 530 rooms, the Waldorf offered stately apartments on the second floor and a majestic ballroom that could be closed off for lavish private events.
In 1897, the deluxe Astoria section of the hotel was completed.
Facing 34th Street, its 16 stories employed a steel skeleton structure  at the time, a cutting-edge technique  that allowed for taller buildings.
With 1,300 rooms, it was the largest hotel in the city, and like many high-class palace hotels of the period, the Waldorf Astoria housed permanent and transient patrons; as The New York Times noted in 1890, they were designed to provide a series of magnificent homes for wealthy New Yorkers as an economical alternative to maintaining private mansions.
By 1929, however, the owners of the Waldorf Astoria decided to decamp to Park Avenue, where they erected an equally lavish modern, Art Deco monument.
The demolition of the old hotel, completed by the winter of 1930, made way for the construction of the ultimate expression of the citys architectural ambitions: the Empire State Building.
Traditional New England goes modern

Kevin D. Murphy, Vanderbilt University

Preservationists are still waiting for something positive to come from the demolition of the house that architect Eleanor Raymond designed for her sister Rachel.
Today, photographs are all that remain of the pioneering, modernist Rachel Raymond House, which was built in Belmont, Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston.
Raymond was a graduate of Wellesley College and received her professional training at the Cambridge School of Architecture, an all-womens design school founded in the early 20th century.
The Rachel Raymond House is important example of how American architects incorporated aspects of European modernism into their own work.
Inspired by European luminaries Le Corbusier and Mies van der Rohe, Raymonds home featured abstract, geometric blocks.
She employed flat roofs, metal railings and steel sash windows  modernist elements that were virtually unheard of in early 1930s American homes.
Yet the house is no more.
The Belmont Hill School, a private school for boys, purchased the home and  despite protests from preservationists  demolished it in November 2006.
At the time, architecture critic Robert Campbell wrote that it was considered by many to be the earliest modern dwelling in New England.
The Rachel Raymond House actually predated another iconic modernist house: the home of migr architect Walter Gropius, located in nearby Lincoln, Massachusetts.
While the Rachel Raymond House was eventually razed, the Gropius House has been preserved as a house museum.
So why did these two important houses received such vastly different treatment?
The obvious answer is that the work of women architects has been consistently undervalued.
In her book Where Are the Woman Architects?, architectural historian Despina Stratigakos points out that many female architects seem to possess fewer opportunities for advancement than their male counterparts.
One source of the problem, according to Stratigakos, is a dearth of prominent female role models in the field.
The Rachel Raymond House could have been a living icon and source of inspiration.
Instead, it fell to the wrecking ball.
Paving paradise

Kerry Traynor, University at Buffalo

It might seem odd to lament the loss of a roadway; but Humboldt Parkway wasnt just a road, it was an urban oasis of green parkland  a crucial component of a much larger park and parkway system.
In 1868, landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted arrived in Buffalo, New York to design a park for the city.
Instead, he created a Park and Parkway System that consisted of six parks, seven parkways and eight landscaped circles.
The brilliance of the plan, however, was in the parkways: over 200 feet wide, lined with elm trees and their canopies, they created a ribbon of green that wove its way through the city, connecting its parks and neighborhoods.
Humboldt Parkway connected Delaware Park  Olmsteds largest  with Humboldt Park.
The result: a city within a park, not just parks within a city.
But with calls for urban renewal in the 1950s and a growing dependence on the automobile, the city no longer saw the pastoral quality of Humboldt Parkway as an asset.
To city and state planners, Humboldt Parkway was the ideal location for an expressway  a highway that could carry automobiles to and from the suburbs and the downtown core, while relieving congestion on neighborhood streets.
In order to clear the way for the new highway  dubbed the Kensington Expressway  the state cut down trees, tore up the parkway and demolished homes.
The new highway displaced families, divided neighborhoods by race and income and caused property values to plummet.
As neighborhoods fell apart, businesses shuttered their doors.
Olmsteds parkway had, quite literally, been paved over.
As Joni Mitchell sings in her hit song Big Yellow Taxi, They paved paradise / And put up a parking lot.
From the rubble, a preservation movement is born

Sally Levine, Case Western Reserve University

When I moved to Chicago in 1982, the Chicago Stock Exchange Building had long disappeared, but people still spoke of it with a hushed reverence.
Not only was it considered one of the finest accomplishments of architects Louis Sullivan and Dankmar Adler, its demise also indirectly led to the tragic death of architectural photographer and preservation activist Richard Nickel, who lost his life snapping photographs of the structure during its demolition.
Built in 1893, the 13-story structure housed the stock exchange for just 14 years.
Subsequently the building had a variety of tenants, but leases became fewer and farther between, until the City Council approved its demolition in 1972.
But in its heyday, it was magnificent.
Reflecting Sullivans famous phrase form ever follows function, the facade demarcated the buildings three parts  the base (the stock exchange), the middle levels (offices) and top (the buildings crown).
The base contained an exquisite two-story-high trading room.
The nine stories of offices were notable for their columns of bay windows and Chicago windows (composed of a large fixed window flanked by operable ones), and the building was adorned with a row of recessed windows and a distinctive cornice.
But perhaps the most distinctive aspect of the building was the large arched entry, which represented a major development in Sullivans skill.
Sullivan also adorned the stock exchange room with breathtaking low-relief ornaments and brilliantly painted stenciled patterns.
Many consider its demolition the impetus for Chicagos preservation movement.
Another important Chicago architectural icon, the Reliance Building, ended up being saved after vigorous efforts by activists.
Through the efforts of Nickel and other preservationists, the arched entry and the interior of the trading room were saved  both are now owned by the Art Institute of Chicago.
The arch sits at the corner of Monroe Street and Columbus Drive next to the museum, and the trading room has been reconstructed within the museum itself.
While not as satisfying as seeing the actual building, these remnants testify to the beauty of the Chicago Stock Exchange Building  and the importance of preservation efforts.
This article was originally published on The Conversation.
Kevin D. Murphy, Andrew W. Mellon Chair in the Humanities and Professor and Chair of History of Art, Vanderbilt University

Carol Willis, Founding Director of The Skyscraper Museum, Adjunct Associate Professor of Architecture, Columbia University

Daniel Bluestone, Director, Preservation Studies Program; Professor, History of Art & Architecture; Professor, American and New England Studies, Boston University

Kerry Traynor, Clinical Associate Professor of Urban and Regional Planning, University at Buffalo, The State University of New York

Sally Levine, Lecturer of Architecture, Case Western Reserve University
A new startup, WildKale, thinks it has a better way to get farm-fresh food from the people who grow it to the people who want to buy itat a fair price for everyone involvedby directly connecting consumers to sustainable family farmers in their area.
The service launched this past Monday and currently serves customers in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and Connecticut through 30 small and medium farms who have virtual farm stands hosted by the company.
The farmers, on their end, dont have to leave home or deal with wholesalers and have the opportunity to sell to any customers who live within a 300-mile radius of their farms, says Ana Jakimovska, the founder of WildKale.
Heres how it works: As a customer, you go the website and plug in your zip code.
All the farms working with WildKale near you pop up.
You then pick a farm (or farms) and order from an a la carte menu.
Your purchases arrive via UPS within 24 hours.
Theres a $30 order minimum and a $5.99 flat shipping charge.
Customers get fresh food from local farms without having to subscribe to a service, join a CSA, or even leave their house.
Its basically as simple on the farmers end: They get an alert from WildKale on their smartphone that tells them theres a new order, provides a printable order list and UPS packing label, and even contacts UPS for them.
WildKale also provides the farmers with shipping materials, including a compostable package for refrigerated items made from recycled jute, a type of plant fiber.
WildKale takes a 25 percent cut from each order.
Jakimovska says this is on par with what a farmer would typically spend selling at a farmers market once things like fees and transportation costs are considered.
WildKale subsidizes the shipping costs, maintains the site, and pays all the credit card fees, which she considers a fair deal.
We wanted to make sure the farmer gets paid the full retail pricethe price theyd get at the farmers marketwithout having to spend that time away from the farm, hire someone to man their booth at the farmers market, or worry about transportation costs and waste, she told Modern Farmer.
WildKale works with small and medium-sized family farms that use sustainable practices, whether it be organic or certified natural growers, or folks who arent certified but dont use conventional farming methods.
Jakimovska personally knew many of the farmers before the companys launch.
Shes been buying from them for her restaurant Kaffe 1668, which has three locations across Manhattan.
Being from Macedonia, she grew up eating fresh, local food and brought that mindset with her when she moved to the U.S. For the other farmers, shes actually gone to door to door, or perhaps more accurately, farm to farm, to get them involved.
As of now, the company is only in the Northeast, but they plan to eventually expand across the country.
Jakimovska says their model is very scalable, because unlike other e-farmers markets, like Good Eggs, which had to dramatically scale back in 2015, WildKale doesnt have the logistical problems of warehouses or transportation to deal with.
The food is going straight from the farm to the customer via UPS.
Its just a matter of getting the customers, and signing up more farmers all around the U.S.

More stories from Modern Farmer:
Two years ago, the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., celebrated the 150th birthday of Edvard Munch with an exhibition featuring The Scream, the famous personification of the Norwegian masters struggle with agoraphobia.
In it, a genderless protagonist confronts a nightmarish sunset of shrieking reds, burning yellows, and stormy blues.
The show told the story of how Munch elevated his personal experiences into the universal.
As a blurb from the exhibition notes: The real power of his art lies less in his biography than in his ability to extrapolate universal human experiences from his own life.
Or, in other words, you dont exactly need to understand the context of The Scream to understand, well, that scream.
Now, the National Gallery is revisiting the master painter and printmaker, this time in an exhibition exploring how his color choices tell a larger story of his age.
Featuring a selection of 21 prints, Edvard Munch: Color in Context, which is on view through January 28, 2018, makes a case for how Munchs feverish palettes and unnerving use of color in his workespecially his printsreflect the emerging scholarship of the late 19th century, when scientists, academics and philosophers sought to bridge the gap between the real and invisible world.
Mollie Berger, curatorial assistant for the department of prints and drawings, organized the small exhibition after reconsidering Munchs prints.
Looking at the prints I thought, the color is phenomenal, and thats really to me what comes across, she says.
In the past, often scholars have said these prints are all about his internal angst or what was going on with his life, but I think in some ways hes also trying to communicate with us.
Munch came of age at a time when everything humans knew about the natural world was changing: Physicist George Johnstone Stoney discovered the electron; photographer Eadweard Muybridge captured the first fast-motion image; Wilhelm Roentgen unlocked the power of the x-ray.
The naked eye was no longer seen as a truth teller, but rather something that obscured the intangible realms.
Munch was particularly receptive to the idea of invisible energies and dimensions.
Death had followed the artist, born in 1863 and raised in Oslo; as a child, he lost his mother and sister Sophie.
In early adulthood, his father died, and soon after, another sister, Laura, had to be committed to an asylum.
After Munch ditched his schooling in engineering to pursue art, he found his voice in the symbolism movement, identifying with contemporaries such as author Fyodor Dostoyevsky, who he believed had penetrated...into the mystical realms of the soul, in a way that no artist had yet.
Early in his career, Munch described his own artistic choices in a similar vein, saying, I felt I should make somethingI thought it would be so easyit would take form under my hands like magic.
Then people would see!
Literal magic wasnt so far off from what Munch was looking to capture.
The scientific advancements of the day also ushered in a golden age of belief in supernatural forces and energies, and symbolists, in turn, were heavily influenced by the occult and the dream world.
As a young artist, Munch took to hanging out in the spiritualist and theosophist circles, and questioning the presence of the soul.
He was certainly interested and fascinated by it, says Berger.
He didnt have crazy visions like [August] Strindberg would have but, according to his friend Gustav Schiefler, Munch did claim to see auras around people.
The theosophical idea of psychic auras, or colors influenced by emotions and ideas, was a popular theory of the day, advanced by Annie Besant and Charles W. Leadbetter in their influential 1901 book, Thought-Forms.
While there is no proof that Munch pulled directly from the book when creating his own palette, Berger includes their color key in the show, and its tempting to draw parallels between Munch's choices and their work, which pegs colors like a bright yellow to highest intellect, muddy brown as a stand in for selfishness and deep red for sensuality.
Munchs prints, especially, connect the idea of color and physic auras, Berger argues.
The mediumless expensive to make than his paintingsfreed the artist up for experimentation, she explains, and the singular color choices he employs to powerful effect do present a compelling narrative.
For example, in one 1895 composition, The Vampire, a womans hair splays over a man, who leans into her in a passionate embrace.
The seductive visual, however, takes on a new meaning if you consider the retouched proof made before the final woodcut, on view in the exhibition, where the arm of the woman and the face of the man is splashed with yellow, or high intellect.
Under that light, the artwork instantly shifts to a more contemplative, romantic story, more befitting of Munchs original title for the work, Love and Pain.
Berger believes Munch is one of the artists of his age who is most dedicated to the theosophical ideas of color choice.
For me, with Munch, the color is paramount, says Berger.
I dont see really anything else.
His selection and combination can be so compelling that its tempting to suggest Munch had a form of synesthesia, where one sense causes a sensation in another, though he was never diagnosed with it during his lifetime.
Scholars have said, of course, Munch had synesthesia.
But people say that about [Wassily] Kandinsky too, says Berger.
I think all artists on some level have that relationship with color and perception because I feel like you have to on some degree to be an artist.
You have to see color differently than other people to be so drawn to it and follow that path in life.
In the exhibition, Munchs metaphysical influences arguably come most in focus in Encounter in Space.
The 1902 abstract etching, which would feel at home in The Twilight Zone, depicts orange-red and blue-green masses of humanity, which appear to float across a void that might as well be the fourth-dimension.
The color selections, which according to Thought-Forms translate as pure affection and devotion or sympathy, respectively, tell a hopeful story.
Though Munchs own life was full of hardship, this reading of the work suggests that perhaps he hoped the invisible world that he captured in his art was a kinder one.
Initially, the Killer Whale clan crest hat, or Ket Sa a xw, seems indistinguishable from the model beside it.
Both depict a killer whale emerging from the ocean, vividly rendered in shades of red and turquoise as streams of water, represented by abalone shells and hair, flow over its body.
Though there are minor differences in texture and edge details, the resemblance is strikingespecially after viewers realize that one of the hats is a sacred object imbued with the ancestral history of the Tlingit Da k laweidi clan and the other is a piece of painted wood.
In all fairness, the 3D-milled replica of the original Killer Whale hat is a meticulously crafted feat of modern technology.
Innovation, however, does not equate to the spiritual significance embodied by the real Ket Sa a xw, and this differentiation is important: Its why the Killer Whale hat (and its copy), the southeastern Alaska-based Da k laweidi clan and the Smithsonian Institution have become embroiled in the challenges of the ongoing issues surrounding repatriation, artifact digitization and cultural heritage.
The story of the Ket Sa a xw begins in 1900, when it was carved for Da k laweidi leader Gushteiheen, or Spray Behind the Dorsal Fin, by his brother-in-law Yilnaaw, a well-known Deisheetaan clan artist.
Several years later, the hat was acquired in 1904 by Smithsonian ethnologist John Swantonit remained in the Institutions collections for more than a century.
But, when museums across the country started to repatriate, or return, human remains, sacred and funerary items and objects of cultural patrimony to indigenous tribes (Smithsonian repatriations are governed by the 1989 National Museum of the American Indian Act, while other institutions adhere to the 1990 Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, or NAGPRA), the Tlingit reclaimed many of their lost clan items, including the Killer Whale hat.
On January 2, 2005, the hat was repatriated to clan leader Mark Jacobs, Jr., an ardent champion of Tlingit cultural preservation efforts.
That same day, members of the Raven and Eagle moieties, or binary social groups, joined Jacobs, who had fallen seriously ill, at the hospital in Sitka, Alaska, and used the hat in ceremony for the first time in more than 100 years.
Jacobs died eleven days later with the Ket Sa a xw beside him.
Jacobss successor, Edwell John, Jr., assumed leadership of the Da k laweidi in 2007.
As clan leader, John became caretaker of the clans sacred objects, though he emphasizes that they are communal rather than personal property.
These objects, which are known as at.ow, bear the clans crest and have great historical, cultural and religious significance.
Many have been passed down for generations, but longevity isnt the reason for their sacred status.
Instead, at.ow transition from secular to sacred objects during a special ceremony.
At.ow doesnt mean old, John explains.
It means it belongs to the clan and its precious.
Its a representation of the clan.
The Killer Whale hat, for example, embodies clan ancestors and lets members of the tribe feel the presence of their relatives.
You dont necessarily see a piece of wood, John adds.
Objects become at.ow during a memorial potlatch.
At this ceremony, representatives of the opposite moiety recognize the unveiling of an official clan crest object.
Without this acknowledgement, the object is considered a piece of personal property, not at.ow.
Eric Hollinger, an anthropologist at the Smithsonians National Museum of Natural Historys repatriation office, says the dynamic between opposite moieties is a key aspect of Tlingit culture.
Every member of a Tlingit tribe belongs to either the Raven or Eagle/Wolf moiety (children assume their mothers moiety).
As John explains, its all about balancetraditionally, Tlingit even marry members of opposite moieties.
There are multiple Tlingit tribes with further subdivisions (John is of the Killer Whale Chasing the Seal house, which falls under the wider Da k laweidi clan), but all share a societal split between the Raven and Eagle/Wolf moieties.
They cant exist without the opposites, and they depend on their opposites to help them, Hollinger says.
Likewise, they do things for them.
Today, the Killer Whale hat occupies its original role as a sacred clan object, but ongoing collaboration between the Da k laweidi and the Smithsonian has added a new dimension to the hats story.
Adam Metallo is the Smithsonian Digitization Program Offices 3D program officer, or in more fantastical terms, a laser cowboy (the nickname draws on his use of laser scans and pioneering innovations in the field).
Metallo uses 3D digitization technology to take highly accurate measurements of artifacts.
With this data, he can then create virtual 3D models and physical replicas of objects.
Thanks to Metallo and the rest of the digitization team, interested parties can view, download and even 3D-print items from the Smithsonians collections.
The programs website currently includes 51 virtual models ranging from a woolly mammoth fossil to an Abraham Lincoln life mask.
As Metallo explains, the Smithsonian has worked to digitize its collections for decades, but available tools have vastly improved in recent years.
Now, 3D scanning and printing offer an edge over techniques like photographing artifacts and creating rudimentary 2D models.
John has extensive experience in the technology industry and saw 3D digitization tools in action during visits to the Smithsonian.
When Hollinger and his team asked if John would let them scan and replicate the Killer Whale hat, he agreed.
The clan was interested in scanning the hat to archive it digitally, Hollinger says, and at the same time, we were interested in finding ways to tell the story about the repatriation of the hat and its role in the clan.
In April 2010, John brought the Killer Whale hat back to Washington, D.C. Over the next two years, the Smithsonian worked closely with John to create a copy that was both respectful of Tlingit culture and suitable for education purposes.
Digitization experts laser-scanned the hat, bouncing a beam off of its surface and deriving measurements from the time it took the laser to bounce back, and also collected 3D data through an imaging technique called photogrammetry.
The hat underwent a fairly straightforward digitization process, but according to Metallo, hair attached to the whales dorsal fins and abalone shells designed to represent water proved challenging to scan.
We ended up having to work with less accurate data in those small sections, he adds.
After digitization, the virtual model was translated into reality by a team of Smithsonian model makers with the help of a CNC milling machine, which carved the replica out of alder wood.
Finally, the team added paint, abalone shells, hair and a trailer of white ermine skins.
The 3D-milled model was ready for its debut at the 2012 Sharing Our Knowledge Clan Conference in Sitka, Alaska, which brought together Tlingit leaders and non-Tlingit academics.
John first saw the replica during a small side gathering at the conference.
In accordance with Tlingit protocol, he asked a Raven carver to unveil the hat.
I was absolutely floored, John says.
I couldnt believe how close it came [to the real hat].
There was just a tiny shade of difference.
Although the replica hat lacked spiritual significance, it depicted the Killer Whale crest and invoked the emotional response typically associated with real at.ow.
As John told the individuals in the room, When I look at this hat, I see Mark Jacobs.
I see my Uncle Dan Brown.
I see my mom, Alice.
And its just amazing that I could be a part of this.
Later, the Ket Sa a xw and replica Killer Whale hat rested side by side for the first time, virtually indistinguishable.
But, at the conclusion of the conference, the real hat returned to its Alaskan home, and the copy moved to an exhibition in the museums Q?rius education venue.
According to Hollinger, this collaboration marks the first museum-led 3D replication of a repatriated sacred object and could prove precedent-setting for cultural institutions and indigenous groups alike.
From a museum perspective, 3D copies do not provide a way to avoid repatriation, but an opportunity to teach visitors about repatriation and an items cultural history.
For communities like the Tlingit, digitization offers a back-up version of significant clan objects; if a disaster occurs (John references a 1944 fire that destroyed many crest hats in the Tlingit village of Hoonah), digital data can be used to make a replacement, whether its 3D-milled or hand carved.
Digitization has educational benefits, too.
John says, A hundred years from now, even 1,000 years from now, our clan members may lose touch with what our objects are and what they mean to the clan.
Having those archived like documents .
helps to preserve our history, helps to preserve our culture.
Of course, the process has its drawbacks: Tlingit crests have been appropriated for commercial purposes in the past, and digital files are easily downloaded and abused.
Although the replica hat belongs to the Smithsonian, it depicts the clan crest and is protected by the Tlingits cultural property rights.
This is why users are free to download most 3D models on the Smithsonians website but not the Killer Whale hat.
The copys status as a replica rather than real at.ow also may generate confusion, particularly when clan members check out the hat.
This singular arrangement between the Tlingit and the Smithsonian requires that the hat be labeled as a replica and allows members of the Da k laweidi to wear itwith Johns permissionduring public performances.
Hollinger explains that the hat acts as regalia, a symbol of the Killer Whale clan, and does not become at.ow upon its use in a performance.
Theyre not dancing it in ceremony, he adds.
These are public events where theyre dancing for educational and entertainment purposes, but thats not ceremony.
Without receiving approval from the opposite moiety at a memorial potlatch, the replica hat remains just that.
Within the Tlingit community, some have raised concerns that digitization may be a threat to tradition.
According to John, these individuals dont want a machine to create objects bearing the clans crest, particularly if the technology replaces human carvers.
In response, John emphasized that digitization is mainly a backup with added educational benefits.
Others recognized the value of digitization, and a number of clan leaders even had their crest objects digitally scanned for archival purposes at the 2012 conference.
Today, the Smithsonian is still actively engaged in digitization projects, and Hollinger says these collaborative relationships continue.
He and the digitization team will be attending the 2017 Sharing Our Knowledge Conference in Sitka next month to scan more objects that the clan would like to see digitally preserved for the future.
The relationship between digitization and the preservation of cultural heritage is still in the early stages, but the worlds top cultural institutions are working to define a set of universal best practices.
This year, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London partnered with the Peri Charitable Foundation to create the Reproduction of Art and Cultural Heritage, or ReACH, initiative.
The V&A is no stranger to reproduction issues: Its first director, Sir Henry Cole, penned International Convention for Promoting Universally Reproduction of Works of Art, a document promoting production and exchange of sculpture casts, in 1867.
At a series of five roundtables (the Smithsonian hosted one on July 19), experts debate difficult questions: When an object is easily reproduced, what happens to the originals value?
How can digitization be used to preserve cultures at risk of destruction?
What are the legal and ethical considerations related to reproduction?
Metallo, who presented a session at the Smithsonian roundtable, doesnt have the answersno one does.
He says, however, This is a lot less about making a replica of an object and more about the documentation of our collections in a way that transcribes them for a digital world.
Hollinger returns to the Killer Whale hat that helped spur these discussions for, if not an answer, a keen observation.
[The Da k laweidi] feel a connection to the replica even though, in their words, its just a piece of wood, he explains.
Its starting to build its own life and its own history in a unique way, even though its not a clan crest object.
Perhaps this simple differentiation is the key to a divisive debate.
Reproduced objects, rather than replacing originals, can preserve and protect them while simultaneously creating a new, distinctive legacy.
Traditionally, fall food brings to mind hot apple cider, spicy butternut squash soup, and pumpkin spice everything.
But at food festivals across the country, theres a lot more on offer.
Its not just Oktoberfest, either.
There are big, all-inclusive festivals, like Fall for Greenville in South Carolina, and smaller ones focused on singular ingredients, like Montanas Lewistown Chokecherry Festival.
Food fairs are a great way to enjoy the best of fall before the days get shorter and the temperatures drop  and, in some cases, are a great excuse to travel.
Get serious about Hawaiian fare by heading to Maui, Oahu, or the Big Island for three weekends of upscale restaurant cuisine and wine pairings.
Or head to the Cape to slurp as many briny oysters as you can stomach.
Here are 12 of the very best food festivals happening across the country in autumn.
The Arkansas Cornbread Festival

The Cornbread Festival has been around since 2011, and is one of the smaller ones on the map, with a few thousand visitors stopping in for the celebration.
Theres music, a range of vendors, and activities for kids (including face painting), but the main draw is the cornbread.
If youre new to the southern staple, this is the place to try it  and if you fancy yourself a cornbread specialist, enter your version for a chance to win cash prizes.
October 21.
Wellfleet OysterFest in Massachusetts

The Wellfleet OysterFest is all about Cape Cod's shellfish: there's an oyster shucking competition, the Shuck n' Run 5K race and, most importantly, the catch of local shell fishers.
In addition to salty, raw oysters, clams are also on offer, stuffed and in chowders, for those who prefer their seafood cooked.
Wondering what happens to all those empty shells?
The festival has a recycling program that sends them back into the ocean, where they're used to restore habitats  which means even more oysters in the future.
October 14-15.
Hawaii Food and Wine Festival

The people behind Hawaii Food and Wine Festival take cuisine seriously.
With events on the Big Island, Maui, and Oahu spread over the course of three weekends, there is ample opportunity to sample the best food Hawaii has to offer.
Don't confuse this for a county fair.
Most events at the upscale festival cost upward of $100, and involve sit-down dinners and wine tastings.
For more affordable family fun, tickets to Keiki in the Kitchen cost $5 and offer opportunities for children to learn about cooking and where their food comes from.
October 20 to November 5.
Beignet Fest in Louisiana

If you still havent tried a famous New Orleans beignet, the city's Beignet Fest is the place to do so.
With about a dozen vendors, you won't have any trouble finding a place to try the traditional sugared treats.
But there are also iterations of the deep fried pastry that include everything from seafood-style beignets to cheese-filled beignets.
The festival is also a great spot to enjoy the ubiquitous New Orleans music scene, with multiple brass bands playing throughout the day.
October 7.
Feast Portland in Oregon

In rainy Portland, Oregon there are really only a handful of weeks every year that are (almost) guaranteed to have pleasant temperatures and clear skies: and they're the first few in September.
That means Feast Portland falls at the perfect time to enjoy the dramatic landscapes and lauded Pacific Northwest fare.
Whether youre local or have been planning a visit, the festival is an ideal way to experience the city.
Events are scattered across town and include a Sandwich Invitational, where 19 chefs vie for best sandwich, a hands-on class to perfect your ability to discern flavors, and Brunch Village, which is exactly what it sounds like.
September 14 to 17.
Fall for Greenville in South Carolina

Fall for Greenville is a complete fall festival experience.
Theyve got food, drinks, music, competitions, kids events, and cooking demonstrations.
Over 40 restaurants participate in the three-day event, and they expect more than 200,000 people to attend this year.
Even if you come for the food, you'll want to stay for the entertainment.
More than 70 acts are scheduled for the seven stages.
October 13 to 15.
Avocado and Margarita Street Festival in Morro Bay, California

While much of the country will be focused on more traditional fall flavors, California celebrates its year-round sunshine by eating fresh avocados and drinking margaritas in Morro Bay.
The event hosts over two dozen vendors who use the Californian crop in their dishes.
As for margaritas, there are original, jalapeo, and blood orange options, as well as build-your-own margs.
Theres also a full schedule of festival games and entertainment, including music, a mini-avocado toss, and a contest for the best food.
September 9.
Eagle River Cranberry Fest in Wisconsin

If Thanksgiving cranberry sauce is not enough cranberry to see you through the year, Eagle River Cranberry Fest is the answer.
Organizers estimate that they sell approximately 10,000 pounds of cranberries during the event  and that's to say nothing of the on-site fare, including cranberry brats, cranberry baked goods, cranberry beer, and (of course) the Worlds Largest Cranberry Cheesecake.
When youve had your fix, go on one of the marsh tours, where visitors can see how the cranberries are harvested.
Its fun for kids, but also surprisingly entertaining for adults.
October 7 to 8.
Colorado Mountain Winefest

Colorado Mountain Winefest offers four days of wine-focused events and activities in Palisade, Colorado.
Visitors can enjoy vineyard tours, a wine and chocolate pairing, and a class on winemaking for beginners.
On Saturday, the Festival in the Park will mark the 26th year of the event, and hosts more than 50 wineries, musical performers, and a grape stomp.
Theres also food for sale, to make sure youve got something to soak up all the wine.
September 14 to 17.
Chokecherry Festival in Montana

The Lewistown Chokecherry Festival is an annual event thats been running for nearly 30 years, but youd be forgiven for not knowing about the tiny, dark red fruit.
Actually, even if you did, theres good reason not to pluck one off a shrub and try it: the leaves and stone of the fruit are poisonous, and the berry itself reportedly gets its name from the sharp, tart taste.
The best (and safest) way to eat them are cooked into syrups, jams, and wine.
And theres opportunity to try every version imaginable at the festival.
September 9.
Pickle Day in New York

New Yorkers love food, and they also have near-unlimited access to every cuisine imaginable, so youd think theyd be hard to impress.
But show up to any food festival in New York City  or even weekend markets  and youll find the crowd shoulder-to-shoulder, vying for a place in line.
In a city so full of options, sometimes its nice to limit yourself to one type of food.
Pickle Day shuts down the Lower East Sides Orchard Street for the afternoon, with more than 20 vendors hawking their pickles.
October 15.
Santa Fe Wine and Chile Fiesta in New Mexico

For more than a quarter of a century, the Santa Fe Wine and Chile Fiesta has been giving fans of southwestern fare a place to celebrate.
This year, 75 local restaurants and 100 wineries will participate in the five-day event, which will include wine-paired dinners at restaurants across the city, culinary demonstrations, and lunches hosted by a collection of visiting chefs.
September 27 to October 1.
Other articles from Travel + Leisure:
Whether your passion lies in Asian or American artifacts; photography or philately; crime scenes, cats or commanders in chief; postmodernism, printmaking or Persian history, the exhibitions opening this fall at the Smithsonian museums across Washington, D.C. and in New York City are sure to contain something up your alley.
Freer|Sackler Museum

High on the list of Washington D.C. happenings this fall will be the October 14 reopening of the Freer|Sackler Museum, which comes on the heels of the Freer Gallery's two-year renovation.
In honor of the revitalization of the gallery and the curatorial rethinking of its exhibition space, the reopening will be accompanied by a weekend of celebration.
"IlluminAsia: A Festival of Asian Art, Food, and Cultures" will boast an Asian food market, art-making workshops, performances and a spectacular, must-see video projection presented on the museum's Mall-side entrance.
With the reopening, fans of felines will be treated to a large collection of cat exotica from ancient Egypt in the new exhibition "Divine Felines: Cats of Ancient Egypt," with the oldest specimens dating back some 4,000 years.
From statues, grave markers and sphinxes to a literal cat mummy, the 70-odd objects will convey the spiritual and cultural significance of Egyptian cats in a visually vivid way.
The Sackler is even throwing a bone to dog peopleseveral jackal- and otherwise canid-themed artworks will be getting their own little nook within the larger display.
The Sackler will also offer a look at a formidable collection of Bronze Age bells from China, and will allow visitors to synthesize their own music from the authentic recorded sounds of the instruments on handy touchscreen computers.
Encountering the Buddha: Art and Practice Across Asia offers a pan-Asian perspective on depictions of the religious icon, and in Feast Your Eyes: A Taste for Luxury in Ancient Iran, the lives of millennia-old nobles will be illuminated through the unlikely window of their lavish gold and silver tableware.
Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum

In New York City, the Cooper Hewitt Design Museum, meanwhile, will be homing in on the rich cultural legacy of Japan.
In Passion for the Exotic: Japonism, late 19th-century pottery, furniture and other handcrafted items inspired by Japanese traditions, but made in the West, will testify to the island nations global aesthetic impact.
Passion for the Exotic well complements the forward-thinking sleekness of Joris Laarman Lab: Design in the Digital Age, whose 3D-printed and algorithm-designed chairs and tables channel organic forms through the unlikely medium of machined metal.
For those interested in avant-garde artistry at a smaller scale, Jewelry of Ideas: Gifts from the Susan Grant Lewin Collection exhibits innovation at the level of earrings, necklaces and other chic accessories across the past six decades.
With sharp geometry and bold color combos, the jewelry in the collection is sure to leave an impression.
Smithsonian American Art Museum

Oaxaca-born artist Rufino Tamayo is the subject of the museums Tamayo: The New York Years, which will immerse visitors in the oil painters surreal interpretation of the American urban landscape in the first half of the 20th century.
Though inflected with pre-Columbian Mexican folk influences (Tamayo had blood ties to the Zapotec people), his art is distinctly modern in its geometry, its melancholy and its dreamlike atmosphere.
A nuanced blend of European and Mexican traditions, Tamayos work will take on a different significance for each individual who views it.
In Kara Walkers take on Harpers Pictorial History of the Civil War, superimposed silhouettes of African Americans haunt scenes of the Old South.
The ethereal light compositions of Thomas Wilfred offer an intense, cosmic experience.
Visitors to the American Art museum seeking stimulating and original work cannot go wrong.
Renwick Gallery

The most delightfully bizarre exhibition coming to D.C. this fall is the Renwicks Murder is Her Hobby: Frances Glessner Lee and the Nutshell Studies of Unexplained Death, leading visitors through a macabre village of dollhouse tableaus recreating elaborate American crime scenes.
When Lee assembled the miniatures, she had in mind a practical end: the training of forensic analysts.
Indeed, the models are still used in instruction today, some 55 years after Lees passing.
But what is perhaps most compelling about the diorama displays is their mixture of innocence and whimsy with death and fear of the unknown.
For fans of detective stories and eerie Americana, this is must-see material.
Going hand in hand with the work of Frances Glessner Lee is the unsettling Rick Arulace installation The Final Stop, which takes the form of an atmospheric, purgatorial subway platform where sound and light are in constant flux but no trains ever actually arrive.
National Portrait Gallery

In the wake of Labor Day, The Sweat of Their Face reminds us of the diversity, fortitude and resilience of Americas labor force across the years.
The exhibition runs the gamut from grainy industrial- and Depression-era photographs of child factory hands to Winslow Homers warmly colored visions of labor in the American natural world.
As workers individual stories are increasingly sidelined in the economy of the modern day, The Sweat of Their Face brings to the fore the humanity that has always underlain material production in the U.S.
In addition, The National Portrait Gallerys classic Americas Presidents showremodeled to include extra information and exploration-friendly touchscreen monitorswill be triumphantly reopening on September 22, complete with Gilbert Stuarts Lansdowne portrait of George Washington.
And in mid-November, the Portrait Gallery will reveal 27 of its new acquisitions, to breathe fresh life into the nooks and crannies of the American experience.
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden

For a thought-provoking look at how artists and everyday people alike find meaning in a vacuum, check out the Hirshhorns What Absence is Made Of exhibition.
The works within are notable for their inventive use of negative space and intentional omissions, which goes to show that what isnt present can often be just as affecting as what is.
This type of art by its nature demands active participation from viewers, so go prepared for a mental workout.
Also at the Hirshhorn will be Utopian Projects, a collection of whimsical maquettes from the minds of conceptual artists Ilya and Emilia Kabakov.
The nave, naked joy of these scenes will provide a fine counterbalance to the enigmatic voids of What Absence is Made Of.
It's the end of the work week and that means the self-proclaimed Friday Friends are gathered around a table outside O'Connor Brewing Co. in Norfolk, Virginia, slipping into the shadows to avoid the summer rays between trips to the frosty taproom inside.
It's a diverse group, mostly from Old Dominion University about 20 blocks north managers of the motor pool, parking services, grounds and facilities, and environmental health and safety, a professor and one of his former students.
There's also a pharmacist and a woman they call their gastronomical engineershe brings foodwho joined the group after giving one of the guys a hard time.
Most of them have been stopping by several times a week for years.
"I have a hard time staying away from here," says Rob Grandon, a special events manager for parking at the university.
I live only a mile away."
They banter about work politics, children, music spots in town, and their best practical jokes.
It's a good time, and a testament to how craft breweries have emerged as another informal meeting placea third placeover the past decade.
Breweries have become third places, outside the home and office, where Americans congregate, says Mike Stein, a beer researcher and historian for the DC Brau Brewing Co. in Washington, D.C.
The idea of a third place apart from home and work was highlighted in The Great Good Place, a 1989 book by Ray Oldenburg, then a sociologist at the University of West Florida.
In the book, Oldenburg chronicled the social importance of third placesEnglish pubs, French cafes, American tavernsand lamented the lack of them as Americans moved to suburbia.
"Though a radically different kind of setting for a home, the third place is remarkably similar to a good home in the psychological comfort and support that it extends," he writes.
"They are the heart of a communitys social vitality, the grassroots of democracy, but sadly, they constitute a diminishing aspect of the American social landscape."
On Norfolk's southwest edge two nights earlier, it was standing room only inside the tasting room of Smartmouth Brewing Co. Trivia players penciled in answers to questions about the mystical creature that is Scotland's mascot and what celibate monk was considered the founder of genetics.
Outside, Capt'n Crabby's food truck served crab cake sandwiches.
You won't find people hypnotized by giant television screens blaring sports or their smartphones at places like this.
You'll find them talking at community tables, maybe playing a game like Cards Against Humanity, Scrabble or cribbage, or intensely removing one piece at a time from a giant Jenga set.
Craft breweries across the country have become schmooze central, a modern-day evolution of the British pub and the colonial tavern.
In a decade, their number has grown to more than 5,300 from 1,500.
They are the evening analog to the third place of the morning, the coffeehouse.
George Homewood, Norfolk's director of planning and community development, has watched the rise of small breweries and their importance to the social fabric of a city.
It's why Norfolk and other cities have pursued them as attractions and as economic development generators.
He notes that microbreweries are different from the traditional Irish bar or the tavern of decades ago that never changed from day to day.
"That's not what we want today, he adds.
We want our third places to challenge us a little bit."
At many craft breweries, there is a different food truck outside nightly.
Depending upon the brewery, there may be yoga on Sundays, trivia on Wednesdays, retro video games on Thursdays, and music on Saturdays as well as neighborhood block parties, a monthly pet adoption day or a free community meal.
It's part creating community, part smart marketing.
"They are gathering places that are in many ways replacing things like libraries and recreation centers within a neighborhood," Homewood says.
"I read a quoteand I don't remember from wherethat you put in a microbrewery and a tasting room and if you're not careful a whole neighborhood will grow up."
In Milwaukee, partners Andy Gehl and Kevin Wright, a recovering attorney and a brewmaster who met as youths at a summer camp, developed their brand concept for Third Space Brewing around the idea of a third place based on Oldenburgs book.
It was news to Oldenburg, who is 85, retired, and lives in Florida.
Reached by telephone, he said he planned to look into the rise of craft breweries as third places for the next edition of his book.
"We thought with the rise of craft beer, what better place than a brewery to be your third place, Gehl says.
Gehl and Wright have a taproom and a beer garden that is both kid friendly and dog friendly.
Thats the norm, another way to encourage people to linger and mingle.
In Portland, known as Beervana because it is has 70 craft breweries, Colin Rath and his partner, co-owners of Migration Brewing Co., began as home brewers who held block parties sharing their beer with neighbors.
They thought it would be awesome, he says, to host events and make beer for a living.
So the brewery was born in an old radiator shop more than seven years ago.
There, they continue to foster community, hosting a monthly dine out night with proceeds going to charity as well as making their events space available for everything from school groups to nonprofit fundraisers.
Over time, Rath has become such good friends with some regulars that he invited them to his wedding.
Rath likens brew pubs to the Public House, an idea going back to Roman times.
"The public house is where people can talk, get things done, and see each other as human beings," he says.
"That's the point of a third place.
It's where people can feel comfortable.
They know they're going to be accepted no matter what their views."
In Philadelphia, Mike Wambolt and his partners opened Crime and Punishment Brewing Co. in an old bike shop in the city's Brewerytown neighborhood in 2015.
The brewery sponsors Little League, hosts arts events and fundraisers for neighborhood schools.
We're in a gentrifying neighborhood," says Wambolt, who has a masters degree in philosophy and has lived in the neighborhood for nine years.
"We're considered the cornerstone business.
That's really cool.
No matter who you are or where you're from, you can pop in a find a beer you like to drink.
We've tried to create a place where you can hang out and have two or three beers."
Opening a craft brewery seems to attract people who give back.
In Hendersonville, North Carolina, Lisa McDonald and her partner opened Sanctuary Brewing Co. based on their love of community, their love of beer and their love of animals.
Once a week, the brewery hosts free vegan meals, pet adoption days and yoga with cats.
It offers live music seven days a week during the summers.
The brewery features a Kindness Wall where donations of food and clothing are left.
"From day one, we've been, like, that's a wacky idea, let's absolutely do that," McDonald says.
"We have so much activity and so much excitement every day."
At Smartmouth in Norfolk, theres an outdoor picnic area with corn hole and ring toss.
Owner Porter Hardy says there have been times when so many parents with toddlers stopped by that staff created a stroller parking area.
Laws about minors in drinking establishments, and their caveats and loopholes, vary state by state.
While bars may not allow those under legal drinking age to enter, particularly in evening hours, many craft breweries encourage families.
At Norfolks O'Connor Brewing, a chalkboard inside the warehouses bay doors features a long list of events, from an upcoming folk festival to an evening with a DJ and a dance-off to game nights and vinyl nights.
There's plenty for everyone, even nondrinkers.
"It's not a bar," says Kevin O'Connor, the owner of O'Connor Brewing.
"It's not a bar mentality.
People are not here to get hammered."
O'Connor says there has been an evolution since he started making beer in 2009 a few blocks away.
When the brewery moved to its present location in 2014 and opened a sprawling tasting room and events space, he says community members came forward with ideas, everything from arts exhibits, craft fairs, including one that attracted 3,000 people, and weddings.
Yes, you, too, can get married in your favorite craft brewery.
All that activity day after day means craft breweries can be engines of neighborhood revitalization, often in industrial areas that have fallen into disuse.
Wynkoop Brewing Co., a brewpub founded by former Colorado Gov.
John Hickenlooper in 1988, is credited with jump starting the renaissance of what has become Denver's LoDo neighborhood, now a bustling hip place with Coors Field, one restaurant after another and chic boutiques.
In Richmond, Virginia's Scott's Addition neighborhood, developers in recent years have begun aggressively moving into the long-ignored industrial buildings following on the heels of a handful of new breweries.
In Norfolk, since O'Connor opened, there's been a slow renaissance in the neighborhood.
Two restaurants, a distillery and a bookstore have opened.
Developers have plans to create hundreds of apartments in old industrial buildings nearby.
"These things are mini-economic development generators wherever they pop up," says Chuck Rigney, Norfolk's director of economic development.
What Rigney has observed in Norfolk has happened throughout the country in Cleveland, rural North Carolina, Boston, Portland and elsewhere.
He says the city, which has seven craft breweries, is looking for more.
"One of the things we want to be is a place where, in particular, young people want to stay and work and make their lives in our community," he adds.
"Having the kinds of experiences that breweries bring with food trucks or adjacent restaurants and other experiences is the lifeblood and future of the city.
It's not by coincidence that we try to fuel these things."
At Smartmouth, founder Porter Hardy IV, another recovering attorney, says he didn't realize how successful they'd been creating a third place until the brewery's first anniversary party.
They expected maybe 500 people.
More than 1,500 showed up.
"I remember thinking, 'Wow, this must really mean something to people," he says.
"Whenever I have a bad day," he adds, "the way I get over it is to go into the tasting room and see everybody enjoying themselves.
People coming here to relax.
People coming here to run into other people.
It's the best reminder to me of why I do what I do."
Born to two Parisian pastry shop owners in the latter half of the 19th century, Eugne Schueller was growing up to be an exceptionally studious and hardworking young man.
Before he went to school each daywhere he earned top grades in all of his classeshe would rise early to help his parents prepare the pastries.
Still, it was a relatively inauspicious beginning for someone destined to build one of the worlds great fortunes.
After taking his Baccalaurat degreeroughly equivalent to two years of collegehe entered the Institute of Applied Chemistry, where, as he said with typical immodesty, I succeeded brilliantly and finished first in my class.
Following his graduation in 1904, he took a position as a laboratory assistant at the Sorbonne.
That seemed to map out a respectable but hardly lucrative career as a university researcher.
Then something happened that would change the course of his life.
The owner of a large barbershop visited seeking help in developing a synthetic hair dye.
At the time, hair dyes were not widely used by Frenchwomen, largely because most of the lead-based concoctions in existence were toxic and irritated the scalp.
Schueller agreed to become the barbers technical adviser.
But even then the ambitious young man chafed at the idea of working under someone elses orders.
He soon cut ties with the barber and struck out on his own, experimenting with hair dyes in a rented space near the Tuileries Gardens.
His first efforts were disappointing.
But he persisted, continuing his experiments, changing formulas, even trying out the dyes on his own hair.
Finally, I had the good fortune, which I think I deserved, he wrote, to obtain a product of excellent quality that allowed me at last to launch my company.
So in 1909, he founded the Socit franaise de teintures inoffensives pour cheveuxthe French Company of Inoffensive Hair Dyesa mouthful that he soon changed to LOral, a homonym for Aurale, a popular hairstyle of the period and a play on the word aurole, or halo.
He could not know it then, but his little business would in time become the worlds largest cosmetics firm.
Schueller was an obsessive worker and a restless thinker.
As if running his company was not enough to occupy his mind, he was forever probing new ideas about the organization of industry, the economy and politics.
In his early days, he dabbled with socialist ideology.
After that he became a Freemason, briefly immersing himself in the secretive cult of intellectual humanism before leaving it three years later.
And soon, he would become a visceral opponent of Freemasonryalong with Jews and republicanism.
In mid-1930s and against the backdrop of the Great Depression, Schueller began expounding on his developing economic theories in a series of books, articles, radio chats and public lectures aimed at winning converts.
His main idea was the proportional salary.
Instead of paying workers an hourly or daily wage, he argued, their salary should be proportional to their production.
He actually applied this principle, in part, to his operations at LOral, and it received some attention from economists, though the scheme never gained widespread support.
Meanwhile, the Third Republic, the French parliamentary regime that had followed the fall of Napoleon III in 1871, teetered on the verge of collapse.
In a country rocked by strikes, militant syndicalism, unemployment and political instability, the leftist Front populaire under socialist Lon Blum won a parliamentary majority in 1936 and proceeded to carry out a number of sweeping reforms.
Among them: the five-day workweek, graduated wage hikes, nationalization of the railroads and the Banque de France and the introduction of two-week paid vacations for all workers.
The vacations, at least, were excellent for Schuellers business.
All of a sudden Frenchmen and women from all economic levels were thronging the beaches and basking in the sun.
Sales of Ambre Solaire, LOrals recently launched sunscreen, skyrocketed.
But in spite of that boost to his bottom line, Schueller saw nothing good in the new leftist policies.
For that matter, he had little use for democracy, which he believed brought only incompetent people to power.
And the fact that the Front populaire government was headed by a socialist Jew did not raise his opinion of it.
Among the many French far-right groups that sprang up in the political ferment of the 1930s, probably none was more radical than La Cagouleor the hood.
This anti-Communist, anti-Republican, and anti-Semitic group was aimed at replacing the Third Republic with a dictatorship modeled on Germany, Italy or Spain.
Attracted by Schuellers ideasand doubtless his deep pockets the charismatic Cagoule leader Eugne Deloncle recruited him as a member of his group.
Schueller provided financial support and made space available to the Cagoule in LOrals offices.
And while there is no proof that Schueller himself was involved in the Cagoules violent plots, the organization that he supported and helped to finance was behind some very nasty business.
Among the terrorist actions attributed to the Cagoule were a series of assassinations, the bombing of the French employers association, and even an abortive coup dtat in November 1937.
Schueller remained in his eyes a French patriot, but when he looked at the example of Germany and Italy, he could not help admiring the authority, order and efficiency that reigned there.
Schueller and his fellow Cagoulards, as they were known, soon had the opportunity to observe German order at closer range.
In the spring of 1940, the Wehrmachts armored divisions circumvented Frances supposedly impregnable Maginot Line, invading Belgium.
From there, the Blitzkrieg rolled into France, entering Paris unopposed on June 14.
The unprecedented collapse of the French forces in 1940 was a source of national humiliation; for those of Schuellers persuasion, it was further proof of the failure of democratic government.
Under the occupation, Schuellers writings and lectures became more explicitly pro-Nazi and anti-Republican.
In his 1941 book, La rvolution de lconomie, for example, he wrote, I know full well that we dont have the chance that the Nazis did, coming to power in 1933... We dont have the gift that the Germans hadWe dont have the faith of national-socialism.
We dont have the dynamism of a Hitler pushing the world.
Elsewhere in this volumewhich was part of a collection that also published a compendium of Hitlers speechesSchueller wrote, We must rip from mens hearts the childish concepts of liberty, equality, and even fraternity, which can only lead to disaster.
Following the German victory, Deloncles Cagoule operated openly with the blessing of the Nazi occupiers and the collaborationist Vichy government.
And in June 1941, at the groups convention, Schueller made this startling statement: None of these .
peaceful revolutions can happen without first of all a .
preliminary revolution, of both purification and revival, and that one .
can only be bloody.
It will consist quite simply of quickly shooting fifty or a hundred important personages.
He promoted similar ideas, along with his economic theories, in broadcasts over the German-controlled French radio.
Schueller was also connected with notorious German official Helmut Knochen, the commander of police and security for the SS intelligence service.
Actively involved in the deportation of French Jews to the Nazi death camps, Knochen was also responsible for the execution of several thousand French Resistance members and civilian hostages.
Interrogated by French intelligence services after the war, he listed Schueller among his voluntary collaborators.
In 1947, French investigators discovered a list of 45 agents of Knochen.
Among them: E. Schueller.
Businessman.
He was seeking to get himself named Minister of the National Economy in the Vichy government, Knochen told interrogators.
Schueller never won that coveted post, but he was designated as the future minister of National and Imperial Production on a list that Knochen drew up in 1941.
Perhaps most importantly, Schueller was also instrumental in forging a partnership between Valentinea large paint and varnish manufacturer that Schueller was co-director of and the German firm Druckfarben.
Archival documents, including an internal journal for 1941 to 1944 indicate that as much as 95 percent of the companys wartime tonnage was delivered to the German Navy.
According to the Reichs Paint Plan, Valentine was listed since 1941 in the first category of paint suppliers.
Gerhart Schmilinsky, a German businessman who helped to establish the partnership, was a key figure in the Nazis Aryanization program to strip Jewish owners of their businesses and other property.
Schmilinsky worked closely with Schueller, whom he praised as an ardent partisan of the Franco-German accord.
Thanks largely to his relations with the Germans, says French historian Annie Lacroix-Riz, Schueller augmented his fortune considerably during the war.
His tax returns for the period show that his personal net income increased nearly tenfold between 1940 (248,791 francs) and 1943 (2,347,957 francs).
Between 1940 and 1944, LOreals sales nearly quadrupled.
Schueller had cause to regret his dubious declarations and political associations once the German occupiers fled the country in advance of the Allied armies in 1944.
Their departure fueled a bloody wave of reprisals known as the puration in which Resistance groups carried out summary executions of suspected collaboratorssometimes following hasty trials by peoples courtsbefore special courts were created to hand out sentences within a framework of due process.
At the end of the war, Eugne Schueller was swept up in this net of score-settling when a disgruntled former employee denounced him as a collaborator in a report to an official body formed to investigate the wartime activities of businesses.
On November 6, 1946, the committee imposed professional sanctions on him for advancing the enemys designs by his public attitude during the Occupation.
His case was sent to the Court of Justice of the Department of the Seine, where he was formally charged with economic and political collaboration.
But detailed accounting of wartime sales to the Germans by LOral showed relatively modest levels and investigating magistrate, Judge Marcel Gagne, ruled that Schueller could not be convicted for economic collaboration due to the minimal percentage of German business and to the fact that the merchandise delivered was of no direct military interest.
Of course, this doesnt explain how LOrals sales soared during the war.
Even if the company did not record significant sales to the Germans, it is inconceivable that LOral could obtain the necessary raw materials, energy and transportation without the approval of the occupiers.
But by hiding behind the complicated corporate structures in place in Valentines partnership with Drukfarben, Schueller was able to mask his involvement as an important supplier to the German war machine.
For paint, unlike cosmetics, is a highly strategic military product: No ship sails, no plane flies, no tank rolls without paint.
The full extent of Schuellers political collaboration similarly escaped the notice of postwar investigators.
On this charge, the judge concluded that Schueller showed a certain activity in favor of the ideas of Franco-German collaboration, and that he did in fact belong and contribute funds to Deloncles Cagoule.
But Schueller claimed that he had never belonged to the group.
Deloncle, he said, had lured him into a relationship by professing interest in his economic theories, then used his name in his propaganda.
Whats more, Schueller was able to call on various witnesses to support his claims that he had sheltered Jewish employees, aided staffers who resisted obligatory labor in Germany and that he had also secretly financed the Resistance.
Not least among Schuellers defenders were future president Franois Mitterrand and Schuellers future son-in-law and soon-to-be vice president of LOreal, Andr Bettencourt, both of them active in the Resistance.
Though, Schueller would also hand out positions to his other wartime contacts.
Eugne Deloncles son Louis later joined the Spanish branch of LOraljust one of many ex-Cagoulards who were welcomed into Schuellers company after the war.
In the end, Judge Gagne recommended that all charges against Schueller be dropped.
That judgment officially cleaned Schuellers slate and allowed him to remain at the helm of his businesses.
Had he been convicted, Schueller could have been removed from LOrals leadership, disgraced, jailedor worsewhile the company itself would have faced the threat of nationalization.
But a combination of money, connections, and luck spared Eugne Schueller that indignityand perhaps even saved him from a firing squad.
Adapted from The Bettencourt Affair: The Worlds Richest Woman and the Scandal that Rocked Paris by Tom Sancton, published on Aug. 8, 2017, by Dutton, an imprint of Penguin Publishing Group, a division of Penguin Random House, LLC.
Copyright  2017 by Thomas A. Sancton.
In a large theatre room close to Bangkoks Grand Palace, 20 architects from the Thai governments Fine Arts Department are working tirelessly on the finer details of a giant, ornate funeral pyre.
Mere feet from their room, their pencilled designs are taking physical form.
Nine steel pavilions, rising several stories high, have already been erected at the centre of the royal cremation park, or Sanam Luang.
The skeletal thrones that stood bare just weeks ago have now been adorned with gilded and carved cedar, teak and timber.
Everything must be ready for October 26 when Thailands beloved monarch of 70 years, Bhumibol Adulyadej, also known as Rama IX, will be cremated one year after his passing.
You see, I could try and have Garuda there, says Naruporn Saowanit almost to himself, referencing the mythical bird-like creature of Hindu and Buddhist mythology.
After all, thats the royal emblem.
He adds, his voice trailing off as he uses a pencil to retrace the single roofing strut hes been working on for hours.
Or, I could try and use an image of the great swan.
When it comes to crafting a royal funeral pyre the devil is in the detail.
Every carving, flick of the paint brush, or wooden strut has been designed, excoriated and redesigned multiple times.
His ruminations over the tiniest technicality is matched by his colleagues, who for months now have worked nearly non-stop to ensure this project, while guaranteed to be remembered, is quite literally fit for a king.
Yet the agony of choice, and mounds of discarded paper, belies the rigidity in design.
Charinee Artachinda, a colleague of Saowanit, describes their process as adding small evolutions within, not revolutions overshadowing, the tradition.
In traditional Thai art and architecture, we have different levels to our art and design, explains Artachinda, as she leafs through some books of royal designs.
The books themselves are part history, part instruction.
Stored in the libraries of major universities, they offer the reader loose guides to design possibilities and historical precedent.
Every now and again she points to tessellating patterns or symbols and underlines their importance, stating, royal.
Now we know and can pass on the knowledge of this tradition.
It is very important.
She says, explaining that in design school, no one taught her how to prepare for a Kings funeral  its bad luck.
Instead, the tradition of a royal cremation  which has roots tracing back to the 17th-century Ayutthaya Kingdom  has historically been passed on by studying historical images, or through word of mouth among funeral rite practitioners.
Yet with Rama IXs reign lasting so long, few architects or artists remain who can claim that first-hand experience, meaning a little more interpretation is expected.
In fact, after 70 years on the throne, there are few Thais, full stop, who remember the last kings funeral, nor how to act accordingly.
The Thai government announced shortly after his death that it would publish 10,000 copies of a royal glossary just so those in attendance can follow along to a ritual performed in the Pali-Sanskrit royal tongue.
Today, Thailands confusing religious syncretism is rarely as obvious and alive as it is in royal affairs.
In royal funerals in particular, Hindu and Buddhist concepts of cosmology take center stage.
The dais is adorned with symbols and carvings that make up part of an estimated 500 statues, ranging from animals to gods, touching on both Hindu and Buddhist themes.
Among the 12 intricate, hand-painted standing deities, one group of a half-dozen artists work solely on a Phra Phrom, Thai for Brahma, the god of creation in Hinduism.
In the middle of the grounds, nine ceremonial throne pavilions, or Busabok, help mark out a concentric design that builds up to the narrow 50-meter-tall Busabok at the very center, within which the kings body will sit  in a coffin no less; a decision made in advance by the late king that breaks with the traditional urns used in the past.
This main funeral pyre structure is itself a representation of Mount Meru, the centre of the Hindu universe.
In an enclosed incinerator within the central spire structure, the late kings body will be cremated on the second of five days worth of funereal ceremonies.
In line with more Hindu practices, the cremation itself will in turn be blessed by the highest Buddhist monks in the land.
Elsewhere around Sanam Luang, icons recalling some of the accomplishments of the late kings reign will dot the grounds.
From model reservoirs to water mills and rice fields, King Bhumibols work with the poorest Thais is being honored just as much as the man himself, as it was that focus and empathy that helped make him so widely adored in the country.
It is also why no cost was spared when it came to building the pyre itself.
With an estimated budget of 1 billion baht ($30 million), the funeral pyres magnificence will nonetheless dissolve following the cremation ceremony, disassembled with weeks of finishing.
The finest stand alone sections will head to museums, while others will be broken down and distributed to temples around the country.
I first met Hartmut Esslingerwhom the Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum honored for lifetime achievement in this years National Design Awardswhen I interviewed him for Forbes in 1999.
For a designer of seamlessly perfect consumer products, his hair back then seemed to have defied any attempt at combing.
Today, nothing has changed, except for the graying of that resistant hair.
At the time of our first interview, the founder of Frog Design (which Esslinger sold between 2005 and 2007) was setting what turned out to be a very high standard for the look and feel of Apple products.
The whimsical sounding name Frog simply stands for Esslingers home country, the Federal Republic of Germany.
The company worked with Steve Jobs to revolutionize computer design with the Apple IIc and the Mac SE, a small, one-piece machine that changed forever the way computers were built and bought.
Though the charismatic Jobs is often given credit for making design essential to the success of Apple, Esslinger was his guru.
Born in Beuren, Germany in 1944, Esslinger later served as a logistics officer in the German army.
I had the leadership gene, he told me recently, his accent still more than a touch Teutonic.
He began drawing as a teenager, and graduated from design school at the age of 25, much to the concern of his mother.
She had lost family members in the Nazi death camps, and feared that the arts would once again be condemned, so she burned his sketchbooks.
Undeterred, Esslinger followed his leadership gene and formed Esslinger Design in 1969 (which later became Frog Design).
The company was hired in 1974 by Sony, where Esslinger helped create the iconic Trinitron color television.
This coming October, a ceremony and dinner at the Cooper Hewitt Design Museum in New York City will celebrate Esslinger and the other winners of the 18th annual National Design Awards.
The ceremony coincides with National Design Week, and honors 11 individuals and organizations described by Cooper Hewitt director Caroline Baumann as having elevated our understanding of what great American design is and what it can do to improve the world.
Along with Esslinger, this years winners are: Susan S. Szenasy (Directors Award), Craig L Wilkins (Design Mind), Design Trust for Public Space (Corporate & Institutional Achievement), Jennifer Morla (Communication Design), Slow and Steady Wins the Race (Fashion Design), Stamen Design (Interaction Design), Deborah Berke Partners (Interior Design), Surfacedesign (Landscape Architecture) and Joe Doucet (Product Design).
Recently, I met with Esslinger, Morla, and two of the three principals at Surfacedesign.
I was someone who considered the Mac SE a miraculous machine; on its tiny 7 by 6-inch screen I wrote three books.
So it was a surprise when Esslinger told me the SE was not a commercial success, despite the enthusiasm of writers and editors and its regular appearance on Jerrys desk in Seinfeld.
As seamless as the little SE was, according to Esslinger the process of producing it was fractured.
The Mac team was a group of idiots, he says.
They didnt have any idea how to make a commercial product.
The SE was a supply-side nightmare.
He also pointed out that because Jobs was notoriously abusive to his employees, many at Apple actually sabotaged his efforts.
But Steve and I hit it off, he says, and I knew all the tricks.
When Jobs was forced out of Apple, Esslinger broke with the company and went with Jobs to a new venture, NeXT, which produced a remarkable line of groundbreaking hardware designs.
His work in later yearsfor Lufthansa, Olympus cameras, Motorola, General Electric and many other companieshas always been guided by the principle stated in the title for his book about the history of Apple design, Keep It Simple.
Esslinger complains that despite a rise in the importance of good design, theres still a lot of crap being produced.
In his mid-70s, he goes on designing, he says, because the crap keeps coming.
One of the biggest surprises of my encounter with the great designer, which included several email exchanges, was his regular use of emojis.
I sat down with James A. Lord and Roderick Wyllie, two of the three principals at Surfacedesign (the third is Geoff di Girolamo) under rough-hewn redwood beams in their sprawling office spacea former fire stationon Pier 33 on San Franciscos Embarcadero waterfront.
We spoke in a conference room with a breeze off the bay wafting through a window, surrounded by drawings of current projects tacked to the walls.
In the large main room, a dozen or so young landscape architects worked on their computers.
Surfacedesign, founded in 2001, works in scales ranging from residential gardens to a 40-acre park currently being designed for Seattle.
The company has created a plaza at the south end of the Golden Gate Bridge to commemorate the famed structures 75th anniversary, and worked on the landscape renewal of Lands End, one of the most appealingand most neglectedof San Franciscos natural wonders.
A large planning drawing taped to the wall of the conference room depicts a future waterfront public park in front of the new arena for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors.
Farther afieldquite a bit fartherthe firm created the IBM Plaza in Honolulu, and is currently redesigning the area around the international airport at Auckland in New Zealand, where James Lords mother is from.
This is one of several projects in that country.
Lord illustrates the firms dedication to what he calls culturally based design when he reminisces that as a kid flying in and out of Aukland he used to see goats and sheep grazing and Maoris on horseback around small encampments.
Eventually, he says, this characteristic scene gave way to global homogenization, making it indistinguishable from countless airports anywhere and everywhere.
You couldnt tell Aukland from Oakland, Lord says.
Surfacedesign is now working to make the area once again look like the entrance to a unique country.
Lord studied architecture at the University of Southern California and landscape design at Harvard, and Wyllie studied music as an undergraduate at the University of California at Santa Cruz (and played in punk bands) and also did his graduate work at Harvard.
Both seem happy combinations of pragmatist and philosopher.
They look at piles of dirt and see the future.
Projects like the Golden Gate Bridge Plaza are conceived by the minds at Pier 33, but they are built by men and women in hardhats who may not have experienced what Wyllie describes a a sense of connection between the built and natural world.
Yet the partners told me that they hope to give people who normally build freeways something more meaningful to work on.
Jennifer Morla, winner of the award for Communication Design (which, she told me, is graphic design with more dimensions), has worked for some of the most prestigious companies in the San Francisco Bay area, including Levis, Design Within Reach, Wells Fargo, and the public TV and radio station KQED.
The chief executive of the highly successful Morla Design, which she founded in 1984, she looks every inch a designer, with a precision haircut that manages not to look precise and impressive dark frame eyeglasses.
Though she was born and grew up Manhattan and graduated from the University of Hartford in Connecticut and the Massachusetts College of Art in Boston, she established her own company in San Francisco because, she says, in the early 1980s the city had many fewer design firms than New York City.
As a graphic artist and designer, Morla has produced a spectacular array of posters, including one for San Francisco's bid for the 2012 Olympics, another to honor dissent in Iran after a disputed election, and one to celebrate the Mexican Museum in San Francisco.
But as a communication designer, her work has those added dimensions she talks about.
On some assignments, she told me, she takes a company and finds the look and feel of what its about.
For instance, hired in 1991 by Wells Fargo Bank to redesign the ATM card, Morla ended up with a huge job that involved rethinking the entire image of the venerable company.
She designed more than 100 pieces of bank material, using the cachet of a Western theme (Wells is the oldest bank in the West) to unite a highly decentralized organization.
Thus, a stage coach now rolls through the wide landscape of the Wells Fargo world.
This work exemplifies one of Morlas credos: A conceptual idea with a pragmatic solution.
Morla is a designer with the ability to find those solutions in the full spectrum of visual, tactile and philosophical work.
Looking at the broad range of Morlas accomplishments, up to and including interior design, her many dimensions are evident.
Given the assignment of rejuvenating the venerable Levis brand, she created the look and feel of Levis retail stores, even designing carpets and furniture.
Walking into one of these stores, you might get a feeling more Ralph Lauren than Levi Strauss.
And yet in all of her work, its not easy to see a signature look beyond the inventive visual imagination.
This is the way she wants it.
I dont have a stylistic approach, she says.
I look for whats appropriate for the problem at hand.
This is what keeps me interested.
When I wake up, I go through my music collection to find the music I feel like hearing.
It may be a Bach concerto, an old Lead Belly album, an Indian morning raga, or one of my favorite contemporary African pop stars.
When I drive to work, I can effortlessly flip channels between pop, rock, jazz, country, bluegrass, opera and the Wiggles, depending on mood and company.
My phone extends and personalizes the choice almost infinitely.
We take this musical diversity for granted, just as we can casually decide for Italian, Mexican, Thai, or Lebanese food when we crave those tastes.
The diversity of people, histories and cultures in this country has led to a rich variety of sounds, styles and genres that can keep us exploring for a lifetime.
When you come to reflect on it, this is quite surprising.
The engagement with music is one of the most universal activities of humans that does not have a direct link to our survival as a species.
Nobody ever died from music depravation, yet we work and worship to music, dance and court to music, make love and relax to music, rejoice and grieve with music.
With the developments in migration, travel and technology over the past 70 years (which in retrospect we will probably regard as the most significant period of musical change of the past two millennia), two important things have happened.
The first is that we have millions of pieces of music from all over the world at our fingertips.
CDs, DVDs, downloads, YouTube and other streaming offer a baffling choice of musics.
It is good to remember that less than 300 years ago, Johann Sebastian Bach had to walk through the rain for days (and almost lost his job) just to hear Buxtehude, another organist, play in a church in Lbeck.
The other major effect is that a great number of small musics are being marginalized.
Just as we can access music from inner Mongolia and the Amazonian rain forest, people in those regions are listening to Christian hymns, military band tunes and Western pop music, often pushed with considerable force by missionaries, colonial powers, and thenow effectively collapsedinternational music industry that has for more than a century largely determined what we listen to.
While musics have always emerged and disappeared through changing tastes or circumstances, some small musics are in the words of former Smithsonian Folkways director Tony Seegerbeing disappeared by non-musical influences and powers.
That is causing a substantial reduction in the diversity of music we can access and enjoy now, and even more so in the future.
As an academic, it is tempting to seek out such musics in need so that they can be recorded and described for future generations.
In that way, a picture of the musical sound and some knowledge of its context can be preserved.
But this salvage ethnomusicology does not create a future for the living, breathing tradition, which has the power to engage, involve and excite.
I realized this when I first visited Vietnam more than 10 years ago.
Escaping from the traditional tourist outing at a music education conference, I joined a faculty member of the National Academy of Music for a visit to her ca tr teacher in a small village outside Hanoi.
I heard the refined sung poetry accompanied by a long-necked lute and clapsticks, and learned the genre had all but died.
Since the 1950s, the government had discouraged the tradition because of its association with decadence.
While it had blossomed in the first half of the century, now there was virtually no performance practice, no transmission system, no audience, no support from patrons or government and no media exposure.
In other words, the cultural ecosystem that tends to support music practices around the world had collapsed for ca tr.
The plight of ca tr prompted memories of other music practices I had come to know: the Western classical music I grew up with, the North Indian classical music I had been studying for 30 years, and the many traditions I had encountered through my long involvement with world music initiatives: Spanish flamenco, West African percussion, Indonesian gamelan, Turkish saz, Japanese traditional music, etc.
Somehow, it seemed that the vibrancy of a music practice could not be explained simply by referring to the beauty of its sound or the complexity of its structure (even if we could agree on who is qualified to judge that across cultures).
Rather, a complex web of external forces appeared to be in play.
Sharing these ideas with dozens of colleagues in music business, performance, education, policy and research, we came to define five domainsor clusters of forcesthat seem to impact the sustainability of most music practices: systems of learning music; musicians and communities; context and constructs (the values and attitudes underlying how any music practice is created, learned, and performed); infrastructure (the hardware of music, from instruments to concert halls) and regulations (including copyright laws, subsidies and taxes); and media and the music industry.
Virtually every music practice deals with each of these five domains in negotiating its place in the contemporary world of sound.
We were fortunate to receive generous funding from the Australian Research Council to spend five years to test this idea on nine very different music practices spanning the gambit from very vibrant to moribund (not likely to survive beyond this century).
As part of our international research collaboration Sustainable Futures for Music Cultures (2009-2014), nine international research teams carefully examined traditions ranging from Mexican mariachi to Korean samulnori; from Indian ragas to West African ewe dance-percussion; and from Aboriginal womens songs in Central Australia to Western opera.
From this research, a picture of a fine-mazed net of forces working on the sustainability of any music practice emerged.
In each domain, there were a number of prominent forces: engaged communities, well-developed systems of handing down the music, laws and infrastructure conducive to vibrant music-making, quality exposure through media and on the Internet, and a high regard for the music practice.
These can be found (clockwise) in the model we developed to render a generic representation of Ecosystems of Music.
For ca tr, this model may be the key to a new lease on life.
Musicians and sympathizers are helping to restore transmission processes and a sense of community by reviving the guilds that used to play a central role in the practice.
The prestige drastically increased once the government succeeded to get it recognized by UNESCO as Intangible Cultural Heritage in 2009.
Government rules once condemning the practice of the genre have now made place for support; and the media is giving greater attention to this important part of the Vietnamese musical legacy.
In addition, several ca tr guilds are now performing for a substantial and culturally engaged tourist market in historical venues in Hanoi, bringing in money to support the musicians.
These forces factor differently in the precise working of each music practice.
We found the role of media to be central in Hindustani music, but only marginal in Central Australia.
Some music practices (like opera) need extensive infrastructure and financial support, while others (like mariachi) have very modest needs.
In general, we found that mapping out all these forces gave a fairly accurate impression of the strengths and challenges for the nine music practices in their present-day realities.
In addition, the essentially dynamic nature of this model provides new perspectives on the high-profile initiatives based on UNESCOs 2001, 2003 and 2005 Declarations and Conventions, which have unmistakably raised global awareness of threats to intangible cultural heritage like never before.
However, theselargely government-driveninitiatives have tended to approach music practices as artifacts rather than as living practices, which can help preserve music as product but runs the risk of losing its connection to community and ongoing creativity, widely seen to be hallmarks of living traditions.
We are living in a time when many music cultures are in a critical state of survival in terms of support, exposure, prestige, transmission processes and infrastructure.
This is the time for all of us who love, make, or work in music to collaborate with communities across the world to empower them to forge musical futures on their own terms.
As we have seen in our research, both small and major gestures make a difference for music practices in transition and at risk, especially if the driving force behind this is not nostalgia or neo-colonialism, but appreciation of the idea that with a little effort and insight, it is possible to negotiate ecologies of musical diversity in a globalized, mediatized world.
A version of this article was originally published in the online magazine of the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
At an early age, Jacob Lawrence knew something was missing from his education.
Ive always been interested in history, but they never taught Negro history in the public schools.
Sometimes they mentioned it in history clubs, but I never liked that way of presenting it.
It was never studied seriously like regular subjects, the prominent black artist once said.
It was this absence of black stories and black historyand his desire for them to be considered essential to understanding the American experiencethat inspired his lifes work: from simple scenes to sweeping series, his art told the stories of everyday life in Harlem, stories of segregation in the South, and stories of liberation, resistance and resilience that were integral to African American and American history.
Lawrence was born in Atlantic City 100 years ago on September 7, 1917.
Raised for a time in Philadelphia, he came of age in 1930s New York, heavily inspired by the cultural and artistic ethos of the Harlem Renaissance.
A number of his works are among the collections of the Smithsonians museums.
At a time when the mainstream art world wasnt open to black artists, Lawrence immersed himself in everything his neighborhood had to offer: he trained at the Harlem Art Workshop, studied under and shared a workspace with painter Charles Alston and was mentored, among others, by sculptor Augusta Savage, who helped him gain work through the WPA Federal Art Project.
He was a quiet individual who listened, looked, watched, absorbed all of what was going on around him, according to Virginia Mecklenburg, chief curator at Smithsonian American Art Museum, home to nearly a dozen of Lawrences works.
Lawrences subjects and style were deliberate, conscientious choices.
He formed his practice during a period when black artists were carefully considering their role and responsibility in depicting African American history and contemporary life.
In Harlem, Lawrence was surrounded and educated by progressive artists who admired the historical rebels who had advocated revolutionary struggle to advance the cause of the oppressed, writes art historian Patricia Hill in her book Painting Harlem Modern: The Art of Jacob Lawrence.
From them, he was inspired to tell historical epics centered around major figures, all of whom have once been enslaved.
His early series told the stories of Toussaint LOuverture (1938), who led the struggle for Haitis independence, Frederick Douglass (1939), the great abolitionist and statesman, and Harriet Tubman (completed 1940), the celebrated conductor of the Underground Railroad.
And how he told those stories mattered as much as choosing to tell them.
Throughout his career, Lawrence painted with vibrant and bold colors and remained dedicated to an expressive figurative style, one that lent itself to visual narration.
Jacquelyn Serwer, chief curator at National Museum of African American History and Culture, which features Lawrences Dixie Caf (1948) in its exhibition "Visual Art and the American Experience," says he wanted to make sure that important aspects of African American history were documented in a way that could be appreciated and understood by a very broad audience.
If he adhered too closely to the modernist, abstract trends of the mid-20th century, he risked limiting those who could connect with his art.
Certainly, the commitment to figuration was a political one, says Evelyn Hankins, senior curator at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, which counts Lawrences Vaudeville (1951) among its collections.
For his most renowned work, Lawrence turned to an event that had defined his own life.
The son of parents who moved during the Great Migrationwhen millions of African Americans escaped the Jim Crow South to seek better lives in the North and Westhe painted the stories hed been told.
Across 60 panels, he showed, and spelled out in the titles, the harsh racial injustice and economic difficulty African Americans faced in the South and the opportunities that brought them to places of greater hope.
The Phillips Memorial Gallery (now known as the Phillips Collection) and the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) purchased the Migration Series (1941) the year following its completion.
While each museum took half of the series for their permanent collectionsdividing it by even and odd numbered panelsthe full series has been exhibited a number of times, most recently in 2016 at the Phillips Collection.
Not only had Lawrence achieved a major personal success at 24, the sale was important for another reason: it marked the first time that MOMA had purchased artwork by an African American artist.
Much of his prodigious output was in genre paintings and in the portrayal of everyday scenes; he drew what he knew from his life in Harlem.
One example, The Library (1960), depicts a few black figures reading books that reference African artwork.
Curators speculate that the reading room may show the 135th Street Librarynow the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culturewhere the country's first significant collection of African American literature, history and prints opened in 1925.
It was at that library Lawrence spent hours researching his historical epics, poring over black history and heritage.
In painting this scene, he spotlighted the discovery and learning catalyzed by the Harlem Renaissance.
If The Library offers a view of a comparative oasis in the North, a look at Lawrences Bar and Grill (1941) illustrates a sense of the stark reality in the South.
The artist first visited the region when he and his wife, fellow artist Gwendolyn Knight, traveled to New Orleans in 1941.
Although hed depicted Jim Crow segregation in his Migration Series, the personal exposure to the harsh Southern laws left Lawrence shaken, and he went on to explore the experience in a number of works.
Emphasizing the artificial barrier between the two races, Bar and Grill puts in plain view the falsehood of separate but equal: the white customers are kept comfortable and cool on their side, attended to by the bartender, while the black patrons are relegated to a less spacious, overlooked section, emblematic of their second-class status in the South.
World War II again brought Lawrence in close contact with Southern racism: drafted into the Coast Guard in 1943, he trained in St. Augustine, Florida.
He was later assigned to the Navys first integrated ship, where he was able to paint as part of his deployment.
Lawrence and Knight would later return to the South in 1946 where he taught a summer course at Black Mountain College, a liberal arts school in North Carolina.
Invited there by the head instructor, German abstract artist Josef Albers, he and Gwendolyn steered clear of nearby Asheville, aware of the racism they might encounter there.
On their journey down, Albers even reserved a private train car for the couple to avoid having to make the humiliating move from integrated train cars to Jim Crow cars once they passed the Mason-Dixon Line.
Having documented historic liberation struggles, Lawrence soon turned to explore the contemporary civil rights movement.
As art historian Ellen Harkins Wheat wrote, responding to this era of turmoil and antiwar upheaval.
Lawrence produced a body of work that manifests his most overt social protest.
Involved in fundraising for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), Lawrence painted scenes of counter sit-ins, freedom riders and protestors clashing with the police.
During his six decades as a practicing painter, Lawrence influenced a number of other artists.
He began teaching at Pratt Institute in 1956 and, when the Lawrences lived in Nigeria in the early 60s, he offered workshops to young artists in Lagos.
After stints teaching at the New School, Art Students League and Brandeis University, his final move was to Seattle in 1971 for a professorship at University of Washington.
Lawrences celebrated career was filled with further milestones: he was a representative for the United States at 1956 Venice Biennale and he was awarded both the NAACPs Spingarn Medal in 1970 and the National Medal of Arts in 1990.
Until his death in 2000, he continued to paint and exhibit his work, even during a brief period spent in a psychiatric institution recovering from stress and exhaustion.
A century after his birth, his work remains relevant and resonant, thanks to his remarkable storytelling.
The human dimension in his art makes people who have no interest in art, or no experience with, or real knowledge of art, look at Lawrences work and.
see stories that they could find in their own lives, says Mecklenburg.
The year was 1958 and some radio stations were refusing to play a song that was making its way up the pop charts.
But it wasnt Elvis Presley who was causing the furorit was the similarly coiffed Link Wray.
Related Content The Pop Charts' Native Roots

Born in rural east-central North Carolina, Wray was peddling his own form of musical subversion.
Unknown to his small but growing fan base was the fact that Wray hailed from the Shawnee tribe.
Wray wasnt about to proclaim his Native American heritage out loud in an era when bigotry and racism was the norm.
But his song, an instrumental called "Rumble" and his musical styling, a garage rock sound driven by power chords and distortionachieved in part by poking holes in his guitar amplifierput the nation on notice.
It expressed an unsettled, edgy feeling that DJs worried might just incite a riot.
In Boston and New York, radio stations banned "Rumble."
For Native Americans, it evoked memories of the governments prohibition against certain tribal songs and dances at the turn of the 20th century.
But the ban didnt stop "Rumble" from hitting number 16 on the pop charts and becoming a touchstone for musicians as varied as Jimmy Page, Jeff Beck, Iggy Pop, Bob Dylan, Guns and Roses, the Foo Fighters and the Dave Clark Five.
"Rumble" is the linchpin for a new documentary that firmly establishes Native Americans as key players in the rise of the blues, rock 'n' roll and pop music in the United States.
The movie, Rumble: The Indians Who Rocked the World, is based on a 2010 exhibition at the Smithsonians National Museum of the American Indian that was curated by Stevie Salas and Tim Johnson.
Salas, an Apache who temporarily joined the Smithsonian to work on the exhibition, is a long-time rock and funk guitarist who has played with Rod Stewart and George Clinton.
He also produced the film.
Salas has been shepherding Rumble to film festivals around the world, where it has been getting a lot of attention.
At Sundance, it picked up a special storytelling award, and it won Audience Favorite at Hot Docs in Toronto.
The film has been in national theatrical release since late July and will continue its run through Labor Day or perhaps longer.
Rumble wasnt conceived as a victim movie, says Salas.
"I wanted to make a film about heroes," he says.
Guitar gods are practically clich in the rock world, but the concept works in the movie, especially since so many of the musicians interviewed were completely unaware of their heroesand the films subjectsNative American roots.
"The sound of [Wray's] guitar embodied all my aspirations," says guitarist Wayne Kramer.
"It was the sound of freedom," says Kramer, whose band MC5 is considered a pioneer of punk in America.
Robbie Robertson, a founding member of The Band, and a Mohawk, says the song "Rumble" changed everything.
"It made an indelible mark on the whole evolution of where rock 'n' roll was gonna go," he says.
"And then I found out that hes an Indian."
The movie closely follows the 2010 Smithsonian exhibit, but also expands on it, making the connections between Native American traditions and the roots of popular music more obvious.
Rumble takes a trip through the birth of gospel and jazz, folk, and rock 'n' roll.
It makes a brief stop in New Orleans, where African Americans with Native American heritageincluding the citys world-famous Neville familyhave a long tradition of forming "Indian" groups that march in handmade beaded and feathered finery on Mardi Gras Day.
Their drumming and chanting is not that far removed from Africaor their Native American tribal roots.
The film's narrative moves up the Mississippi, landing in the delta, where in the 1920s Charley Patton (African American/Choctaw) set the juke joints afire with his pioneering blues style, inspiring Muddy Waters and Dylan, among others.
"When I hear this, its Indian music to me," says Pura Fe (Tuscarora/Taino), a singer and musician with Ulali, who pounds out the beat of Pattons "Down the Dirt Road Blues" in the film.
Buffy Sainte-Marie (Cree) and Peter La Farge (Narragansett) burst onto the scene in the early 1960s just as Dylan was making Greenwich Village the center of the folk music universe.
La Farges "Ballad of Ira Hayes," about the Akimel Oodham Marine who helped raise the American flag on Iwo Jima, so moved Johnny Cash that he recorded "Bitter Tears," a Native American tribute album, in 1964.
Many DJs refused to play the record, which prompted an angry full-page ad in Billboard from the Man in Black.
The film also dips a toe into what some might consider controversial watersincluding Jimi Hendrix.
Salas says Hendrix, who was in the Smithsonian exhibition, also needed to be in the film.
The desire was driven in part by Salas conversation with Hendrix sister Janie, who shared stories about the important role their paternal grandmotherwho was part Cherokeeplayed in the rock guitarists musical and personal life.
When it came to choosing who to feature in the film, "if they didnt live it," they werent included, says Salas.
Hendrix was not a special exception, he says.
But Salas acknowledges that not everyone agreed.
PBSwhich bought future broadcast rightsdid not consider Hendrix a legitimate Native American hero.
No one would quibble with the inclusion of Jesse Ed Davis (Kiowa), a session guitarist whom Eric Clapton, John Lennon, Ringo Starr and George Harrison all desired toand eventually didrecord with.
A collaboration with Jackson Browne ended up creating one of the most memorable solos in pop music.
Davis life, however, did not have a fairy-tale ending.
He fell in and out of addiction, but before his death in 1988, he reconnected to his Native heritage.
Davis joined with poet John Trudell (Santee Sioux) on the 1986 record aka Graffiti Man.
The album featured Trudells musings on inequality, war and loss, layered over Davis sinuous guitar licks.
Trudella longtime activistis the films resident curmudgeon and provocateur.
His grounded-in-reality grit helps keep the film from becoming the sad-sack story that Salas wanted to avoid.
Just as Link Wrays "Rumble" altered the trajectory of rock 'n' roll, Salas hopes the movie will change perceptions about Indians contribution to American music.
Previously invisible, it now looms large on the screen.
"We rewrote Americans history," Salas says.
"Its never going back in the bottle.
Its there now, and its for real."
When al-Qaida Islamists invaded Mali, and then Timbuktu in 2012, among their targets were priceless manuscriptsbooks that needed to be burned.
But the damage couldve been much worse if not for men like Abdel Kader Haidara, who risked their lives to protect the medieval works.
He and others succeeded in smuggling out 350,000 manuscripts, proving not only how much the books were valued, but also the lengths to which ordinary people were willing to go to save them.
It was a remarkable victory in the long history of books threatened by would-be arsonistsand a relatively rare one at that.
Books and libraries have been targeted by people of all backgrounds for thousands of years, sometimes intentionally and sometimes as a side-effect of war.
In 213 B.C., Chinese emperor Qin Shi Huang (more widely remembered for his terracotta army in Xian) ordered a bonfire of books as a way of consolidating power in his new empire.
According to historian Lois Mai Chan, His basic objective was not so much to wipe out these schools of thought completely as to place them under governmental control.
Books of poetry, philosophy and history were specifically targeted, so that the new emperor couldnt be compared to more virtuous or successful rulers of the past.
Although the exact amount of information lost is unknown, Chan writes that the history genre suffered the greatest loss.
Qin was only one in a long line of ancient rulers who felt threatened enough by the ideas expressed in written form to advocate arson.
In Livys History of Rome, finished in the 1st century A.D., he describes past rulers who ordered books containing the predictions of oracles and details about celebrations like the Bacchanalia be outlawed and burned to prevent disorder and the spread of foreign customs; philosophers Giordano Bruno and Jan Hus both took positions counter to the Catholic church, the former for his work on Copernican cosmology, the latter for attacking church practices like indulgences.
Scholar Hans J. Hillerbrand writes that the executioner charged with killing heretics like Bruno and Hus was often the same person who put flame to their books.
But for Rebecca Knuth, author of Libricide: The Regime-Sponsored Destruction of Books and Libraries in the Twentieth Century and Burning Books and Leveling Libraries: Extremist Violence and Cultural Destruction, Qin and religious leaders like him are only a small part of the early book-burning equation.
A lot of ancient book burning was a function of conquest, Knuth says.
Just look at one of the most famous examples of burning, the destruction of the Library of Alexandria.
The famed building had its contents and structure burned during multiple periods of political upheaval, including in 48 B.C.
when Caesar chased Pompey to Egypt and when Caliph Omar invaded Alexandria in 640 A.D.

What changed everything was the printing press, invented by Johannes Gutenberg in 1440.
Not only were there suddenly far more booksthere was also more knowledge.
With the printing press you had the huge rise of literacy and modern science and all these things, Knuth says.
And some people in authoritarian regimes, in a way they want to turn back the effects of the printing press.
According to Knuth, the motives behind book burning changed after the printing press helped bring about the Enlightenment erathough burning through the collateral damage of war continued to arise (just consider the destruction of the U.S. Library of Congress during the War of 1812 or all the libraries destroyed across Europe during World War II).
People saw knowledge as a way to change themselves, and the world, and so it became a far more dangerous commodity, no longer controlled exclusively by the elite.
What better way to reshape the balance of power and send a message at the same time than by burning books?
The unifying factor between all types of purposeful book-burners in the 20th century, Knuth says, is that the perpetrators feel like victims, even if theyre the ones in power.
Perhaps the most infamous book burnings were those staged by Adolf Hitler and the Nazis, who regularly employed language framing themselves as the victims of Jews.
Similarly, when Mao Zedong took power in China and implemented the Cultural Revolution, any book that didnt conform to party propaganda, like those promoting capitalism or other dangerous ideas, were destroyed.
More recently, the Jaffna Public Library of Sri Lankahome to nearly 100,000 rare books of Tamil history and literaturewas burned by Sinhalese Buddhists.
The Sinhalese felt their Buddhist beliefs were under threat by the Hinduism of Tamils, even though they outnumbered the Tamils.
Even when the knowledge itself isnt prevented from reaching the public, the symbolic weight of burning books is heavy.
Books are not absolutely dead things, but do contain a potency of life in them as to be as active as that soul was whose progeny they are, wrote John Milton, author of Paradise Lost, in his 1644 book Areopagitica.
Who kills a man kills a reasonable creature but he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself an idea that continues to be espoused in modern culture, like in Ray Bradburys Fahrenheit 451.
A book is a loaded gun in the house next door, one character warns another in Bradburys story, arguing for why they must be burned and their knowledge erased.
Who knows who might be the target of the well-read man?
Or, as author Barbara Tuchman said in her 1980 address at the Library of Congress, Books are the carriers of civilization.
Without books, history is silent, literature dumb, science crippled, thought and speculation at a standstill.
Without books, the development of civilization would have been impossible.
Today, with new technological advances offered by the Internet, the possibility of digitizing written documents seems to offer books a new immortality.
But not so fast, Knuth says.
We have technology to preserve so much knowledge, we just have to be careful.
If you dont keep morphing it to an updated form of technology, it doesnt matter if you made copies if you cant access them.
This is a problem archivists at the Smithsonian Institution regularly tackle, including electronic records archivist Lynda Schmitz Fuhrig.
There are software companies that have gone away or gone out of business, and some of that software just stops being used, Schmitz Fuhrig says.
And theres not only the issue of software, but also hardware and operating systems that may not work with these older files.
The archivists try to use formats that have been around for a long time and stood the test of time, like PDF for documents, but even keeping up with the changing technology doesnt guarantee safety.
Schmitz Fuhrig says one of the biggest challenges now is storage space.
A few years ago we were talking about gigabytes and then terabytes and now were getting into the area of petabytes.
Even though the technology exists, transferring written documents to digital archives requires time and moneyresources that arent always available.
Sometimes doing so is counter to the beliefs of whoever happens to be in power.
Just consider that under President George W. Bush EPA libraries were threatened with closure in 2006, spurring the American Library Association and scientists working at the EPA to put pressure on Congress to ensure the EPAs budget could cover the cost of maintaining the libraries (although some libraries were closed, they reopened in September 2008).
Or look at the scientific research documents that were locked away or destroyed under the Stephen Harper government in Canada in 2014, which had a chilling effect on the topics that could be researched and the studies that were published.
As scientist Steven Campana, who spent decades working for Canadas Department of Fisheries and Oceans, told Smithsonian.com, Although we still kept our jobs, we basically were prevented from actually doing any science.
Though the methods may be different (and less visible) than in the past, the results are the same: knowledge is purposefully taken from the public.
Technology has undoubtedly changed the way we share and save information, but Knuth argues that the core motivations for book burning, in whatever form the act takes, remain the same: prioritizing one type of information over another.
Thats why power is so scary, Knuth says.
Because power allows you to put into effect the logic of your own beliefs.
Imagine youre hiking in the mountains when a blizzard hits.
Despite your warm coat, your body temperature begins to drop.
But fear not.
Temperature sensors in the coat feel you getting colder, activating heating elements embedded in the fabric.
Perfectly toasty, you continue your hike.
Sounds like a smart idea, right?
Why is it not a reality?
In a word, batteries.
Battery technology has not advanced as quickly as wearable technology, meaning wearablessmartwatches, fitness trackers, clothing-embedded medical sensorsmust either be equipped with bulky batteries or plugged in to charge at frequent intervals.
Now, researchers in the UK have a new development that could lead to a solution: a flexible, battery-like device made of graphene that can be printed directly on almost anything.
You can print the batteries on a flexible substrate like textiles, says Mohammad Nazmul Karim, a fellow at the National Graphene Institute at the University of Manchester.
And it can be charged very rapidly.
The devices, recently described in the journal 2D Materials, are technically not batteries but supercapacitors, which store energy on their surfaces by static charge.
They can be charged extremely quickly compared to batteriesin seconds, rather than minutes or hoursand dont lose their energy storage capabilities over time, even after millions and millions of charges.
The supercapacitors developed by Karim and his team are made from graphene, a two-dimensional lattice of carbon only one atom thick.
The researchers used a basic screen printing technique to print a flexible supercapacitor of graphene-oxide ink onto cotton fabric.
The fabric can be worn, stretched and even thrown in the wash without destroying the supercapacitors charging capabilities.
If you have a piece of fabric and you apply graphene on that fabric, it doesnt only make it conductive, it also makes it stronger, Karim says.
Graphene can be stretched up to 20 percent larger than its original size without breaking.
This is one of the reasons its considered so promising for wearables, which need to move with the body.
The teams initial goal is to use the graphene supercapacitors for medical sensors: wearable heart monitors, temperature sensors and EEG sensors to monitor sleep and other brain activities.
This could happen in as little as two or three years, Karim estimates.
Other usesclothes the charge your cell phone, wearable computers, even the temperature-stabilizing jacket I describedwould be significantly further down the road.
Wearable technologyeverything from smartwatches to fitness trackers to wearable cameras to clothing-embedded medical sensorsis big business.
A recent analysis by CCS Insight suggests the industry will be worth some $34 billion by 2020.
But charging has been a constant problem for wearables developers.
Nobody wants to take their wristband off to charge in the middle of the day.
So the search for better batteries and alternative charging solutions has been going on for years.
Many companies have banked on wireless charging as the wave of the future for wearablesyou could simply walk into your kitchen, and have your device charged by a wireless charger on the wall while you cook dinner, without even taking it off.
But the technology is still very much under development, and consumers have been slow to warm to the relatively slow and expensive wireless chargers on the market so far.
Karim cautions that graphene is no silver bullet either.
Theres lots of hype around graphene, and we need to be careful, he says.
One major challenge is making large quantities of high quality graphene.
Its cheap and easy to make lower quality graphene, which is fine for some applications.
But the best quality of graphene is still expensive and laborious to produce, a problem researchers are working on.
Maintaining the high quality of graphene in a scalable quantity is a huge challenge, Karim says.
Another drawback to graphene is that it doesnt conduct electricity as well as metals.
So while graphene-based supercapacitors are strong and flexible, as well as relatively environmentally friendly, silver or copper supercapacitors are more conductive.
Depending on the use, one or the other might be preferable.
So watch this space.
In a decade or two, we might be describing the new, graphene supercapacitor-powered winter jacket, perfect for your next trip to the Himalayas.
On page and on screen, few settings carry the cultural weight of the humble American diner.
Inviting us in with slick chrome and blinking neon, the diner is coolly seductive.
It appeals to our baser impulses with outsized portions of high-cholesterol breakfast and pie, wins us over with chatty waitresses and classic jukebox jams, and reminds us, in a fundamental yet inscrutable way, that America itself isnt always what it seems.
A diner is where Pumpkin and Honey Bunny make their move in Pulp Fiction; where Tony sits down for his final meal on The Sopranos; where the adrift young men of American Graffiti gather to discuss their futures; where Danny and Sandys date gets crashed in Grease.
Diners suffuse the writings of hard-boiled authors like Jack Kerouac and James Ellroy.
In Twin Peaks, the otherworldly Washington State locale dreamed up by David Lynch, the Double R is a community mainstay.
Actress Lara Flynn Boyle, who portrayed Twin Peaks Donna Hayward in the 1990s, says she once waited tables herself at the venerable Ann Sather restaurant in her native Chicago (the cinnamon rolls are legendary).
More than anything, Boyle adores the casual camaraderie of a countertop meal.
Theres nothing like it!
Its a dying art form, she says, a hint of wistfulness in her voice.
Its just so lovely.
People actually talk to each other.
Half the fun, in Boyles view, is striking up off-the-wall dialogues with strangersan increasingly rare activity in the smartphone era.
You meet the most delicious people, she says, and its just fantastic.
Diners are my life.
What is it about cheap eats, long hours, counters, and booths that so consistently captures the American imagination?
Putting a finger on it is no mean feat, but unpacking the history crammed tight within diners walls seems like a fine place to start.
The name diner first referred to railway cars in which riders chowed down (compare sleepers).
Later, it was applied to rough-and-tumble eateries that catered to factory hands in late-1800s industrial America.
In many cases, these establishments were, in fact, retrofitted boxcars, placed outside blue-collar workplaces to provide sustenance to the late-night crowds, with little emphasis on nutrition or decorum.
Food critic and diner buff Michael Stern, co-author (with his wife Jane) of the Roadfood book series, recounts the transformation diners underwent in the Roaring Twenties, when young, fashionable women were out on the town in force, looking for a good time and unafraid to drain their pocketbooks.
That was when many diners were spiffing up, Stern says, and trying to welcome ladies.
They had indoor bathrooms, and booths, so you didnt have to sit at a counter.
This meant that the womenfolk wouldnt have to rub elbows with stinky and suspicious males, and that diners would henceforth be viable date night locations (Danny and Sandys misadventure notwithstanding).
Many such diners were mass-produced in factories in East Coast hubs, each one a cookie-cutter copy of every other.
They all had the same silvery exterior, the same counter, the same open kitchen, the same cramped quarters.
From their plants, the diners were driven across the nation, their oblong, RV-like structure lending them to transport via flatbed trucks.
In the case of larger diners, the buildings were often conveyed to their destinations in two separate pieces, and reassembled on site.
Despite the rebranding campaign, Stern notes that early films depicting diners remained fixated on the idea of the diner as a dangerous, unpredictable place, where louche characters mingled and violence was liable to erupt.
In the Preston Sturges odyssey movie Sullivans Travels, released in 1941, a Hollywood director goes out of his way to mingle with the lowly citizens assembled in a town diner.
In Sterns view, such an excursion wasand in some cases, still isthought to constitute a walk on the wild side of culture.
Sturgess protagonist was slumming itperhaps risking personal injury in the process.
Richard Gutman, avid diner historian and former director of the Culinary Arts Museum at Johnson & Wales University, agrees with this assessment.
Certain people didnt go into diners, he says, because they were these places that somehow attracted a lesser clientele.
After the Second World War, diners kicked their respectability efforts into overdrive.
Gutman recalls a Saturday Evening Post piece, published on June 19, 1948, with the punning headline, The Diner Puts on Airs.
It basically talked about all the fabulous new air-conditioned gigantic diners, where you could get lobster, everything, Gutman says.
Finally, the diner was a truly across-the-board destination.
Everybody wants to go.
Even so, the appeal of classic no-frills diners never quite wore offand neither did the darker side of their reputation.
Modern-day gangster films remain likely to feature diner scenes, and Jack Kerouacs meticulous descriptions of the stench of dishwater and counters pocked with knife marks are, in Michael Sterns mind, immortal.
With this said, the anomie and unpredictability we sometimes associate with diners derives, at heart, from their democratic nature; the only reason we suppose anything can happen in a diner is that everyone is welcome there.
What makes diners strange and unnerving from one point of view is exactly what renders them warm and homey from another: the eclectic blend of the people who eat there, and their willingness to approach you on a whim.
This openness to idle chatter frequently extends to waitstaff.
I really think a diner is a place where, if you want to buy into it, you can become a favorite customer practically the first time youre there, Gutman says, by engaging the people behind the counter, by having a conversation with them, by speaking up, by making a joke.
And they will, generally speaking, respond in kind.
Gutman fondly recalls a recent occasion on which he and his daughter visited a diner that had served as a childhood haunt of hers.
When we pulled up, he says, they literally put her grilled cheese sandwich on the grill, no questions asked.
Gutmans daughter is 33 years old now, and she had her young son in tow.
But for old times sake, the cooks whipped up exactly what she had when she was five!
Boyle, the Twin Peaks actress, points out that, in their acceptance of lone visitors, diners are not dissimilar to town parishes.
In most restaurants, she says, going stag means that people are looking at you, and youre like, Oh my god, they either feel sorry for me or Im a weirdo.
Not so with diners.
In a diner, she says, Im all good.
I dont have to pretend like Im reading a paper.
I dont have to pretend like Im on my phone.
I can just sit there.
And if I look like a loser?
Fine, whatever.
I dont care.
Where Michael Stern sees in Edward Hoppers classic diner tableau Nighthawks an isolating and fearful place, Boyle sees just the oppositean opportunity to enjoy a meal free from judgment, and the delightful possibility of unexpected conversation.
Cold and solitary from one vantage, warm and convivial from anotherit is this duality, bolstered by the American democratic ideal, that explains diners evergreen intrigue.
In Boyles view, it was the home-away-from-home side of diners that David Lynch so successfully brought to bear when he created the larger-than-life Double R. On Twin Peaks, the bereaved of the town mass at the diner in the wake of Laura Palmers death, seeking answers, swapping words, and ordering ample comfort food.
What David tapped into is, as much as youre different, you go into the coffee shop, you sit at the counter, youre all the same person.
And then, once you walk out the door, who knows whats going to happen?
For Lynch, the Double R serves as a place of refuge from the towns churning darkness, a benevolent sanctuary where differences are smoothed over.
It was just a wonderful place to try to find some solace and some warmth, Boyle says.
And thats really what diners are all about.
Sixty-eight percent of coffee drinkers in the U.S. use some kind of addition, either a creamer or a sweetener, or both.
And if that addition is coming in the form of a single-serve plastic container, it's likely ending up in a landfill.
These podsyouve seen them at hotels, airplanes, restaurants, conventionsare convenient in that they are often shelf-stable, and can be used in small doses.
This is not inherently bad; the idea of using a tiny container of creamer so as to avoid opening and possibly eventually throwing out a quart of milk is sound.
But theyre also not usually recyclable, and are thus disastrous for the environment; billions are used annually, then thrown into the garbage.
In the past few years, several enterprising researchers and marketers have been attempting to solve that problem with something fun: dissolvable milk pods.
Martha Wellner, a PhD student at Martin Luther University in Germany, has come up with what might be the most fully-realized solution weve seen.
(Previous similar solutions have been more concepts than products.)
Essentially, Wellners product is a single serving of milk, encapsulated in a sugar crust.
That sugar crust can varysucrose makes it very sweet, erythritol slightly less sobut either way its designed to be a single-piece solution to drop into a cup of black coffee.
The coffee dissolves the sugar, releasing both the sugar and the milk within into the cup.
Currently theres no solution if you like your coffee with milk but without sugar, though the team says theyre working on that.
In any case, they say the pods will keep at room temperature for up to three weeksall without plastic.
More stories from Modern Farmer:
The Canadian passenger train has a unique streamlined design that goes back to the 1930s.
Its a rare aesthetic, perfectly captured by this fan who makes replicas of them to sell, all over the world.
What Makes This Canadian Train So Special?
(2:09)

Now Playing

Dancing  and dancing shows  became a teenage craze in the 1950s, spurred by figures like Cleveland DJ, Alan Freed.
His hit dance show featured R&B and African American music  which he later dubbed Rock and Roll.
This Cleveland DJ Popularized Rock 'n' Roll (2:01)

In the 1840s, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert set up elaborate white winter interiors and decorated trees to celebrate Christmas at Windsor Castle.
But the photographs they released to the public told a more modest story.
Why Queen Victoria Was an Early Adopter of Photography (2:22)

Composite Films conducted 5,800 hours of research and poured over 27 miles of film to create our series America in Color.
Where did they even begin?
Their art director fills us in on the maddeningly detailed process.
How Colorized Historical Footage Is Painstakingly Made (3:02)

Clark Gable, Carole Lombard, Prohibition, the Roaring '20s.
According to the historians and art directors from Composite Films who worked meticulously on America in Color, these were some of their favorite subjects to research and bring to life.
What Kind of Footage Do Historical Colorists Like Best?
(1:48)

To Jackie Kennedy, appearance was everything.
That's why, upon arriving at the White House, she immediately set about redecorating to project a new sense of American style.
Jackie Kennedy Was the Undisputed Style Icon of her Era (2:18)

Tanning was big business in the 1930s, as people sought to recreate the sun-kissed California beach look.
Inventive tanning products started to appear, including spray tans and even a tanning juice.
How Sunbathing Became a National Craze in the 1930s (0:53)

Sam Riehl, the youngest professionally operating blacksmith in Louisiana, breathes new life into an old profession, infusing form and function through metal arts.
2014 Smithsonian In Motion Video Contest Editor's Pick - A Riehl Blacksmith (3:42)

Many influential designers come to see Doris Raymond.
Most of the time, it's not just clothes they're looking for, but inspiration.
At a robust 87 years of age, Dolores Huerta speaks with the rapidity, clarity and conviction of her younger self.
During the Civil Rights Era, Huerta co-founded what is now the United Farm Workers union, resolutely dedicating her life to securing the rights of immigrant farmworkers and to combatting the fierce racism underlying their mistreatment.
In todays political climate, she sees the fundamental freedoms of her fellow Americans freshly imperiled, and has come forward to share her story with a new generation of activists seeking to effect change.
In part, this narrative will be disseminated via a new feature-length documentary, Dolores, directed by multiple film festival award-winner Peter Bratt and slated for release this September.
A preview screening will be held the evening of Tuesday, August 29, at the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian in Washington, D.C.
The film opens with a humble view of Huerta applying makeup in a hotel before a speaking engagement, but quickly plunges its viewers into the maelstrom of postwar America, revealing the passion and dynamism lurking beneath Huertas now-calm exterior.
Following her parents divorce in 1933, Huerta moved with her mother to Stockton, California, where she soon developed an affinity for the hard-working immigrants who labored under a brutal sun for little pay and less respect.
Her father, a former coal miner, had risen to become a union leader and member of the New Mexico state legislature.
Young Dolores was keen to make a difference too.
Huerta earned her associates degree from a local college, and tried her hand at teaching.
She found that economic inequality had set her students so far back that her time would be better spent agitating for change on their parents behalf.
She joined the Stockton Community Service Organization (CSO), a local group committed to improving quality of life for Mexican-Americans through community action and political engagement.
Employing her natural gift for persuasive oratory, Huerta proved herself a highly capable lobbyist.
Refusing to take no for an answer, she fought for community betterment programs and protective legislation.
When Huerta and Csar Chavezalso a member of the CSOcofounded the National Farm Workers Association (now the United Farm Workers) in 1962, they rocketed to national prominence.
Operating out of Delano, where they had embedded themselves among a community of Mexican-American farmhands, Huerta and Chavez orchestrated large-scale labor actions, including a massive strike, and enlisted the American public in their efforts to safeguard some of the countrys toughest workers.
Bratts film highlights Huertas role in the campaign to outlaw DDTa popular pesticide which posed serious health risks to agricultural laborersas well as the national boycott of California table grapes, Gallo-brand wine and lettuce.
The boycott brought Huerta to New York City, where she connected with Gloria Steinem and other members of the burgeoning womens movement.
The feminist perspective would come to inform her activist ethos going forward.
Huerta had first-hand experience with patriarchic unfairness; many of the farmworkers for whom she was fighting stubbornly clung to the idea that their real leader was Csar Chavez, and that Huerta was strictly a subordinateone who should do less of the talking.
Little did they know the extent to which her talking was helping the movement.
Huertas lobbying led to the passage of key California legislation, including Aid for Dependent Families in 1963 and the Agricultural Labor Relations Act in 1975.
Over the course of her career, Huerta ensured for farmworkers in her state the right to organize and bargain with their employers.
Though set back by a vicious police beating during a late-1980s protest, and alienated from the UFW following the death of Csar Chavez, Dolores Huerta never gave up.
To this day, she is an outspoken critic of economic and racial injustice wherever she sees it, and her eponymous foundation wages legal battles on behalf of Californians of color disadvantaged by institutionalized prejudice.
In many ways, however, the story of the film, Dolores, is the story of the power of all American people, not merely that of a lone crusader.
Through sustained use of lively archival footage, director Bratt immerses his viewer in the overwhelming humanity of the civil rights struggle.
The screen is often filled with the animated bodies of protestors, and when it isnt, interviews with a wide array of supporting characters flesh out and globalize Huertas experience.
The farmworkers couldnt win by themselves, Huerta said recently in a telephone interview.
They had to reach out to the American public, and all of the 17 million Americans that decided not to eat grapes or lettuce and Gallo wine.
And thats the way that we won.
Huerta points to a line in the film delivered by Robert Kennedy, a staunch ally of the farmworkers movement before his tragic assassination in June of 1968.
What he said was, We have a responsibility to our fellow citizens.
And I think that is what were having to doto take those words and put life into them, realizing that all of us have a responsibility.
She is not speaking solely on the plight of agricultural laborers.
To Huerta, and to the filmmakers, recent events have made abundantly clear the need for across-the-board support for the rights of people of color in this nation and worldwide.
Eight years ago, says director Peter Bratt, we were supposedly a post-racial society, and now you have thousands of young white men marching in the streets with hoods and KKK signs and swastikas.
And I think its bringing to the fore something we need to pay attention to that weve kind of swept under the rug.
Its like a boil thats burst open, and we have to address it.
In Huertas experience, the most effective way to replace corrupt policies is by getting out the vote.
I applaud [todays activists] for the protests and for the marches and all that that theyre doing, but its got to translate into voting.
The only way we can change the policy that needs to be changed is by sitting on those seats of power where decisions are being made about how our moneys going to be spent, what our policies are going to be.
Then, once the people have a voice, Huerta says, they can use it to reform the educational system.
Incorporating diverse and underrepresented perspectives into elementary, middle and high school curricula willthe theory goeslead to open-minded, understanding adults.
We have never taught in our schools that indigenous people were the first slaves, that African slaves built the White House and Congress, Huerta says, nor addressed the contributions of people from Mexico, and Asia, that built the infrastructure of this country.
If people grew up with that knowledge, they would not have that hatred in their hearts against people of color.
Director Bratt points out that Huertas own inspiring narrative is rarely told.
People come out [of the theater] and say, Oh my God.
I had no idea.
I had never even heard of Dolores Huerta.
So the fact that someone who played such an important role historically in the Civil Rights Movement, and moving legislation that we enjoy today, the fact that educated women who even teach ethnic and womens studies didnt know her storyto me, that was an awakening.
Huerta hopes that young people will see the film and take inspiration from her example.
She understands the impulse to be angry at events unfolding in America today, but is careful to note that anger must always be channeled into nonviolent action to be useful.
Destruction and rage, she says, will get oppressed peoples nowhere.
We can win through nonviolence, she says.
Gandhi did it in Indiahe liberated a whole country using nonviolence.
And people who commit violence, youre actually joining the other side.
Youre joining the alt-right, youre joining the Nazis and all those people who think they have to use violence against other people to get their views across.
The story of Huertas own lifethe story of Doloresis a testament to the impact that sustained, nonviolent activism can have on a society.
The poorest of the poor of the farmworkersthe most denigrated and humiliated peoplecame together and were able to have enough power to overcome the president of the United States, Richard Nixon, the governor of California, Ronald Reagan, the big farm organizations.
and win.
she says.
And I think thats the message that people need to hear today.
Not to despair, but we can actually come together and make this happen.
Create a better nation.
The documentary Dolores will be screened August 29, 2017, at 7 p.m. at the National Museum of the American Indian.
A moderated discussion with Dolores Huerta and director Peter Bratt (Quechua) following the showing of the film.
During Jean-Michel Basquiats brief careerthe New York City artist died in 1988, when he was just 27he drew from hip-hop, jazz, graffiti, Beat literature, pop art, folk art, comics and even Grays Anatomy to forge an emotionally charged style that still dazzles.
This past May, a Japanese businessman paid $110.5 million for a Basquiat painting, one of the highest prices ever fetched for an American artists work.
He was very prescient in being able to sample from lots of different channels, says Eleanor Nairne, curator of the first major Basquiat show in Britain, opening this month at the Barbican Art Gallery in London.
In Glenn (1984), Basquiat layered a screaming face over color photocopies of his previous imagerya profusion of information spilling out of this head, Nairne says.
Its a mental state that, three decades on, many of us find familiar.
Jean-Michel Basquiat The first African-American artist to attain art superstardom, Jean-Michel Basquiat (1960-1988) created a huge oeuvre of drawings and paintings (Julian Schnabel recalls him once accidentally leaving a portfolio of about 2,000 drawings on a subway car) in the space of just eight years.
Tanzila Ahmed, with a streak of purple in her hair and tigers faces glaring fiercely from the fabric of her dress, takes the stage at the Smithsonian's 2017 Asian American Literature Festival.
She opens a copy of her recent poetry chapbook and begins to read.
Her voice, quiet and intimate, holds the audience in its grip:

I have lost my origin story She is buried six feet under Americas soil Wrapped in white No nation state can define her now.
The lines from Moms Belonging, one of the poems in Ahmeds collection emdash & ellipses, tells the story of her mother, who came from Bangladesh to the United States.
Organized by the Smithsonians Asian Pacific American Center (APAC), the three-day July literature festival was the first of its kind.
The Festival saw more than 80 Asian-American artists and writers arrive for events at the Phillips Gallery, the Library of Congress and the Dupont Underground.
The authors came from a variety of cultural backgrounds, and in their diversity, demonstrated both the challenges and the opportunities of the growing Asian-American literary space and the museums that amplify its voices.
Ahmed was joined by three other Asian-American poets and novelists, who read their work at a session entitled, Migration, Incarceration and Unity.
Japanese American Traci Kato-Kiriyama partnered with Ahmed to read a series of poems in dialog with one another.
In one, Ahmed imagines what would come of an encounter between their forebears"if our grandfathers could meet.
The Pakistani government jailed Ahmeds Bangladeshi grandfather in the 1970s.
She says he was incarcerated some six months at an internment camp outside of Lahore, Pakistan.
Though Ahmed wasnt born at the time, the memory of her grandfathers internment, she says, resides deep within her bones.
Kato-Kiriyamas grandfather, too, was interned at Manzenar, one of 10 American concentration camps in the United States where 110,000 Japanese-Americans were held during World War II.
In her poems, she responded to Ahmed, expanding on the idea of their grandfathers shared experiences and how they impact their granddaughters:

I find myself in wonder with each word I read of the poems on your family - What would it have been to introduce our grandparents?
Would they have endured the summer heat to dance in honor of our ancestors and pick apart the proximity of meaning to tradition?
Would they agree to disagree or would they nod and say less in order to hold the future between us?
Their poetic conversation began a year and a half ago, and grew out of joint organizing between Los Angeles Japanese-American and Muslim-American communities.
Ahmed joined a tour of the Manzenar Historic Landmark, organized by VigilantLove, a collective in Los Angeles that brings together Japanese and Muslim-Americans.
For the pilgrimage day, thousands and thousands of people descend on Manzenar and after that day I wrote that poem, Ahmed says.
Theres a lot of talk now about ancestral trauma, Kato-Kiriyama says.
But the poems are also a way to address the present and the future.
Anti-Muslim sentiment within the United States has flared into political rhetoric over the past several years.
Kato-Kiriyama says she sees Ahmeds poems evolving out of her thinking about her realities and the possibilities that the government is presenting to her and the entire Muslim community.
For APAC director Lisa Sasaki, these opportunities for connection are one of the key reasons for organizing the Literature Festival.
Its writers and poets who are first able to put into words what weve internalized and arent able to express ourselves, Sasaki says.
Thats why for me literature is so important regardless of the time period that were in, and why having writers and poets is so important to our American society as a whole.
Other sessions at the Festival tackled topics like gender, queerness and race.
As the founder of the Asian American Literary Review in Washington, D.C., Lawrence-Minh Bui Davis, APAC's curator of Asian Pacific American Studies, felt that the time was right for the festival.
Theres been an explosion of Asian-American writers over the past five to 10 years, he says.
When asked why, he points to changing attitudes about the place of the arts in Asian-American families.
An increased interest in multiculturalism has also led to greater familiarity with and demand for Asian-American writing, he adds, including among Americans who arent of Asian descent.
Organizations like Kaya Press, the Asian American Writers' Workshop and Lantern Review, among others, have given financial and emotional support to a new generation of writers.
The Poetry Foundation, which publishes Poetry Magazine, agreed to launch a special issue in partnership with AALF.
The poems in the issue demonstrate the diversity of Asian America.
Rajiv Mohabirs Coolie references a voyage from Guyana (Mohabir mixes Guyanese Creole, Bhojpuri and English in his poetry) while Wang Pings Lao Jia  (translation: old home) weaves together English and Chinese.
Many of the successful poems in the issue grapple with the unfinished movement between old homes and new.
Many of the successful poems, like Oliver de la Pazs Autism Screening QuestionnaireSpeech and Language Delay and Ocean Vuongs Essay on Craft, dont deal explicitly with immigration at all.
Authors like Mei-Mei Berssenbrugge and the Pulitzer-prize winner Vijay Seshadri have been mainstays in the poetry community for decades.
Their poems appear alongside writings by authors who have much shorter publication histories.
Like the magazine, the festival capitalized on diversity.
In a literary address about the future of Asian-American poetics, Franny Choi brought her audience to tears of laughter when she described the angry poetry that she's heard straight Asian-American men recite at poetry slams.
That generation of poets, Choi contended, used poetry to strike back against a mainstream American media that they felt represented Asian men as asexual or lacking in virility.
But a new generation of Asian-American poets celebrates queerness and fluid identity.
The audience also heard from Kazim Ali, who has tackled the topic of queerness (of both genre and identity) for years.
Saturdays events ended with a poetry slam and literaokeliterary karaokein the Dupont Underground, a stretch of old Metro track thats now a venue for performance, film and theater.
Amid graffiti and music, poet and congressional worker Louie Tan Vital read about her experiences working as a congressional staffer:

my family crushed the Pacific ocean So I could cradle this democracy this allows you to break me What a privilege to fall apart on these marble steps What a privilege to break in this hallway And have my community pick me back up Because my family did not immigrate For me to be silent

The audience snapped and cheered for their favorite writers, while sipping on beers and falooda (a sweet South Asian mix of rose syrup, vermicelli, jelly and milk.)
Theres a perennial debate about what counts as Asian-American literature and who counts as Asian-American that came up across a number of talks, says Davis.
The term encompasses so many different languages, cultures and places in history, he points out.
As an organizer, his solution was to bring in as many types of literature as possible.
We included a panel on childrens literature, we had graphic novels, we commissioned an adaptation, we commissioned literary memes, we had maker-spaces and all this extra-literary or sorta-literary work, wanting to expand that category and think broadly about what that category can encompass.
Certainly, Asian-American literary work has moved across genres.
Writer and translator Ken Liu, whose fantasy novels, informed by Asian history and art, wrote a literary address for the festival.
The organizers also commissioned Brooklyn-based graphic novelist Matt Huynh to create an animated adaptation of the prologue to The Committed, a forthcoming novel by Viet Nguyen, author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning The Sympathizer.
Credit: Matt Huynh, artist, Kevin Shea Adams, composer, Irene Feleo, animator, Justice Shroomcloud, music, Mark Wang, MJ Steele and Sasha Kimiatek, assistants

We had people [who] came in [to the festival] with questions like what Asian countries will I see represented and got a little confused when the answer was American, thats the country you will see represented, says Sasaki.
The organizers now want to expand the festival and maybe take it on tour, they say.
Davis envisions a yearlong mentoring program, as well as an event in Chicago.
Ive put on a lot of public programs, but this is one that stands out in my mind simply for the number of people who came up to me to say that this was a program that was really needed, Sasaki says.
We should be trying to meet those types of needs and we did it in this particular case.
Grammy Award-winning musician Esperanza Spalding puts her spin on the history of design at Smithsonians Cooper Hewitt museum in a show about transformation, the motif of her latest album, 'Emilys D+Evolution.'
Smithsonian magazine spoke with her about her new gig, her pop culture loves, and her thoughts on social media

Tell me about your guest-curated exhibition.
How did you go about selecting and organizing objects?
I wanted to present objects through the lens of D+evolution.
So in conversation with the curators on the team that they selected for me, we found themes that we knew we would be able to find in the histories of objects that express d+Evolution, this process of one structure, aesthetic, value system, methodology devolving, coming undone as it makes way for the next iteration, as it evolves.
Theyre from all over the place.
Sometimes were focusing on more of a cultural d+evolution as reflected through the artists choices and the design.
Sometimes were talking about manufacturing d+evolution.
For example, we deconstructed pianos.
We completely tore them apart and reconstructed them into some functional objects in the exhibitions like staircases.
How did your musicians background inform your curating of the exhibition?
Are the two art forms similar?
I dont know if it helps or hurts because I never curated an exhibition before I was a musician.
I have no idea.
Tell me about the music in the exhibition.
In the exhibition there is a section that features the designs on the covers of sheet music that was popular in the first half of the 20th century.
I took one of the songs from the exhibition, its called Love Songs of the Nile, and I worked with [musician and composer] Leonardo Genovese to record a direct rendering of the sheet music, perhaps what it would have sounded like to the first person who bought it and played it.
And then we deconstructed that version of the sheet music into improvisational performance.
And then I did another deconstruction of that by performing a vocal interpretation of what we improvised.
And then Leonardo took the sound files of all three of those versions and he cut them up and he reassembled them and evolved the original composition from the sheet music into this whole new synthesized arrangement.
Its original but its all d+evolutions of a piece of music from my exhibition.
Do you have a single favorite object in the exhibition?
No, I dont think I have a favorite.
But right now when I come into the room and step back and absorb whats in there, the object that is most intriguing to me is a textile designed by Jack Lenor Larsen and Eliza Wilcox.
The pattern was made by 50 Kenyan women tying the cloth in sync to the rhythm of the drum.
When you look at it, its perfectly spaced vertical lines and theyre so perfect and evenly spaced because the women were all tying in sync to the same groove.
I think thats such an amazing and innovative manufacturing technique.
I wish I could see that method in action.
What music are you listening to right now?
Ive been listening a lot to this Chick Corea album called The Vigil.
So, I ran into a great musician, whos my neighbor now, Craig Taborn, and he told me that David Holland was in a band with Chick Corea.
Right after they left Miles Davis band, they formed a band called ARC.
So I ordered it on vinyl because Im listening to more vinyl these days.
Thats been on rotation a lot in my house.
The covers so beautiful.
Its this road that just goes into infinity on the horizon

Do you prefer to listen to music on vinyl?
No, I just like that it keeps me focused on what Im listening to.
You have to get up and turn it over.
It feels like I stay more engaged in the action of listening.
Its easy to put music on in the background and take it for granted.
So when cooking or sometimes I just sit and listen to a record.
Its easier to take time for dedicated listening when its on vinyl.
Theres no illuminated screen to interface with, its just very direct interface with the sound and I love it.
What are you reading right now?
Ive been revisiting a book that Ive actually read many times but its a great companion for anyone involved in the creative pursuit.
Its called Indirections: For Those who Want to Write and the authors name is Sidney Cox.
Its such a phenomenal handbook for us creatives.
And then I just read this book about drugs during the Third Reich called Blitzed.
Its kind of depressing.
And my little brother, whos this brilliant engineer, sent me a book thats called Drawdown, which is inspiring.
Thats the light in the life right now!
That is about projects that are being implemented around the world to draw carbon out of the atmosphere.
And not only reducing our carbon footprint but actually resequestering is what its called I think, carbon that has been emitted to the atmosphere Im really passionate about developing a sustainable lifestyle.
Particularly for someone like me, who travels all the time, its hard to figure out how to keep your carbon footprint down.
So one of my missions in this life is to develop truly sustainable lifestyle.
What have you implemented in your life or changed about you life to make it more sustainable?
Just little things.
I eat less meat.
I take the train as much as possible and bike a lot.
I avoid getting paper cups when I go get my coffee.
I compost, go to the farmers market, eat local as much as I can.
Its not enough though.
One of my goals is to develop a sustainable homestead within the city limits.
Thats my next big mission.
Do you ever listen to podcasts?
No, not really.
Ive only listened to one once in my life.
Im more of a radio listener when Im in the car in Oregon, electric car I should add.
My brother and sister-in-law both have electric cars so when Im home, I borrow them and listen to KBOO.
Shout-out to our local independent radio station.
And obviously NPR.
Its so clich.
Clich liberal.
What are some of your favorite films?
My favorite favorite favorite film of the last year was the Great Beauty.
I really liked that.
Its like floating in body temperature salt water.
I love it.
I love it.
I love it.
Ive watched it three times and I would have watched it more, but I dont need to because I can see it.
I can feel it.
I experience that film really viscerally.
I dont really know what the director put in there, but its something that just activated my nervous system and the part of my brain that allow images to recreate themselves in my minds eye.
Im watching that movie all the time.
I can see it right now.
I love that movie.
I love the music in that movie.
I love the characters.
I think its so perfect.
I really loved Anna Karenina, the Joe Wright film.
It feels improvisational the way that he edits it and the way that we move around the characters.
I just think its so brilliant and of course I love the feeling of it being a theater piece.
Emily's D+Evolution Esperanza Spalding presents her latest project Emily's D+Evolution a rekindling of her childhood interest in theater, poetry and movement, which delves into a broader concept of performance.
Buy

Im sure youre pretty busy, but do you ever get around to watching TV?
No I dont.
I dont have a TV.
Why is that?
I dont know.
Ive never owned a TV myself.
There was one at my parents house.
Thats probably for the best.
Yeah I never come and think I want to watch TV.
I dont know.
It doesnt do much for me.
So when you do come home from a long day, what would you do to entertain or wind down?
I would make some sort of apple cider vinegar/red wine cocktail.
It sounds gross but I love it.
I like sour things.
Its a lot of acidity.
I would make that and then I would probably read.
Or my friends are always sending me interesting YouTube videos of documentaries or performances.
Id probably watch those.
I read a lot and I really enjoy listening to poetry so I might put on some Sylvia Plath or W.H.
Auden or MF DOOM, one of my favorite poets.
I dont have a lot of downtime.
And when I do, Im usually with friends because they travel as much as I do.
You have to really make a big effort when youre home to see the people you love.
Usually Im having dinner with somebody or lunch with somebody when I get quote unquote home.
Where do you consider home at this point?
I consider Oregon home.
It is my home technically, literally.
But New York is my second home.
Its my second landing pad.
I end up being here a lot for work.
A lot of musicians, artists, family friends are based out here.
This feels like a second home for sure.
You were at the Peace Ball this year in Washington.
What was a highlight of that for you?
Speaking with Angela Davis and Yuka Honda and Azar Nafisi, who wrote Reading Lolita in Tehran.
It was really magical sitting up there talking with them.
In a way I feel like the whole thing was just an excuse to get to work with Annie-B who is someone who I admire.
Shes a director and she co-founded the theater company, Big Dance Theater.
She came in and choreographed the performance of the song we did.
I know you have social media accounts.
I saw your Instagram story yesterday.
Do you use social media a lot?
If so, do you follow anyone inspiring?
Its kind of embarrassing because I know its not that hard.
Im not a person who takes photos when I travel.
I think that may be the indicator if youre going to be good at social media or not.
I dont feel particularly compelled to just show random pictures of what Im doing.
I feel like I want to disseminate beauty.
I respond to the pressure that you have to have a social media presence, but I dont feel very proud or inspired by it.
I try to spend my time away from my phone to do my job, which is making things for people to experience live.
Partially, Im a little torn about the thought of encouraging people to look at their phones for the sake of something I put up there.
Id rather encourage everyone I know and love and dont know to go outside and take a walk or have a conversation or read a book or listen to music.
I dont know if these phones are enhancing our compassion, or creativity or expression.
Or maybe they are!
I dont know.
I like that.
I think I look at a lot of things that arent worth looking at on social media.
Dont we all?
So what is next?
Youre done with this exhibition; its on view now.
Are you working on any new music?
Im actually leaving Monday to go write for a couple of weeks to complete the first draft of a libretto that Ive been working on thats due at the end of August, set to premiere in 2019 with Opera Philadelphia.
Wayne Shorters writing the music and we dont know who the director is yet but it will be wonderful.
Thats the big thing on the horizon.
And then in the fall, beginning at 9 a.m. (PT) on September 12, Im hoping to create an album in a way thats an improvisational process.
So its going to be streamed live on Facebook and its 77 hours.
The cameras on the whole time and we all walk into the space with no preconceived notions.
We just come in and start creating and allow that immediacy and urgency that is possible when you start something.
Id like to have an experience and share the experience of doing one thing without any agenda.
Purely an exposition of creativity and imagination.
And we have to finish it in three days.
And there will be a limited edition of the cd.
You get it or you dont and thats it.
Its like a project of improvisation applied to making and disseminating a record.
It could be a total disaster, full disclosure.
But even the most well-prepped, revised album can be a disaster too.
So, I just figure everywhere else in our lives, theres a lot of structure and planning and intention and motive and desired results and thatll be most of my life, most of our lives.
On a bright blue sea beneath a bright blue sky he jumps.
On his water skis and in his leather jacket he rises.
He flies.
Forty years later hes flying still.
That was Fonzies leap into legend and language when he jumped the shark on Happy Days in September 1977.
A 70s sitcom about life in the 50s, the shows title was at once literal and ironic, an incantation of better times.
To its fans the program was a simple pleasure in a complicated age.
It premiered the year Richard Nixon was swamped by Watergate and resigned.
The show took a few chances with social issues, matters of race or class or character, but just as often it was a wisenheimers sendup of anodyne 1950s sitcoms like The Donna Reed Show or Leave It to Beaver.
Charming and largely harmless, Happy Days somehow thrived in the great moment of subversive television satire, when All in the Family and M*A*S*H were both runaway hits and prime-time indictments of American cupidity.
My Happy Days in Hollywood: A Memoir In My Happy Days in Hollywood, Marshall takes us on a journey from his stickball-playing days in the Bronx to his time at the helm of some of the most popular television series and movies of all time.
Buy

Happy Days was also incredibly popular in an era of mass entertainment, breaking into televisions Top 10 ratings before streaming or bingeing or even the splintering effects of cable.
American audiences routinely measured in the scores of millions, compared with todays niche programming.
(For the avidly anticipated Series 7 premiere of Game of Thrones, 10.1 million viewers tuned in, setting a record for HBO. )
It is a measure of how wide and deep the show reached that Fonzies jacket entered the collections of the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in 1980, while the series was still on the air.
At the museum, the jacket is cataloged in serviceable prose: From the Western Costume Company, measures overall: 25 x 19 in.
; 63.5 x 48.26 cm, brown leather with brown knit cuffs and bottom; zipper closure; slash pockets on front; brown satin lining.
But NMAH curator Eric Jentsch invokes its poetry.
Fonzie was a representation of cool at a time when you were learning about what cool was.
Correctamundo.
That popped leather collar!
That pompadour!
Ayyyy!
Arthur Fonzarelli was a hoodlum with a heart of gold on a 1949 Triumph Trophy TR5 Scrambler Custom.
And bomber or biker or cowboy, from the Beatles to the Ramones, from Brando to Mad Max to Indiana Jones, the leather jacket has never run low on cool.
So the jacket is the jacket, ineffable, a pinned moment on the American timeline, but the complexity and wit and energy expressed by the phrase jump the shark was then and is now a living, breathing thing, a big idea in three small syllables.
It means to have passed the peak moment of your greatness, and through some absurd act, some bad choice, begun your inevitable decline.
That the phrase persists is a tribute to the vigor and dynamism of colloquial American English and clear, uncluttered language; to the perfections of brevity; to the power of metaphor; to the beauty of slang, which lies not only in its artistry but in its utility.
Said to have been coined, at least in one account, at a late-night college bull session at the University of Michigan in 1985 by undergraduate Sean Connolly, jump the shark was later popularized by his roommate, comedy writer and radio host Jon Hein.
But its well-worn origin story is less important than its persistence or its aptness or its uncanny economy.
According to Ben Yagoda, author of When You Catch an Adjective, Kill It: The Parts of Speech, for Better and/or Worse and connoisseur of vernacular American English, the phrase identifies this phenomenon and sort of nails the case by naming it in this very vivid, funny, specific way.
Fred Fox Jr., the writer of the episode, famously maintains that Happy Days did not jump the shark that night.
If this was really the beginning of a downward spiral, why did the show stay on the air for six more seasons and shoot an additional 164 episodes?
Why did we rank among the Top 25 in five of those six seasons?
Thats why, when I first heard the phrase and found out what it meant, I was incredulous.
To this day it follows Henry Winkler everywhere.
Forty years an actor and author and activist, fly fisherman and photographer, producer and directorhe remains The Fonz.
When did I first hear it?
Im not sure.
But it never annoyed me, because we were still a hit.
We continued to be a hit for years to come.
It is part of the legacy of Happy Days.
People say it to me all the time.
I just caught this gigantic trout in Wyoming, I put it on Twitter, and someone said, Look at thatyou just jumped the trout.
If were lucky, its a jump we all make, the long arc across the years, from youth and daring into uncertainty and old age, in brief defiance of logic and gravity.
In the end, it is a leap of faith.
And the shark, after all, is insatiable.
So now and forever, we jump.
Its a cool April Day in Washington, D.C.
The year is 1968.
A group of women are huddled on a street corner, the majority African-American.
Behind them, one can make out a shuttered storefrontthat of Hechts department store, vandalized in the days prior by rioters enflamed by the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. Alongside the womensome agitated, others at easestand five national guardsmen, looking like soldiers plucked from Vietnam with their long rifles, black boots and bulky helmets.
Not pictured in the arresting photo, taken on F Street, is a quietly majestic nearby edifice, left unscathed by looters and on the verge of its grand reopening to the public.
That building, dedicated in 1836 by Andrew Jackson, had long served as a patent office.
Over the years, however, it had fallen into a state of disrepair.
Now, amidst all the grief and fury of 1968, it was to be reopened as a beacon of across-the-board American achievementa signifier of hope in a desperate time.
The National Collection of Fine Art (a precursor to today's Smithsonian American Art Museum) would now occupy one half of the structure, and would begin admitting visitors that May.
A new museum, the National Portrait Gallery, would occupy the other half, and would open in October.
This fraught origin story lies at the heart of the National Portrait Gallerys new exhibition, "Celebrating 50 Years," marking the anniversaries of both Smithsonian museums.
Housed in what was once the vestibule of the old patent office building, the exhibition showcases a wide assortment of photographs, ephemera and other artifacts dating back to the museums 1968 debut.
The significance of the black-and-white image of those women and guardsmen sharing a street corner is not lost on National Portrait Gallery historian James Barber, the exhibition's curator.
This was not a happy time for Washington, Barber says.
But museums were scheduled to open.
If anything, the widespread disillusionment over the death of Martin Luther King and the drawn-out conflict in Vietnam only confirmed the urgent need for the new twin museums, which would highlight aspects of America worth celebrating.
Barber recalls that the President said that the Smithsonian was the one bright spot in the area at this time.
The beleaguered Lyndon Baines Johnson had just delivered a bombshell public speech in which he both disavowed the goal of victory in Vietnam and declared that he would not be seeking a second term.
Yet, Johnson graciously oversaw the May unveiling of the National Collection of Fine Art.
A pair of photographs depict Johnson and his wife Ladybird contemplating the artworks hung from the refurbished walls.
The President was no doubt cheered by what he saw: the NCFA collection, which was created in 1906, now had a beautiful, historic home.
Under the stewardship of director David Scott, who broadened the scope of the collections, the museum came to include contemporary and modern art as well as classical works.
The principal artistic backdrop for the May opening was a series of six colorful and thematically disparate posters commissioned specially for the occasion.
"Celebrating 50 Years" presents visitors with three of the six, one of them by famed New York-born artist Larry Rivers.
Prior to the opening, the series had been displayed in the windows of Garfinckels department store, a Washington, D.C., shopping mainstay, as a lure for passersby.
The Portrait Gallerys debut later in October was also met with lively fanfare.
It featured a symposium, and guests on hand for day one of the museums first show (entitled The AmericanThis New Man) included future Librarian of Congress Daniel J. Boorstin, historian Marcus Cunliffe, and renowned anthropologist Margaret Mead.
The National Portrait Gallery was new.
Founded just six years earlier, its inventory would have to be amassed from the ground up.
Given this blank slate, striking the right tone from the outset was key.
In the inaugural catalogon view in the exhibitionits first director, Charles Nagel, laid out his philosophical vision for the space, arguing that the National Portrait Gallery should not, at its heart, be a portrait museum, but rather an American museum.
To him, the stories of those depicted were more important than the techniques used to depict them.
Art would be the vehicle, but knowledge and understanding of Americas heritage would be the substance.
The portrait gallery is a museum of history and biography that uses art as a medium, curator Barber says.
And it could be many mediums.
For the most part, its the fine artspainting and sculpturebut it could be photography, theater arts, drama.
The museum's emphasis on knowledge and history is ultimately what drew community support to it.
Initially, there was some worry that the fledgling 1968 collectionfeaturing a very high percentage of loaned pieceswould be able to get off the ground and establish itself in its own right.
Such fears soon proved ill-founded: countless people were willing and able to contribute to the mission of the new museum.
Most notably, perhaps, is the case of the National Portrait Gallerys iconic Lansdowne portrait of George Washington, painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796.
Displayed at the 1968 opening ceremony, Washington looked out over the crowd, hand magnanimously outstretchedbut the portrait was not yet owned by the museum.
The owner of the painting, a native of the United Kingdom, had generously lent it to the Smithsonian, where it remained in place for 30 years.
In 2000, the owner decided to sell the Landsdowne.
His asking price: $20 million.
Where exactly this funding would come from was initially unclear.
But when museum director Marc Pachter appeared on the Today Show one morning and pithily stressed the historical import of the painting, the money appeared instantaneously.
Fred W. Smith, the president of the Donald W. Reynolds Foundation, an organization traditionally focused on projects involving buildings and medical research, happened to be tuned in, and decided that this was to be his organizations next major investment.
Single-handedly footing the $20-million bill, the Reynolds Foundation donated $10 million in additional funds to cover the cost of taking the Lansdowne on a crosscountry road trip while the museum was being upgraded.
Evidently, the portrait gallerys mission had resonated.
That distinctionbetween art for arts sake and art for the peoples sakeis so critical to what we do, says Barber.
Walking among the ephemera gathered for the 50th anniversary exhibition, the curators attention is drawn to a modest gallery brochureone of the very first to be printed.
Depicted on its front is a portrait of Pocahontas, one of the oldest works in the collections.
Reflecting on the story contained in this image, and those to be found within all the other varied materials in the collection, he cant help but be moved.
Barber finds mirrored in the Portrait Gallerys works the overwhelming, awe-inspiring diversity of American life.
Not just presidents, he says, but engineers, scientists, people in medicine, poets, artists, innovators.
all are celebrated here.
Now, just as during the tumult of the late 1960s, the old patent office building stands as a place of refuge and warmth, where Americans of all stripes can find themselves in their nations history.
Thats what this catalog is about, Barber tells me: the wide variety of people that helped build this country, make this country what it is.
"Celebrating 50 Years" is on view through January 6, 2019 at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C.
Once associated with dopey midcentury kitsch, the elaborately decorated tiki bar is suddenly springing up everywhere, serving quaffable concoctions in pineapples and elaborately carved mugs.
In its heyday, the movement was even bigger.
Its aesthetic spread beyond bars and restaurants to encompass otherwise distinct areas of American life: Car dealerships were built to resemble thatch-roofed huts and bowling alleys adopted imitation South Seas dcor.
That decades-long vogue eventually came to be known as Polynesian Pop.
On August 24, Martin and Rebecca Cate, of the acclaimed San Francisco bar Smugglers Cove, will speak at a Smithsonian Associates' event to discuss tikis legacy and share some of their own creations.
In advance of that event, I spoke with Martin Cate about the rise, fall and resurgence of tiki.
He led me through its historical underpinnings, explained what makes a good exotic cocktail, and speculated about why these fun (and sometimes flammable) drinks are popular again.
American tiki culture has origins dating back to the 19th century

The American fascination with what would come to be known as tiki culture begins more than 100 years ago.
Its origins go back to the 19th century, when Americans became quite interested in the South Pacific, tales of South Sea adventure, Robert Louis Stevenson and such, Cate said.
Even into the early 20th century, we fell in love with Hawaiian music, creating this genre called haole music.
Many other factors would continue to feed that interest over the years, including the Norweigan ethnographer Thor Heyerdahls harrowing 1947 journey from Peru to French Polynesia on a balsa wood raft that he had named the Kon-Tiki.
To find the true starting point of tiki as we know it now, however, you have to go back 14 years earlier.
In 1933, an itinerant and curious bootlegger named Ernest Raymond Beaumont Gantt opened a Hollywood restaurant that would come to be known as Don the Beachcomber.
While Gantt decorated the space with relics from his nautical travels, it was the drinksnotably, complex multilayered rum concoctionsthat really stood out.
As Martin and Rebecca Cate write in Smugglers Cove, Mixing and layering multiple spices and sweeteners provided a vast array of possibilities, and even small tweaks to a recipe could yield a much different result.
Thus, as the Cates write, was the exotic cocktail born.
Smuggler's Cove: Exotic Cocktails, Rum, and the Cult of Tiki Winner: 2017 Spirited Awards (Tales of the Cocktail): Best New Cocktail and Bartending Book "Martin and Rebecca Cate are alchemistsReyn Spoonerwearing, volcano-bowl-igniting, Polynesian-popping, double-straining, Aku-Aku swilling alchemists.
Which is to say, they are the finest kind of alchemists known to walk the earth.
Buy this book.
It will bring you a little bit closer to paradise.
Buy

Tiki bars arose during the Great Depression

While Don the Beachcomber was the first tiki bar, it obviously wasnt the last.
Imitators such as Trader Vicsthe arguable origin point of the Mai Taisoon began to spring up elsewhere in California and around the country.
While the movement eventually assumed a life of its own, it might not have taken off if Don the Beachcombers island-themed aesthetic hadnt been such a perfect fit for the economically troubled era.
It created this escapist environment that fit perfectly with what people were looking for in Depression-era America, Cate told me.
At a time before Internet and color TV and travel, it created an imaginary South Seas island getaway that was the perfect place to forget about your worries and troubles, and unwind with some soft music underneath a thatched roof.
Tiki thrived during the post-World War II economic boom

If the Depression lit tikis fuse, it blew up during the post-World War II boom.
One source of that growing enthusiasm, Cate suggests, may have been the huge number of G.I.s returning from overseas with fond memories of island downtime in the Pacific.
But, according to Cate, it was also important that theirs was a prosperous era.
This was Eisenhowers America.
The Protestant work ethic.
Its nothing but work, work, work, he said.
These tiki bars become the place where everything slows down.
Where time stops.
Theres no windows.
Its always twilight.
You can loosen a tie and you can relax.
They became these shelters that you could go to to decompress.
Most classic exotic cocktails follow a strict formula

When Ganttwho would later rename himself Donn Beach, since everyone assumed that was his namefirst began debuting exotic cocktails, he built them on the much older model of a drink called Planters Punch.
Despite tiki cultures Polynesian trappings, this seminal rum drink has Caribbean origins.
Remember, theres no rum in the South Pacific, no tradition of cocktails, Cate told me.
Traditionally, Planters Punch is built according to a simple rhyme that dictates its proportions:

1 of sour 2 of sweet 3 of strong 4 of weak

In the classic version, the sour is lime, the sweet is sugar, the strong is rum, and the weak is water.
As Cate tells it, Donn Beachs innovation was the realization that there was still room for experimentation within that formula.
What Donn did, and this is what created these unique cocktails, which we call exotic cocktails, was to take these things and make them as baroque and complex as possible, Cate said.
In so doing, he created yet another uniquely American form of cocktail, alongside these great historic things like the cobbler, the julep and the fizz.
In an exotic cocktail, spice was more important than sweetness

While many treat tiki cocktails serve as a sugar delivery mechanism, Cate suggests that theyre missing the point.
Donn Beachs true innovation arguably derived from his willingness to raid the spice cabinet, introducing flavors such as pimento that Americans were only familiar with from their cooking.
The essential parts are going to be a fresh citrus component and some kind of spice component, Cate said.
The spice component can take the form of cinnamon syrup, it can take the form of a dash of angostura bitters.
That was the secret weapon of Donns.
That was what brought the layers in.
Spices in tropical drinks.
Though the tradition of using spice had deep roots in Caribbean cocktails, it lent an unexpected air of mystery in American bars.
Bartenders continue to exploit this sense of surprise to this day, often embracing its potentially theatrical qualities.
Some tiki bars, for example, will grate cinnamon over a flaming cocktail as its being delivered to the table, sending sparks into the air.
Exotic cocktails suffered a precipitous fall from grace

While Donn Beach and some of his immediate imitators made their complex drinks with, as Cate puts it, precision and care, tiki bartenders eventually grew careless.
Part of the trouble was that many of the original recipes were closely guarded secrets (more on that in a moment).
If you want to get into [exotic cocktails], it really does take a bit of effort, Cate told me.
And its important, because this is where it all fell apart in the 1960s and, particularly, the 1970s.
Bartenders had all these drinks written down as code.
Getting recipes became a game of telephone.
But Cate also attributes the decline to the mid-century vogue for cooking with powdered and canned foods designed to make the busy home chefs life easier.
Soon, bartenders were finding shortcuts such as substituting dry sour mix for fresh squeezed limes.
Once subtle cocktails grew increasingly syrupy and indistinguishable, leaving us with the sickly sweet beverages that many associate with the movement today.
Recreating classic tiki recipes was hard work

As the art of exotic cocktails fell into disrepair, a few intrepid investigators attempted to pull it back from the edge of the abyss.
Key among their number is likely cocktail historian Jeff Berryauthor of books such as Potions of the Caribbeanwho went to great lengths to recreate once secret recipes.
It definitely took Jeffs scholarship and his attempts to communicate with old bartenders who used to be in the trade to bring these things to light, Cate said.
By doing that, he saved them virtually from extinction, but also put them on a platform where the craft cocktail bartender looked at them and said: 'I recognize a lot of what I do here.
Housemade syrups, and great spirits and fresh juice.'
The resurgence of tiki culture is partly a response to the craft cocktail movement

In the past 15-odd years, many bartenders once again began to think of their work as an extension of the culinary arts.
Drawing on the lessons of farm-to-table cuisine, they started paying renewed attention to ingredients and technique.
But that shift also brought an elevated level of self-seriousness to bars.
As Cate puts it, Everyone was in their sleeve guards with their waxed mustaches, telling their guest to hush.
'Dont look at me, Im trying to stir your cocktail.
Youre going to bruise the ice by looking at it.'
Though the new wave of tiki bartenders paid just as much attention to the details of mixology, Cate thinks that they also set out to deflate some of the pomposity.
Serving their drinks in fanciful mugs with elaborate garnishes, they aimed to entertain.
We can still adhere to the tenets established by Don the Beachcomber, and reestablished by the craft cocktail renaissance, Cate told me.
Of course were going to use fresh made juice, were going to use quality rums, were going to use house-made ingredients, but what were going to do is bring our guests an experience that puts a smile on their face.
"Tiki Time!
Exotic Cocktails and the Cult of the Tiki Bar," is currently sold out, but names are being accepted for a wait list.
The Smithsonian Associates program takes place Thursday, August 24 at 6:45 p.m.
For the past 96 years, the annual Santa Fe Indian Market has been the largest cultural event in the Southwest, bringing together upwards of 1,100 Indigenous artists from the U.S. and Canada, and 150,000 visitors from around the world, more than doubling the New Mexican towns typical population.
Indian Market takes place the third weekend in August, and it has long been considered the most prestigious arts show in the Native community.
A component worth mentioning to visitors is that theyre able to browse and collect from a huge selection of work with the knowledge that each piece is an authentic creation.
Given the prevalence of the foreign-made fakes market, a competitive component that has taken work away from Native American communities for centuries, shopping, collecting and trading at the Santa Fe Indian Market is a safe and ethical way to ensure that investments are being made into the Native community where they belong.
For artists, the road to Indian Market is not necessarily an easy one.
Artists from 220 U.S. federally recognized tribes and First Nations' tribes work incredibly hard to have their work included during the annual event, and not every applicant gets the opportunity to be part of the festival.
Everyone takes their own path to Indian Market, and just like the art, the creators have their own stories to tell.
Monty Claw is a Navajo beadworker, painter and jewelry-maker (among other artistic talents), hailing from Gallup, New Mexico.
He first applied (and got in) to the Santa Fe Indian Market in 2005, after which his art enabled him to leave an unsatisfying career of construction work behind, instead thriving with the diverse artistic talents he brought with him from childhood.
The reason I do Indian Market is because its basically the World Series of Indian markets.
Its the place to be.
Claw explained that this is the best place to see the greatest collection of living artists, so not everyone who applies gets in.
This is why he continually strives to step up his game, a practice which led him to jewelry-making, in order to bring out how a creative mind works within a cultural background.
Claw sees Indian Market not just as a place to tell his own story, but to encourage the next generation of artists as well.
Todays younger artists have that feeling of where do I belong, how do I express myself?
As generations with more blended backgrounds are born, there can be shame among those who dont speak Navajo (like Claw) or who arent as in touch with their cultural roots.
We shouldnt push them away.
Thats why I like Indian Market, because you have all this cultural diversity in one area and you hear their stories.
They encourage you, and it makes you feel really good.
Liz Wallace is a silverworker originally from Northern California, with Navajo, Washo and Maidu heritage.
For Wallace, being an artist is a way to show what it means to be Native American while staying true to her passion.
Whats unique about Native art is that we bring everything -- thousands of years of history -- the sociocultural context.
These crafts have been passed down through generations.
And thats how so many of us are able to make a living and stay in our communities.
This is why, she says, the fakes industry is so harmful: it literally displaces Indigenous people from their homes.
Its worth noting that Wallace, like artists from every background, creates work based on her individual interests and style, which at times incorporates contemporary and traditional themes.
Even though a lot of my work is Japanese-inspired, by making jewelry I feel like Im part of the narrative of Navajo silver and adornment.
Kelly Church comes from an unbroken line of Anishnabe black ash basket makers in Michigan, a practice that for Church began as utilitarian, but quickly became a way to reflect her own story.
The story of resilience, the story of continuation, the story of tradition.
Even though we keep changing... the ways that we do things...these baskets mean that we are still here today.
Indian Market has been one of the venues through which shes been able to share this story, which carries a tremendous amount of meaning.
Since the late 1990s, over 500 million harvestable black ash trees have been lost to the emerald ash bore, a hardy, relentless bug that was introduced to the forests of Michigan by way of wooden pallets from China.
The bug devastated the black ash supply for Church and her family, but it also got people to pay attention to their history.
Sometimes it takes something like the bug to draw them in to wonder, whats the story and how they relate to you.
While waiting for the black ash population to recover, which could take upwards of 50 years, Church has had to raise her prices and reduce her output in order to preserve baskets for future generations of her family.
I used to be able to go 15 minutes down the road [for materials], and now I have to drive 8-10 hours, plus rent a truck.
Its become expensive for me to make the baskets.
The status of this long-held tradition and the availability of this beautiful art has changed in the blink of an eye, making it more important than ever to see the baskets in person and understand what they represent.
Orlando Dugi is a Navajo fashion designer whose couture gowns and innovative stylings have been featured on the runways of New York Fashion Week.
Dugis contemporary work challenges the preconceived notions of what qualifies as Native American Art, and this has been supported by the Market.
Theyre trying to promote contemporary Native American artists, but they still cherish the old artists.
Theyre trying hard to include everybody in this market - thats what I like about it, and thats I think what makes it so successful.
All of these artists and more will be showcasing their work at the Indian Market this weekend, August 19-20, 2017.
Whether youre looking to build a collection or see the breadth of work by talented, passionate artists in the historic setting of Santa Fe, Indian Market has something for everyone, thanks to the many paths that bring so many different backgrounds together.
Much to the dismay of fans, season seven of Game of Thrones will end on August 27.
However, winter doesnt have to stop coming.
About one month after this seasons finale, a castle in Ireland will transform into Winterfell Castle for a one-day celebration of all things GoT.
Castle Ward in Northern Ireland will host the Winterfell Festival on September 24.
On that day, visitors can immerse themselves in the world of the House of Stark with jousting shows, archery demonstrations and falconry displays.
There will also be jesters on the ground, along with medieval fare like roast hog and locally-made cider.
The day-long festival opens with the Kings Tournament Games, when competitors from a historical reproduction company will perform.
Visitors will be able to meet Boyd Rankin  who played Mikken, the blacksmith at Winterfell  as he presents weapons he forged for the show.
Two Direwolves from the family Stark will also be on the castle grounds.
Actors will recreate scenes from A Song of Fire and Ice and visitors can dress up to take a green screen photograph in the Winterfell Courtyard.
Tickets to the festival cost about $29 (22.50) for adults and $13 (10) for children ages 10 to 16.
Admission is free for children younger than 10.
Although the castle only appeared in the series until season two (when it was burned down), it still remains popular with fans.
One employee at the Castle Ward estimates that they receive more than 2,500 fans every month.
Tickets to the festival are expected to sell out.
After visiting the castle, Game of Thrones fans can continue through tours of Spain, Iceland and Croatia to visit some of the series most popular filming locations.
Other articles from Travel + Leisure:
Its almost Eclipse Day!
That means you're (hopefully) about to witness a rare and profoundly mindblowing celestial event: the first solar eclipse whose path of totality spans coast-to-coast in the continental United States since 1918.
When the moon precisely lines up between the Sun and the Earth and darkness descends, you're going to want to know what's going on and why people are so psyched.
So if you need a little help brushing up on your eclipse knowledge before this spectacular event, weve got you covered.
Here are all the must-reads Smithsonian.com has published this summer on the history of awestruck eclipse chasers, ancient eclipse anxiety, Benjamin Franklin's eclipse satire and more.
Happy eclipsing!
A Brief History of Eclipse Chasers

If youre getting ready to brave crowds and traffic jams in search of totality, youre not alone.
For thousands of years, eclipse chasersalso known as umbraphiles, coronaphiles, eclipsoholics and ecliptomaniacshave sought clear skies in which to witness daytime blackouts.
I doubt if the effect of witnessing a total eclipse ever quite passes away, wrote eclipse-chaser Mabel Loomis Todd in 1887.
The impression is singularly vivid and quieting for days, and can never be wholly lost.
Benjamin Franklin Mocked Eclipse Astrology to Elevate Science

Founding father Benjamin Franklin once wrote in his journal the awe he felt in the face of a sky-darkening total solar eclipse.
Yet in his popular Poor Richards Almanack, he mercilessly lampooned the practice of astrological prediction, which claimed to use eclipses to foretell the future.
In doing so, he hoped to lead his readers toward the light of a more scientific understandingand appreciationfor astronomical phenomenon.
What Folklore Tells Us About Eclipses

Throughout history, cultures have viewed the eclipse through varying lenses.
Yet most of these interpretations were not good, writes James Deutsch, a curator at the Smithsonian's Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
It seems that the descent of sudden darkness has always signified impending doom in one form or another: historic eclipse myths include a monster devouring the sun, a punishment from the gods for human errors, and a prelude to apocalypse.
This New Mexico Petroglyph Might Reveal an Ancient Solar Eclipse

On the other hand, perhaps we shouldn't rush to assume that ancient eclipses were always thought to portend danger and destruction.
In New Mexicos Chaco Canyon, scientists have uncovered a strange petroglyph that looks suspiciously like a solar flare erupting from the sun during a total eclipse.
According to the archaeoastronomer who found this strange carving, the image could be a sign that such an event was cause for celebration, rather than fear, by the Pueblo people who made it.
How Eclipse Anxiety Helped Lay the Foundation For Modern Astronomy

Moreover, the widespread fear and unease caused by eclipses throughout history has had some surprising results.
For millennia, that eclipse-induced anxiety has spurred ancient star-gazers to get better at eclipse prediction, which generally meant getting better at documentation and math.
Their efforts helped lay the mathematical foundation for astronomy.
Thanks, eclipses!
This Is the Gear You Need to View the Upcoming Solar Eclipse

An eclipse is an important time to practice sun safety.
Lucky for you, Smithsonian has rounded up the best sky-viewing tools to help you avoid eye pain, solar retinopathy and blindness when totality sweeps its path between Oregon and South Carolina.
From handheld viewers to telescopes to DIY pinhole projectors, we break down what gear will work best for your eclipse experience.
Enjoy your eclipse viewing in safety and awe!
Though August 17, National Thrift Shop Day, is intended as a lighthearted celebration of an acceptable commercial habit, the process of making thrift stores hip involved unusual advocates.
As I describe in my recent book From Goodwill to Grunge, thrift stores emerged in the late 19th century when Christian-run organizations adopted new models of philanthropy (and helped rehab the image of secondhand stores by dubbing their junk shops thrift stores).
Today, there are more than 25,000 resale stores in America.
Celebrities often boast of their secondhand scores, while musicians have praised used goods in songs like Fanny Brices 1923 hit Second-Hand Rose and Macklemore and Ryans 2013 chart-topper Thrift Shop.
Yet over the past 100 years, visual artists probably deserve the most credit for thrift shoppings place in the cultural milieu.
Glory in the discarded

From sculptor Marcel Duchamps 1917 ready-made urinal to pope of trash film director John Waters popularization of a trash aesthetic, visual artists have long sought out secondhand goods for creative inspiration, while also using them to critique capitalist ideas.
During World War I, avant-garde artists started using discarded objectsstolen or gleaned, or purchased at flea markets and thrift storesto push back against the growing commercialization of art.
Andr Breton, Marcel Duchamp and Max Ernst were among the first to transform cast-aside objects directly into works of art know as readymades or found objects, or to channel inspiration from such goods into their paintings and writings.
Coinciding with (and emerging from) the anti-art art movement Dada, which fiercely rejected the logic and aestheticism of capitalism, the movement surrounding that elevation of pre-owned items would soon have a name: Surrealism.
In his 1928 semi-autobiographical work Nadja, Breton, the father of Surrealism, describes secondhand shopping as a transcendent experience.
Discarded objects, he wrote, were capable of revealing flashes of light that would make you see, really see.
Exiled by the Frances Vichy government in the 1940s, Breton settled in New York City, where he sought to inspire other artists and writers by taking them to Lower Manhattan thrift stores and flea markets.
While Duchamps Fountain is perhaps the most well-known piece of sculptural art derived from a found object, his ready-made Bicycle Wheel (1913) appears even earlier.
Man Rays Gift (1921) featured an everyday flatiron with a row of brass tacks secured to its surface.
While men did seem to dominate Surrealism, recent sources highlight the importance of the Baroness Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven, whom scholars suggest may have gifted Duchamp his famed urinal, making the Fountain collaboration.
The eccentric and talented baroness created God (1917), a cast-iron metal plumbing trap turned upside down, the same year Duchamp displayed Fountain.
The trash aesthetic

Surrealism enjoyed its greatest renown throughout the 1920s and 1930s, with its precepts covering everything from poetry to fashion.
Then, in the 1950s and 1960s, New York City witnessed the rise of an avant-garde trash aesthetic, which included discarded goods and the resurrection of bygone themes and characters from from the golden age of Hollywood film.
The style became known as camp.
In the early 1960s, the Theatre of the Ridiculous, an underground, avant-garde genre of theater production, flourished in New York.
Largely inspired by Surrealism, Ridiculous broke with dominant trends of naturalistic acting and realistic settings.
Prominent elements included gender-bending parodies of classic themes and proudly gaudy stylization.
The genre notably relied on secondhand materials for costumes and sets.
Actor, artist, photographer and underground filmmaker Jack Smith is seen as the father of the style.
His work created and typified the Ridiculous sensibility, and he had a near-obsessive reliance on secondhand materials.
As Smith once said, Art is one big thrift shop.
Hes probably best known for his sexually graphic 1963 film Flaming Creatures.
Shocking censors with close-ups of flaccid penises and jiggling breasts, the film became ground zero in the anti-porn battles.
Its surrealist displays of odd sexual interactions between men, women, transvestites and a hermaphrodite culminated in a drug-fueled orgy.
According to Smith, Flaming Creatures was met with disapproval not because of its sex acts, but because of its aesthetic of imperfection, including the use of old clothes.
To Smith, the choice of torn, outdated clothing was a greater form of subversion than the absence of clothing.
As Susan Sontag points out in her famous assessment of camp, the genre isnt merely a light, mocking sensibility.
Rather, its a critique of whats accepted and what isnt.
Smiths work rebutted the reflexive habit of artists to strive for newness and novelty, and helped popularize a queer aesthetic that continued in bands like The New York Dolls and Nirvana.
A long list of artists cite Smith as an inspiration, from Andy Warhol and Patti Smith to Lou Reed and David Lynch.
Beglittered rebellion

In 1969, items from Smiths enormous cache of secondhand items, including gowns from the 1920s and piles of boas, found their ways into the wardrobes of a San Francisco psychedelic drag troupe, the Cockettes.
The group enjoyed a year of wild popularityeven scoring a much-anticipated New York City showingas much for their thrifted costuming as for their quirky satirical productions.
The term genderfuck came to signify the groups aesthetic of bearded men, beglittered and begowned, a style encapsulated by the Cockettes storied leader, Hibiscus.
The Cockettes split the next year over a dispute about charging admission, but members continued to influence American culture and style.
Former Cockettes member Sylvester would become a disco star, and one of the first openly gay top-billing musicians.
A later Cockettes member, Divine, became John Waters acclaimed muse, starring in a string of trash filmsincluding Hairspray, which grossed US$8 million domesticallythat very nearly took Ridiculous theater mainstream.
By then, a queer, trash aesthetic that relied on secondhand goods became a symbol of rebellion and an expression of creativity for countless middle-class kids.
For many today, thrift shopping is a hobby.
For some, its a vehicle to disrupt oppressive ideas about gender and sexuality.
And for others, thrifting is a way to reuse and recycle, a way to subtly subvert mainstream capitalism (though some mammoth thrift chains with controversial labor practices tend to reap the greatest monetary benefits).
Leading the charge, artists have connected secondhand wares with individual creativity and commercial disdain.
What started with the surrealists continues today with the hipsters, vintage lovers and grad students who celebrate the outr options and cost-saving potential of discarded goods.
This article was originally published on The Conversation.
Jennifer Le Zotte, Assistant Professor of Material Culture and History, University of North Carolina Wilmington
A meal at Cavern Grotto begins with an elevator ride 21 stories beneath the Earths surface.
The restaurant, which opens for business today, August 15, is located inside a vast network of caverns running beneath the area near Peach Springs, Arizona, a small community about 140 miles southwest of the Grand Canyons South Rim.
Cavern Grotto is one of only a handful of restaurants around the world located inside a cavern, and is the only one to hold such a distinction in Arizona.
In a nod to the areas roots, miners buckets and gold prospecting pans are used to lower food from the aboveground kitchen to the dining room below using an elevator and a pulley system.
The restaurant is part of Grand Canyon Caverns, a local inn with guest rooms located both above and below the surface.
The inn also offers tours of the vast cavernsconsidered to be the largest dry cavern system in the countryincluding hard-hat tours that involve scrambling through some of the networks deepest crevices.
(For context, dry caverns are different from wet caves in that water is no longer actively running through them and, therefore, they are less likely to contain newly growing formations, like stalagmites and stalactites.)
It was on one of these tours that John McEnulty, the owner of Grand Canyon Caverns, came up with the idea to build a restaurant underground.
And he knew just the spot to put it: perched above a massive room a short walk from where the elevator opens up 200 feet below the surface.
During our tours, theres not much time to linger in just one spot, since theres so much to see, McEnulty tells Smithsonian.com.
With Cavern Grotto, people will be able to soak up the cavern and feel like theyre a part of it.
But before he could make the restaurant a reality, McEnulty consulted a team of local professional cavers to ensure that building a wooden platform overlooking the room wouldnt damage the cavern, which is estimated to have formed approximately 345 million years ago when this part of the country was covered by an ancient sea.
Every couple of months, this group of cavers visits the caverns, McEnulty says.
Were constantly maintaining, restoring and advancing into new caverns.
And the commitment has paid off.
Recently, the cavers came across a new room covered in quartz and giant sheets of microbes, the samples of which were sent to Arizona State University and the University of Arizona for identification.
The caverns were initially discovered in 1927 when a local man named Walter Peck stumbled and almost fell into an opening that had become exposed after a thunderstorm.
And over the years, they have revealed a number of interesting findings.
One item that McEnulty is particularly proud of is the skeletal remains of an extinct giant ground sloth, which walked the Earth during the Pleistocene Epoch, the same period as saber-toothed tigers and mastodons.
A 15-foot-tall reproduction of the sloth, lovingly named Gertie, stands near the caverns underground entrance.
Every time Im down there, I see something new, McEnulty says.
"While enjoying a meal, guests can also enjoy the majestic surroundings."
Cavern Grotto is open for both lunch and dinner and can accommodate up to 20 people at a time.
And if dining doesn't give you enough time underground, true cave lovers can book the Grand Canyon Caverns' Cave Suite, a hotel room located 220 feet below the surface that's billed as "the largest, deepest, darkest, oldest, quietest motel room in the world."
If youve ever prowled an online dating site, youve likely seen them: pictures of potential mates cuddling with an adorable tiger cub or petting a grown tiger in a cage.
These photos have become so popular that theyre nearly as cliched as the stereotype of Tinder guy holding a fish; Tumblr feeds like Tigers of Tinder and Tinder Guys With Tigers have popped up to showcase users hanging out with the big stripey cats.
What goes into those photos, though, isnt very cute and cuddly.
Last years expos of Thailands notorious Tiger Temple, where 137 tigers were confiscated by wildlife officials, alerted many that the animals that grace these photos are often caged, drugged and tied down for our viewing and petting pleasure.
Thats why, earlier this month, Tinder issued a blog post asking its members to take down the tiger selfies after receiving a letter from animal rights group PETA.
We promise that your profile will be just as fierce without the drugged animals, the post read.
It added that Tinder would donate $10,000 to Project Cat, a tiger protection partnership between Discovery Communications and the World Wildlife Fund, in honor of International Tiger Day.
It may seem obvious that keeping tigers drugged and chained to make them more amenable to selfie-taking is messed up.
But its worse than you think.
This practice harms not only individual tigers, but conservation efforts to protect the endangered wild cats worldwide, says Marshall Jones, a senior conservation advisor at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute who works with tigers and other big cats.
Almost everything about this is wrong, says Jones.
First, consider that there are a limited number of ways to make an adult tiger calmly lie down for a photo with a humanand none of them are good.
Harsh training regimens might condition cats to follow commands; undercover investigations have found that trainers at Thailand's Sriracha Tiger Zoo keep tigers in line with whips, deprive them of food and prod them with sticks to make them roar.
But even trained tigers wouldnt be safe with the public.
Thats why, according to PETA and other organizations, places that market tiger photo ops often turn to sedatives.
Sedatives can be used under responsible conditions: Minnesota Zoo associate veterinarian Rachel Thompson, who works with the zoos four tigers, says that her zoo relies on them to anesthetize tigers when the animals need medical attention.
In zoos, these sedativesa combination of the known anaesthetics ketamine, medetomidine and midazolamare usually delivered by dart.
In some cases, animals are trained to press a shoulder or hip to the mesh of their enclosure so they can receive an injection.
These trained medical behaviors are designed to reduce stress for the animal, says Thompson.
When used properly, I wouldnt anticipate any long term effects from sedatives, she says.
But nobody knows exactly what kind of drugs tiger attractions are using, nor in what quantities, says Jones.
Long-term abuse of sedatives could lead to a host of side effects, such as changes in breeding behavior and problems with eating.
Imagine drugging an animal day after day, says Jones.
They cant live long lives and they probably have all sorts of side effects.
While Thailand and its infamous temple have been the focus of the most recent tiger selfie controversies, there are plenty of places in the United States where people can and do take photos with the big cats.
There are an estimated 5,000 tigers in private hands in the United States.
That's 10 times more than the number in accredited zoos and other institutionsand more than the some 3,900 tigers found in the wild globally.
Many of these privately owned cats are in roadside zoos, which often feature tiger petting and photo attractions, says PETA supervising veterinarian Heather Rally.
These kinds of attractions often say theyre raising money for conservation initiatives, or claim to be otherwise helping conserve tigers.
But in reality, they go against nearly every ideal of conservation.
Reputable zoosthat is, [accredited] members of the Association of Zoos and Aquariumshave guidelines, says Jones.
These guidelines are governed by each species' individual Species Survival Plan, which carefully monitors the wellbeing, breeding and overall genetic diversity of the captive population.
Minnesota Zoo oversees the SSP for North American tigers, which are moved from one AZA-accredited zoo to another on the basis of their plan.
With wild animals, the whole idea in zoos is to maintain the gene pool and to keep the 'wild gene,' Jones says, in part so captive tigers are one day fit to be released into the wild.
But most of the tigers in America arent part of the SSP, says Jones.
And at shoddily regulated roadside attractions, nobody can really say how the tigers are being cared forhow theyre being held, what theyre eating and whether theyre receiving vet care.
Regardless of how sedated the tigers are, Thompson adds, tiger attractions anywhere pose a risk to both visitors and handlers.
Zoo vets like her might sedate tigers for a few different reasonslike to calm them down for transport or if construction was going on near thembut always just until the stressful event was over, and always on the other side of a barrier.
These animals are very large, theyre very strong, and their instincts are very powerful, she says.
I dont think we can predict what the behavior will be when theyre not allowed to be at full capacity mentally.
No reputable zoo is going to engineer a situation where people would be in contact with dangerous wild animals, adds Jones.
Of course, tigers today face many other threats beyond irresponsible Tinder users.
Poaching continues to pose a major threat to tigers in the wild, thanks in part to the high demand for tiger body parts on China's black market.
But tiger petting zoos in other countries can also contribute to that dubious market, says Jones.
What happens after they die?
Where do their parts go?
he asks.
Every part of the tiger is worth a lot of money on the black market.
During the raid on Tiger Temple, wildlife authorities found more than just live tigers: they uncovered a freezer full of 40 tiger cub carcasses, 20 more preserved in formaldehyde, and numerous body parts and charms made from tiger skin.
Every time someone poses for a tiger selfie, Jones says, theyre supporting an industry that causes suffering to tigers and may contribute to the decline of wild tigers, because every time parts go into the illegal black market  it just fuels the demand.
The practice can also contribute to the pet tiger industry.
In the U.S., most petting zoo tigers tend to be young cubs, Rally and Jones say.
For instance, Doc Antles Myrtle Beach Safari in South Carolina advertises that visitors can interact with tiger cubs; Dade Citys Wild Things in Florida advertises petting and cuddling sessions with baby Tigers, lions, jaguars, leopards or panthers.
In most cases, these cubs are forcibly taken from their mothers at a young age, says Jones.
The idea is to get them acclimated to humans early so that they can be handled.
Besides being psychologically traumatic, Rally says, this early separation interferes with their natural development and may cause them serious health problems.
Cubs cant even regulate their own temperature for the first four weeks of their lives, she says.
They dont have fully developed immune systems for the first couple of months of life.
Tiger cubs reach adult size within about a year and a half.
After that, if theyre in the U.S. they usually end up as somebodys pet.
As you might expect, the quality of care by private owners varies tremendously, write conservationists Philip J. Nyhus, Ronald Tilson and Michael Hutchin in Tigers of the World: The Science, Politics and Conservation of Panthera tigris.
Some pet tiger owners are responsible and provide adequate care, but another subset provides inadequate care or abuse their animals or are interested only in illegally trafficking tigers for commercial gain.
The ready availability of tigers for selfie opportunities might create the illusion that the cats are abundant.
In reality, tigers are considered endangered, and populations around the world are decreasing.
Four of nine subspecies have disappeared from the wild just in the past hundred years, writes the AZA.
International Tiger Day is intended to draw attention to the plight of these majestic wild cats; meanwhile, tiger selfies only highlight tigers in captivity, kept in conditions unlikely to help them ever return to the wild.
With that in mind, Thompson reminds online daters that theres no safe and ethical way to directly interact with tigers unless you're a zookeeper or conservationist.
Fortunately, you can always catch some stripey cuteness on non-intrusive tiger cams: both Minnesota Zoo and Oklahoma City Zoo have cameras trained on their tiger families right now.
As for your dating profile, maybe just stick to selfies with your dog.
A long time ago, before NASA and Google teamed up to create interactive maps of forthcoming solar eclipses, or before we ever sought celestial advice from GeekDad.com, our human ancestors would look up at the darkening sky and exclaim something like, what the heck?
Related Content How Eclipse Anxiety Helped Lay the Foundation For Modern Astronomy

A total solar eclipse is amazing.
Ive seen only one beforeon August 11, 1999, in eastern Bulgaria, not far from where I was living at the timebut am planning to be in South Carolina, within the path of totality, on August 21, 2017.
Not that Im one of those eclipse chasers, recently profiled by WAMU 88.5, for whom following the moons shadow is an addiction, but I would like to see more of what NASA astronomer Michelle Thaller vividly described to WAMU: The sky starts to get cool and dark, a couple minutes before totality.
And all of your instincts, all of a sudden, start to freak out.
Somethings going wrong.
Theres this deep basic panic that sets in as the whole world changes in a way its not supposed to.
All of a sudden it feels like youre standing on another planet.
As a folklorist, what especially intrigues me are the folk beliefs shared and the stories told across world cultures to explain this astronomical phenomenon.
According to the Motif-Index of Folk Literature, a magisterial six-volume compilation of myths, legends and folktales collected by folklorists in the early 20th century, these may include a monster devouring the sun, a punishment from the gods for human errors, and a prelude to apocalypse.
Several entries from the late 1940s feature stories about eclipses from Native tribes in South America.
For instance, according to the Chiqutoan Manasi people of eastern Bolivia, The sun was a resplendent man and the moon was his sister.
Eclipses were caused by celestial serpents which attacked these luminaries, threatening mankind with darkness.
This catastrophe was to be followed by the transformation of men into hairy animals and by their mutual extermination.
Among the Apapocva-Guaran people of eastern Paraguay and northern Brazil, Eclipses are caused by the Eternal Bat, or in some cases the Celestial Jaguar, which gnaws the Sun or the Moon.
The Apapocva have a very pessimistic outlook on the future of the world; they are firmly convinced that its end is near.
Very soon Our Great Father will set the earth on fire, unleashing the Eternal Bat and the Blue Jaguar which will destroy the stars and mankind.
Similar feelings of foreboding are expressed in Armenian folklore, according to a seven-volume study, The Mythology of All Races, also cited in the Motif-Index.
As among many other peoples, the eclipse of the sun and moon was thought to be caused by dragons which endeavor to swallow these luminaries.
When the moon was at an eclipse, the sorcerers said that it resembled a demon.
It was, moreover, a popular belief that a sorcerer could bind the sun and moon in their course, or deprive them of their light.
Needless to add that the eclipses and the appearance of comets foreboded evil.
Their chronologies are full of notices of such astronomical phenomena that presaged great national and universal disasters.
Indeed such universal disasters associated with eclipses are also part of The Legends of the Jews, a seven-volume collection by Rabbi Louis Ginzberg, published over the period from 1909 to 1942.
These legends explicitly link solar eclipses to the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden and also to the crucifixion of Jesus.
As explained by Dov Neuman in his analysis of this folk literature, the sun is eclipsed because it cannot stand tragic happenings in world history.
For those of us within the path of totality on August 21, it may indeed appear as if a dragon or serpent is swallowing the sun.
When day becomes night and temperatures suddenly drop, it may feel as if the end is near.
Like our ancient ancestors, we can only hope that the sun will return to shine after a period of total darkness lasting no more than 2 minutes, 41.6 seconds (if youre near Carbondale, Illinois).
And if thats the case, eclipse chasers in the United States can look forward to more in our future: 2024, 2044, 2045 and 2078.
What the heck!
A version of this article was originally published in the online magazine of the Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
Hear songs inspired by the earth, sun, and moon in this solar eclipse playlist from Smithsonian Folkways Recordings.
This is a tough year for the Georgia peach.
In February, growers fretted about warm winter temperatures, which prevented some fruit from developing properly.
They were more discouraged in March after a late freeze damaged many of the remaining fruit.
By May they were predicting an 80 percent crop loss.
By July they were lamenting one of the worst years in living memory.
With relatively few Georgia peaches this season, we might wonder where we would be without any Georgia peaches at all.
One response to that question, surprisingly, is a shrug.
Georgia peaches account for only 0.38 percent of the states agricultural economy, and the state produces only between 3 and 5 percent of the national peach crop.
Another region would make up the loss in production if demand were sufficient.
A peach is a peach.
Who cares about Georgia peaches?
But the Georgia peachs imperiled future is not a simple matter of costs and profits.
As a crop and a cultural icon, Georgia peaches are a product of history.
And as I have documented, its story tells us much about agriculture, the environment, politics and labor in the American South.
Peaches (Prunus persica) were introduced to North America by Spanish monks around St. Augustine, Florida in the mid-1500s.
By 1607 they were widespread around Jamestown, Virginia.
The trees grow readily from seed, and peach pits are easy to preserve and transport.
Observing that peaches in the Carolinas germinated easily and fruited heavily, English explorer and naturalist John Lawson wrote in 1700 that they make our Land a Wilderness of Peach-Trees.
Even today feral Prunus persica is surprisingly common, appearing along roadsides and fence rows, in suburban backyards and old fields throughout the Southeast and beyond.
Yet for such a hardy fruit, the commercial crop can seem remarkably fragile.
This years 80 percent loss is unusual, but public concern about the crop is an annual ritual.
It begins in February and March, when the trees start blooming and are at significant risk if temperatures drop below freezing.
Larger orchards heat trees with smudge pots or use helicopters and wind machines to stir up the air on particularly frigid nights.
The southern environment can seem unfriendly to the fruit in other ways, too.
In the 1890s many smaller growers struggled to afford expensive and elaborate controls to combat pests such as San Jose scale and plum curculio.
In the early 1900s large quantities of fruit were condemned and discarded when market inspectors found entire car lots infected with brown rot, a fungal disease that can devastate stone fruit crops.
In the 1960s the commercial peach industry in Georgia and South Carolina nearly ground to a halt due to a syndrome known as peach tree short life, which caused trees to suddenly wither and die in their first year or two of bearing fruit.
In short, growing Prunus persica is easy.
But producing large, unblemished fruit that can be shipped thousands of miles away, and doing so reliably, year after year, demands an intimate environmental knowledge that has developed slowly over the last century and a half of commercial peach production.
Up through the mid-19th century, peaches were primarily a kind of feral resource for southern farmers.
A few distilled the fruit into brandy; many ran their half-wild hogs in the orchards to forage on fallen fruit.
Some slave owners used the peach harvest as a kind of festival for their chattel, and runaways provisioned their secret journeys in untended orchards.
In the 1850s, in a determined effort to create a fruit industry for the Southeast, horticulturists began a selective breeding campaign for peaches and other fruits, including wine grapes, pears, apples and gooseberries.
Its most famous yield was the Elberta peach.
Introduced by Samuel Henry Rumph in the 1870s, the Elberta became one of the most successful fruit varieties of all time.
Other fruits flourished for brief periods, but southern peaches boomed: the number of trees increased more than fivefold between 1889 and 1924.
Increasingly, growers and boosters near the heart of the industry in Fort Valley, Georgia sought to tell the story of the Georgia peach.
They did so in peach blossom festivals from 1922 to 1926  annual events that dramatized the prosperity of the peach belt.
Each festival featured a parade of floats, speeches by governors and members of Congress, a massive barbecue and an elaborate pageant directed by a professional dramatist and sometimes involving up to one-fourth of the towns population.
Festival-goers came from all across the United States, with attendance reportedly reaching 20,000 or morea remarkable feat for a town of roughly 4,000 people.
In 1924 the queen of the festival wore a US$32,000, pearl-encrusted gown belonging to silent film star Mary Pickford.
In 1925, as documented by National Geographic, the pageant included a live camel.
The pageants varied from year to year, but in general told a story of the peach, personified as a young maiden and searching the world for a husband and a home: from China, to Persia, to Spain, to Mexico, and finally to Georgia, her true and eternal home.
The peach, these productions insisted, belonged to Georgia.
More specifically, it belonged to Fort Valley, which was in the midst of a campaign to be designated as the seat of a new, progressive Peach County.
That campaign was surprisingly bitter, but Fort Valley got its countythe 161st and last county in Georgiaand, through the festivals, helped to consolidate the iconography of the Georgia peach.
The story they told of Georgia as the natural home of the peach was as enduring as it was inaccurate.
It obscured the importance of horticulturists environmental knowledge in creating the industry, and the political connections and manual labor that kept it afloat.
As the 20th century wore on, it became increasingly hard for peach growers to ignore politics and labor.
This was particularly clear in the 1950s and 60s, when growers successfully lobbied for a new peach laboratory in Byron, Georgia to help combat peach tree short life.
Their chief ally was U.S.
Senator Richard B. Russell Jr., one of the most powerful members of Congress in the 20th century and, at the time, chair of the Subcommittee on Agricultural Appropriations.
The growers claimed that an expansion of federal research would shore up the peach industry; provide new crops for the South (jujube, pomegranate and persimmons, to name a few); and provide jobs for black southerners who would, the growers maintained, otherwise join the already crowded offices of our welfare agencies.
Russell pushed the proposal through the Senate, andafter what he later described as one of the most difficult negotiations of his 30-year careerthrough the House as well.
In time, the laboratory would play a crucial role in supplying new varieties necessary to maintain the peach industry in the South.
At the same time, Russell was also engaged in a passionate and futile defense of segregation against the African-American civil rights movement.
African-Americans growing demand for equal rights, along with the massive postwar migration of rural southerners to urban areas, laid bare the southern peach industrys dependence on a labor system that relied on systemic discrimination.
Peach labor has always beenand for the foreseeable future will remainhand labor.
Unlike cotton, which was almost entirely mechanized in the Southeast by the 1970s, peaches were too delicate and ripeness too difficult to judge for mechanization to be a viable option.
As the rural working class left southern fields in waves, first in the 1910s and 20s and again in the 1940s and '50s, growers found it increasingly difficult to find cheap and readily available labor.
For a few decades they used dwindling local crews, supplemented by migrants and schoolchildren.
In the 1990s they leveraged their political connections once more to move their undocumented Mexican workers onto the federal H-2A guest worker program.
Evr'ything is peaches down in Georgia, a New York songwriting trio wrote in 1918, paradise is waiting down there for you.
But of course everything was and is not peaches down in Georgia, either figuratively or literally.
Georgia itself doesnt depend on the fruit.
There may be plenty of peaches on Georgia license plates, but according to the University of Georgias 2014 Georgia Farm Gate Value Report, the state makes more money from pine straw, blueberries, deer hunting leases and cabbages.
It has 1.38 million acres planted with cotton, compared to 11,816 acres of peach orchards.
Georgias annual production of broiler chickens is worth more than 84 times the value of the typical peach crop.
Variable weather and environmental conditions make the Georgia peach possible.
They also threaten its existence.
But the Georgia peach also teaches us how important it is that we learn to tell fuller stories of the food we eatstories that take into account not just rain patterns and nutritional content, but history, culture and political power.
This article was originally published on The Conversation.
William Thomas Okie, Assistant Professor of History and History Education, Kennesaw State University
In 1957, Sammy Davis Jr. was a rising star.
Hed just completed an acclaimed performance in Mr.
Wonderful on Broadway and had a popular nightclub act with his father and uncle called the Will Mastin Trio.
It was a strong comeback from a car accident three years earlier, when a pipe went through Daviss eye, permanently blinding him.
For the rest of his life, he would wear a glass eye.
The accident, however did nothing to curtail Daviss charisma and sex appeal.
Hollywood starlet Kim Novak certainly noticed him.
She was about to film Hitchcocks Vertigo when she saw Davis perform in a Chicago nightclub.
Though they didnt speak much at the time, Davis wanted to get to know the actress.
His friends Tony Curtis and Janet Leigh obliged by inviting both of them to a party at their house.
Soon afterward, there was a blind item in a gossip column: Which top female movie star (K.N.)
is seriously dating which big-name entertainer (S.D.)?
This bit of idle gossip was far from harmless.
An affair between Novak and Davis had the potential to destroy both of their careers.
In 1957, interracial marriage was illegal in half the states.
Most Americans were against it.
A Gallup poll from 1958 showed that only 4 percent of Americans approved of interracial marriage.
On top of that, the United States Supreme Court had only recently ordered the desegregation of public schools, and the showdown in Little Rock, Arkansas, over the integration of the citys Central High School would occur the following year.
The national atmosphere was fraught with racial tension.
As a black man, Davis had been stopped from dating white women before, but this time was different.
Novak was a movie star.
That year, newspapers were calling her the hottest female draw at the box office thanks to films like The Man with the Golden Arm and Pal Joey.
Columbia Pictures was grooming her to replace Rita Hayworth, who studio head Harry Cohn disliked.
As the latest Hollywood sex goddess, Novak was potentially worth millions.
When he saw the gossip item, Davis called Novak to apologize for putting her in an awkward position with the studio.
According to his autobiography Sammy, Novak replied, The studio doesnt own me!
and invited him over for spaghetti and meatballs.
Soon after, they were dating.
Their affair continued for most of 1957.
Davis and Novak were aware of the risks they were taking, but that, it seems, made the relationship more exciting.
She hadnt thought about me anymore than I had thought about heruntil it was forbidden, Davis wrote in his autobiography.
Then we became conspirators, drawn together by the single thing we had in common: defiance.
Arthur Silber, a close friend and companion of Davis, often chauffeured the couple to a rented beach house in Malibu.
They went to great length to hide their relationshipDavis would sometimes lie on the floor of the car under a blanket to avoid being seen with Novak.
It was like we were in the FBI or something, Silber says in an interview.
I would drop him off in front of her house in Beverly Hills and we would set up a time or a day for me to pick him up.
Davis also had a private phone line installed at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas where he worked so he could talk to Novak without the hotel switchboard listening in.
In December, Novak went home to Chicago for the holidays while Davis stayed in Las Vegas.
He missed Novak so much that he found a replacement for his act and flew overnight to see her and meet her parents.
Irv Kupcinet of the Chicago Sun-Times heard about the visit and mentioned it in his column.
Gossip heated up.
There was a rumor Davis and Novak had taken out a marriage license.
Kim Novak is about to become engaged to Sammy Davis Jr. and Hollywood is aghast, reported The London Daily Mirror.
When Cohn found out, he became enraged that his starwho he regarded as property hed invested inwas dating a black man.The next morning, while flying to Los Angeles, he had the first of several heart attacks that would soon kill him.
By all accounts, Cohn was a ruthless studio chief who admired Benito Mussolini and had ties to the Chicago mob.
He even wore matching ruby friendship rings with gangster Johnny Roselli.
There are various accounts of what happened next, but whats clear is that Cohn took out a mob hit on Davis.
Gangster Mickey Cohen found Daviss father and passed on the threat.
Silber was there when Davis received the phone call.
They said they would break both of his legs, put out his other eye, and bury him in a hole if he didnt marry a black woman right away, says Silber.
He was scared as hell, same as I was.
Novak, who has consistently asserted that her relationship with Davis was never anything other than friendship, has also said the studio ordered her to stop seeing him.
They also placed guards around her house.
And I thought, this is ridiculous, I don't want to live like this, she told Larry King in 2004.
I couldn't see what was wrong, do you know?
What was so terrible?
For his part, Davis went to his friend, gangster Sam Giancana, for protection.
Giancana told him that he could protect Davis in Las Vegas and Chicago, but he had no reach in Hollywood.
The threat loomed over him.
The wedding was the only solution.
Soon after in January 1958, Silber was sitting on the bed in the Sands Hotel, polishing a cowboy boot, when he noticed Davis, sitting on the other bed, paging through an address book.
I said, what the eff are you doing?
says Silber.
And he said, Im looking for someone to marry.
The woman he chose was Loray White, a black singer who worked across the street at the Silver Slipper.
She and Davis had gone out a few times in the past.
Now Davis offered her a lump sum (between $10,000 and $25,000) to marry him and act as his wife.
She agreed.
In pictures of their Las Vegas wedding, White and Davis drink out of an oversized martini glass beside a tiered cake with the word Happiness written on it.
But Silber, who drove the couple to their wedding suite, recalls that Davis drank heavily all evening and became so distraught in the car that he tried to strangle White.
Silber restrained Davis and carried him to his room.
He was so hurt, Silber says.
His quote to me, as he ripped my coat apart at the shoulder, was, Why wont they let me live my life?
Silber remembers that Davis was particularly distraught that night at the hotel.
I walked back into the bedroom just as he was putting a gun to his head, says Silber.
I jumped on himand I got the gun away from him.
Then I sat on him with my knees on his shoulders until he passed out.
By September, newspapers were reporting that White and Davis were getting divorced.
One day, a couple of years later, Sammy and Silber were having lunch at 20th Century Fox when a woman walked in.
She was tall and lovely with shiny blonde hair and a husky voice.
Davis promptly introduced himself.
Her name was May (pronounced My) Britt, a 26-year-old Swedish actress who was filming a remake of The Blue Angel.
She and Davis started seeing each other.
Soon he proposed marriage and she accepted.
An outsider to American racial politics, Britt didnt see why race should keep her away from the person she loved.
On June 6, 1960, while in England, Davis announced their engagement to the press.
The public went mad, Burt Boyar, a close friend who co-wrote Daviss autobiography, says in an interview.
When they got engaged, all hell broke loose.
The studio immediately canceled Britts contract.
They assumed that she was no use in the box office married to a black man.
The next day, British fascists picketed the theater where Davis was performing in London, booing, shouting, and carrying signs saying, Go home n*****r and other racial slurs.
Davis told the press, while blinking back tears, that it was the most savage racial attack I have come across.
Back in America, Davis and Britt were inundated with hate mail.
Criticism came not only from white people but also from black people who had long accused Davis of race trading in articles with headlines like Is Sammy Ashamed Hes A Negro?
There were bomb threats at the theaters where Davis performed in Reno, San Francisco, and Chicago.
At the Lotus Club in Washington, D.C., the American Nazi Party picketed outside, but the audience gave Davis a standing ovation when he walked on stage.
Davis received so many death threats that he hired 24-hour armed guards.
He worried his wife would be attacked if they were seen together, so they rarely went out.
When they did, Davis carried a gun or a cane with a knife concealed in the tip.
May was almost like a prisoner in a mink-lined cell, says Boyar.
I dont know of a time when they could walk out on the street and have fun and be happy like anyone else.
Meanwhile, Davis worked for the Civil Rights Movement.
According to Emilie Raymond, author of Stars for Freedom: Hollywood, Black Celebrities, and the Civil Rights Movement, Davis raised approximately $750,000 (about $5.6 million today) for organizations like the NAACP and Martin Luther King Jr.'s Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
He also campaigned for John F. Kennedy during his 1960 presidential campaign, performing in 20 cities, usually alongside the rest of the Rat Pack.
But at the Democratic National Convention in Mississippi, he was booed while singing the national antheman incident that left him near tears.
After he won the election, Kennedy snubbed Davis on two occasions.
Davis had been invited to Kennedys inauguraton gala and was so proud to be going that he had a special suit made.
Britt bought a Balenciaga dress.
But three days before the inauguration, Kennedys secretary called to say that the president was uninviting them.
The move was politicalthe president-elect had won the election by a slim margin and he didnt want to alienate Southern congressmen by presenting them with Daviss controversial marriage.
Davis was deeply hurt and embarrassed by the snub.
Then in 1963, Davis and Britt were invited to a White House reception for African-American leaders.
Raymond said in an email that when Kennedy saw them there he hissed at his aides to Get them out of here and herd the couple away from photographers.
Davis wasnt the first celebrity in an interracial marriagesinger Harry Belafonte married a white woman in 1957 and in 1912, boxer Joe Jackson was jailed for dating a white woman.
But no other prominent interracial marriage received as much publicity as Davis and Britt.
I was a little kid when it happened, says Gerald Early, editor of The Sammy Davis Reader.
Everybody talked about it.
I do think it had an impact.
It was one of those things in the 60s that was part of opening up American society a little bit.
He and May Britt were pioneers in making America more accepting of interracial marriage.
In 1967, the Supreme Court ruled in Loving v. Virginia that it was unconstitutional to ban interracial marriage.
The culture shifted quickly alongside the legal changes that followed and successful movies featuring interracial romance like Guess Whos Coming To Dinner?
(Davis himself had also taken on interracial relationships in the 1964 Broadway musical Golden Boy, where he played a black boxer in love with a white woman.)
Davis and Britt divorced in 1968.
The marriage lasted eight years and resulted in three children.
According to Daviss biographer Gary Fishgall, Davis and Novak met again at a ball after the 1979 Oscars.
They danced together.
Afterwards, Davis was amazedno one had taken a picture of the two of them.
No one even cared.
Once, when Britt and Davis were first married, Boyar and his wife were sharing a hotel suite with them in Miami.
Martin Luther King Jr. came to visit Davis in the hotel and Boyar said, Martin, where are we, racially?
Davis interjected and said, Ill tell you where I am.
Im in the best suite in this hotel, but I cant walk down the street with my wife.
King replied with the words of a slave preacher, who he would later quote in a speech to the New York Civil War Centennial Commission in 1962.
He said:
In the summer of 1972, 834 passengers and one cat embarked on a voyage into darkness.
Related Content Use This App to Get the Most From the Coming Eclipse

Scientistsamateur and professionalset sail from New York on board the 23,000ton luxury liner Olympia with a course charted to a specific point in the open Atlantic Ocean.
They were on their way to witness a total eclipse of the sun, which would start in Siberia and travel across Canada, ending over the Atlantic Ocean, and in front of their eyes, that June.
The ship sought clear skies in the path of totality, the zone where the new moon lines up perfectly between the Earth and the sun, blocking the path of the suns rays to the Earths surface.
The temperature dropped 25 degrees in the 15 minutes leading up to the eclipse.
Passengers waiting on the deck kept their eyes affixed to the horizon.
When it finally came, the suns corona dazzling like a ring of fire, the ships band played You Are My Sunshine.
The Olympias voyage may have been the first cruise dedicated to putting people in the path of the eclipse, but the voyagers aboard the Olympia were embarking a tradition centuries old: eclipse chasing.
Call them umbraphiles, coronaphiles, eclipsoholics, ecliptomaniacs or just eclipse-chasers, around the world, humans with a cosmic fascination have been following solar eclipses as early as they were able to chart and predict the patterns of the sun and the moon.
NASA reports that ancient observers took note of solar eclipses at least as far back as 2500 BC, as evidenced by surviving records from ancient Babylon and China.
As early as 8 BC, Chinese astrologers were able to start making accurate predictions of total solar eclipses, writes astronomer and scholar Anthony Aveni, and by the 9th century AD, professional eclipse watchers were tasked with recording exact happenings in Baghdad and Cairo.
Five hundred years later, Aveni notes, one intrepid observer even kept a record of his trip traveling from Aleppo to Cairo to time the 1433 solar eclipse.
(It lasted 4 minutes and 38 seconds.)
While ancient societies including the Babylonians, the Greeks, the Chinese and the Maya had developed the ability to predict solar eclipse patterns, it wasn't until 1715 that astronomer Sir Edmond Halley, employing Isaac Newton's law of gravity, allowed people to predict exactly where eclipses would occur and how long they would last.
Following Halleys breakthrough, a new level of accuracy opened up traveling possibilities for eclipse chasers.
But even after Halley, mistakes were often made.
Infamously, during the Revolutionary War, a Harvard Professor named Samuel Williams led a group to enemy lines to observe the total solar eclipse of 1780.
The English agreed to let his expedition through, but ultimately the risky trip was for naughtthe professor had calculated the path of totality wrong and the group ended up just outside of its range and missed the show.
By the 19th century, chasing eclipses was considered nothing new for astronomers, according to the American Astronomical society.
And by the solar eclipse of 1878, the U.S. Congress had even earmarked $8,000 for the U.S.
Naval Observatory to make expeditions into the Rocky Mountains, which were on the eclipse's path, crossing from Russia to the Gulf of Mexico.
(And go they did, the society quipped, with railway companies even giving a discount to scientists traveling west.)
One important early figure in the modern age of eclipse chasing was a late 19th century American writer and editor from Massachusetts named Mabel Loomis Todd, writes historian John Dvorak.
Todds husband, David Peck, was an astronomy professor at Amherst College, and the couple traveled the world to experience the daytime blackouts.
But while they often had poor luck with weather, which obscured the skies, Todd always managed to make the best of the situation.
Her boundless curiosity, unrelenting resilience and unflagging spirit of adventure made her a traveler who embraced every opportunity, the Amherst Historical Society writes.
[H]er innate drive and ambition ensured that even as these astronomical expeditions were for David almost always clouded and missed professional chances, for Mabel they were occasions to shine.
She chronicled her travels crossing continents and oceans in search of a few rapturous minutes of sky, and became one of the most well-known eclipse chasers of her time, enthralling audiences with her observations of the awe-inspiring scenes printed in magazines and newspapers.
She later chronicled the history and science of total solar eclipses in a book.
(I doubt if the effect of witnessing a total eclipse ever quite passes away.
The impression is singularly vivid and quieting for days, and can never be wholly lost, she wrote, after observing the total solar eclipse over Japan in 1887.)
By the mid 19th century, technology had advanced enough that photographing the solar sight became possible.
While the medium couldnt quite capture the physical sensation of viewing a total solar eclipse, the quest to document the phenomenon inspired many to try.
The first correctly exposed photograph of the solar corona was taken in 1851 by skilled daguerreotypist Johann Julius Friedrich Berkowski.
Waiting at the Royal Observatory in Knigsberg, Prussia, he attached a small refracting telescope to a Fraunhofer heliometer to get the shot.
Less than 10 years later, wealthy amateur astronomer Warren de la Rue traveled to Spain with a similar intent, but a much larger budget to take 40 glass negatives during the brief window of totality.
Sparing no expense, he pieced together a complete photographic darkroom laboratory at his carefully chosen station in the field.
It included a water cistern, a series of sinks, shelves for a dozen chemicals, tables, and a drying apparatus.
Adjacent to the darkroom he built a house with a retractable roof for the instrument to give him access to the sky, writes Aveni.
He was rewarded with the first images of a solar eclipse to be photographed by a Kew Photoheliograph, a camera and telescope hybrid.
Technological advancements also helped chasers view eclipses more safely.
As the sun can only be viewed by the human eye safely during the few seconds or minutes of a total solar eclipse, early eclipse chasers were in danger of damaging their retinas if they did not wear protective eye gear.
(Indeed, famous solar observers paid the price for trying looking at the sun with their bare eyes, like a 22-year-old Isaac Newton who blinded himself for three days when he tried looking at the sun in a mirror.)
Back in the tenth century, though, a revolutionary Arab mathematician and scientist named Alhazen of Basra first described one method to safely view an eclipse.
Rather than look directly at the sky, he managed to capture the shape of the sun during an eclipse on a wall by making a small hole in the window shutters opposite it.
According to NASA, Alhazen's pinhole method remains "[t]he safest and most inexpensive" way to view a total solar eclipse today.
For those wanting a direct view, a popular historical method was peering through smoked glass.
While this approach may have prevented the physical discomfort of looking directly at the sun, it did nothing to prevent damage-causing infrared radiation.
It wasn't until the 21st century that safe solar-eclipse viewing glasses became widely available.
In addition to the darkened shades, these glasses include a thin layer of radiation-blocking chromium alloy or aluminum, allowing eclipse chasers to view the sun without fear.
The world has come a long way since the first eclipse chasers.
Unlike ancient travelers, modern technological breakthroughs have allowed humans to venture to all corners of the world to catch the solar show and view it safely.
The March 7, 1970 total solar eclipse even found its way into Carly Simon's hit "Youre so Vain," where she sings, "you flew your Lear jet up to Nova Scotia / To see a total eclipse of the sun.
"Little did she know, one year after the song premiered in 1972, a group of astronomers would board the first prototype of the Concorde to peer at the June 30, 1973 solar eclipse from an altitude of 55,000 feet.
Since then, astronauts have even been able to witness the sight from space.
The eclipse trail is now gearing up for the Great American Eclipse in August, the first solar eclipse whose path of totality spans from coast to coast in the continental United States since 1918.
Based on conservative estimates, the once-in-a-lifetime event is estimated to attract between 1.85 million and 7.4 million people.
Whether they're attending an Eclipse festival or taking in the sight from a high-altitude skydive, as the path of totality crosses the country from Oregon to South Carolina, eclipse chasers will turn their eyes to the skyjust as their counterparts did centuries priorall for the sake of taking in the stunning celestial sight.
Editor's note, August 4, 2017: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported the 1973 Concorde flight traveled to an altitude of 55,000 miles rather than 55,000 feet.
We regret the error.
On a recent summer day, just after his final performance at the Smithsonian Folklife Festival, hip-hop artist Christylez Bacon toured the grounds one last time.
The Washington, D.C., native is hard to miss in a crisp off-white suit and fedora.
Paired with a muted lavender shirt and geometric brown tie, his is an idiosyncratic style as uniformly elegant and relaxed as the artist himself.
A beautiful thing happens when I get the opportunity to bring genres and communities together around music, Bacon said.
The Grammy-nominated performer founded the Washington Sound Museum with just that aim.
The concert series juxtaposes traditional and contemporary music from across the globe, presenting cultural intersections with a clear-sighted, unsentimental subtlety.
Among his favorite collaborators on the project is Nistha Raj, an Indian classical violinist with whom he performed at the Folklife Festival.
Their concert, set in the elaborate and expansive Arts and Industries Building, pulsed with a steady, striking rhythm with the help of tabla player Anirudh Changkakoti.
Part strings, part beatbox, the collaboration popped with a spirited and spritely tempo, evoking a moving response from the crowd.
I was always drawn to music, especially Yo-Yo Mas and Chuck Browns, Bacon says, reflecting on his early years.
But I was a shy kid and needed that push.
That push came in the form of a seventh grade talent show.
At age 12, he took to the stage to perform a rap he had writtena song entitled I Can Do Anything.
I was so nervous, but once I started rapping, everything changed, Bacon says.
I was rocking it.
In the years since, he has used his music to evoke the same sense of purpose and belonging in others.
He often borrows rhythms and routines from the D.C. music style of go-go, leading his audience in a call and response to get them singing along at the chorus.
Dont get set into one form; adapt it and build your own, Bacon says, borrowing a line from the Bruce Lee film Enter the Dragonone of his childhood favorites.
That fluidity shapes much of the artists work, weaving together seemingly disparate musical forms and creating something unique and inspired in the process.
For his concert series Hip-Hop Meets the Music of Brazil, Bacon traveled to Braslia to perform alongside vocalist Cissa Paz and harmonica player Pablo Fagundes.
Weve all heard Brazilian music and hip-hop music, Bacon says.
But its only when you combine the two forms that that you hear the many similarities in tone and in rhythm.
When he isnt performing, Bacon is drawing inspiration from the citys rich and complex landscape.
Hailing from Southeast D.C., he defines himself as a performer at the nexus of funky artist and Capitol Hill.
I am on the move a lot and find the citys chaotic environment, especially its buses and subway cars, to be a great place to work.
For Bacon, that aesthetic plays out in his unique wardrobea collection in which each element has a story to tell.
His geometric necktie, for instance, is actually a custom-made cravat fashioned from vintage textiles.
Why does he opt for the distinctive piece?
Bacon simply said, I find regular ties too blah and bowties too uptight.
A version of this article originally appeared on the Festival Blog, produced by the Smithsonian's Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage.
Audio recorded and engineered by Dave Walker.
The kitchen is where Michael Twitty goes to tell the truth.
Its where he first came out as gay to his mother and aunt.
Where he found a spiritual connection to Judaism in the braids of a challah, years before converting to the religion as an adult.
Where he invites others to listen to his sermons about the true origins of southern food.
Related Content What 200 Years of African-American Cookbooks Reveal About How We Stereotype Food

It really is a place of dead honesty for me, both personally and professionally, says the culinary historian.
I'm not gonna serve you bad food, dirty dishes, all of this nonsense.
So, why am I gonna serve you facts that aren't supported?
Why am I gonna serve you charming talk instead of truth?
On a humid July day, Twitty is preparing a test kitchen demonstration on heirloom grains at the Smithsonians National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.
Though he usually wears historically accurate period garb when cooking antebellum food, today hes dressed in civilian clothes, wearing a dark blue t-shirt that reads I will honor the sacrifices of my ancestors.
I think of it as a moral imperative to use food as a vehicle, as a lens to which to view things and to also transmit the truth and tell people really what's up, says Twitty.
He fingers the smooth granules of a rice strain named African Red Bearded Galberrina, while animatedly discussing its history in the soils of West Africa, the American South and southern Trinidad.
The durable grain hadnt been grown in the United States since the early 1900s, but the Carolina Gold Rice Foundation is seeking to bring the African rice back to the American table.
Michael is part of the avant garde that is going to change that, says Glenn Roberts, the CEO of the foundation, of bringing new recognition to the seed.
The story of the heirloom rice has largely been lost to historythe rice, which was grown in the Southern uplands after it was brought from West Africa more than 200 years ago, disappeared from the South by World War I in large part because black farmers who grew it found themselves pushed off of the lands they farmed.
The rices legacy in the U.S. was forgotten, like so many contributions that the millions of enslaved African Americans made to southern history, culture and, of course, cuisine.
Twitty has become an essential voice in the conversation tracing the African roots of southern food.
Its become his life mission to unearth the complex stories of the regions cuisine, drawing out the cultural intersections that shaped it.
Our food is our flag, Twitty says.
Thats why this is important.
When I was growing up, I remember fifth-grade Michael Twitty was taught about his ancestors, like, oh, your ancestors were unskilled laborers who came from the jungles of West Africa.
They didnt know anything.
They were brought here to be slaves and thats your history.
The D.C.-area native first became enraptured by culinary history on a boyhood trip to Colonial Williamsburg in the 1980s.
There, he was struck by the food demonstrations.
When he went home, he started experimenting with historical food.
He hasnt stopped.
After studying African-American studies and anthropology at Howard University, he embarked on a journey to research African-American culinary heritage.
He learned the art and craft of authentic antebellum cooking, gave lectures, travelled to conferences, and even gained first-hand experience working on historic plantations.
In 2011, though, he felt himself growing disconnected from the South.
It had been some time since hed visited the places where his ancestors lived and there were many sites in the South he had yet to see.
I was actually pained by that because I felt inauthentic and I also felt like I was missing something, like there was something out there, something I wasn't seeing, he says.
So he set out on a Southern Discomfort Tour, a journey to research his family history and sites of culinary memory in the South.
He fed this experience into his new book, The Cooking Gene, a unique blend of personal, cultural and culinary history.
He tells the story of the south through the cuisine that allowed his ancestors to sustain themselves, as he travels around the south to seek out his own history, which he learns includes ancestors of West African, European and Native American descent.
The Cooking Gene: A Journey Through African American Culinary History in the Old South A renowned culinary historian offers a fresh perspective on our most divisive cultural issue, race, in this illuminating memoir of Southern cuisine and food culture that traces his ancestryboth black and whitethrough food, from Africa to America and slavery to freedom.
Buy

In the books pages, woven alongside recipes for meals like West African Brisket (which requires paprika, black pepper, cinnamon, cayenne pepper and kosher salt, among other seasonings), he unearths tales of resilience, like how individuals once used mattress frames to barbecue deer, bear, hog, goat and sheep.
I was like no way in hell that a mattress frame was that big y'all could do all that.
But more than one person told me till I found out it was actually a thing, he says.
That was amazing.
I was like, okay, people are doing things, they made that barbecue happen.
Hes still looking for details of his own history, though.
Ever since Alex Haley's Roots, everybody wants to have a genuine narrative of how their family transferred from Africa to America, says Twitty.
It's not true for many us, we don't have it.
To me that's the Holy Grail.
To be able to figure out the ship, the trade routes.
It's something I keep praying on.
So I'm hoping that when people read this book, somebody might have another piece of the puzzle somewhere that I don't have, that can tell me what that's all about.
During his tour, Twitty made national headlines when he penned an open letter to television personality Paula Deen after her use of racial epithets surfaced.
Twitty was two years deep in his research at that point, and in the post, which he published on his food blog, Afroculinaria, he unpacks his frustrations with systematic racism as a whole and his disappointment with how the conversation around race and southern food continued to neglect the fact that enslaved Africans and their offspring had a significant hand in creating and innovating the food that Deen and so many others so happily championed.
He addresses Deen as a fellow southerner in the post, writing:

 This is an opportunity to grow and renew.
If there is anything The Cooking Gene has taught meits about the art of reconciliation.
We arent happy with you right now.
Then again some of the things you have said or have been accused of saying arent surprising.
In so many ways, thats the more unfortunate aspect.
We are resigned to believe and understand that our neighbor is to be suspected before respected.
It doesnt have to be this way, and it doesnt have to go on forever.
In many ways, reconciliation is the thesis of The Cooking Gene.
For Twitty, the word is not about forgiving and forgetting.
Rather, its about confronting Southern history and addressing the complications ingrained in it.
Thats why he begins The Cooking Gene with a parable of the elders in the Akan Culture of Ghana:

Funtunfunefu There are two crocodiles who share the same stomach and yet they fight over food.
Symbolizes unity in diversity and unity of purposes and reconciling different approaches.
For these cultures that are trying to figure out who and where and what enters and what leaves, it forms a crossroads, says Twitty, an apt metaphor for the state of the south.
When it comes to the racism embedded in Southern food today, that crossroad remains profoundly divisive.
Some of our most delicious food came to us through strife and oppression and struggle, says Twitty.
Are we willing to own that and are we willing to make better moral choices based on that knowledge?
Its not a simple question.
Can you really handle the weight of your history?
The baggage, the luggage?
And if you can, what are you going to do with it?
he asks.
That's where I'm at right now.
Twitty will be looking for answers, where else, but in the kitchen.
As he walks on the stage at American History museum, and takes his place behind at the makeshift counter, he starts the demonstration by explaining the story behind the red rice, known for three centuries across continents, grown by enslaved people and by black farmers after the Civil War, a lost staple of the early American diet coming back to life in his careful hands.
Michael Twitty will be appearing at a Smithsonian Associates event which traces the history of Southern cooking on Thursday, August 10.
Tickets can be purchased here.
Queen of the United Kingdom; Head of the Commonwealth; Defender of the Faith; Commander in Chief of the British Armed Forces; Sovereign of the Most Noble Order of the Garter; Sovereign of the Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle; all titles held by Elizabeth II.
Not included in this illustrious list is one of her lesser-used ones, the Seigneur of the Swans, a holdover from an era centuries ago when the (literally) regal avians denoted class, wealth and status.
The strange and ancient relationship between the swan and the British crown manifests itself to this day in a tradition known as Swan Upping.
Some 40 miles west of London, the Queens Swan Uppers arrive at Mapledurham Lock on the River Thames.
Theyre traveling in traditional wooden rowing skiffs, each with three or four crewmen in smart blue or red blazers with royal insignia.
Some have white swan feathers pushed into the peak of their caps.
Royal pennants showing swans against blue and red backgrounds flutter from the boats.
The blue flags represent two of Londons ancient trade guilds, the Worshipful Companies of Dyers and Vintners.
The guilds are some of the richest and most powerful organizations in London, and since at least the 15th century have been granted the right to own mute swans on the Thames.
(Mute swans have the elegantly curved necks, orange beaks and white feathers that most people think of when they picture swans.)
The red flags are for the Queens Swan Warden, the man charged with counting all the mute swans on the Thames between Sunbury Lock in West London and Abingdon in Oxfordshire, a 79-mile stretch of river that takes five days to navigate.
The traditional cry of: All up!
goes up from one of the skiffs; a female swan and her cygnets (baby swans) have been spotted gliding over the water.
The boats maneuver to corral the birds towards the bank where Uppers, as the crew is known, jump out and grab them, restraining the adults powerful legs behind her so she can be examined.
The birds are counted, weighed and checked for injury and ownership marks.
The Dyers and Vintners companies use rings to mark their birds, while the Crowns swans are unmarked.
Today, the practice serves as a conservation tool to track swan populations and the health of the Thames, but once upon a time it was the way in which the crown exerted its control over the swan population on the river.
Swanswho owns them, who breeds them and who eats themis an issue for the British that has generated legal statutes, sparked courtroom battles and engaged town councils in bitter arguments since the Middle Ages.
There is a legend that the mute swan was introduced to Britain by Richard I in the 12th century, who brought them back from his campaigns during the Crusades.
Today, ornithologists believe the bird is probably native to the country, with archaeological evidence for the presence of swans dating back as far back as the late glacial period, 10,000 years ago.
Since ancient times, swans have been associated with tranquility and nobility, featuring in myths and stories around the world.
Their high status is likely to have come about because of their perceived beauty and natural behavior; they are solitary birds, strong and aggressively protective of their young but at the same time graceful and elegant on the water.
Ask a local in a British pub about swans and you might well be told that the Queen owns all the swans in the country and that only she is allowed to eat them.
This popular misconception, often repeated as common knowledge in the U.K., has a kernel of historical truth that tells the story of the swan as status symbol in Medieval England.
Swans were luxury goods in Europe from at least the 12th century onward; the Medieval equivalent of flashing a Rolex or driving a Lamborghini.
Owning swans signaled nobility, along with flying a hawk, running hounds or riding a battle-trained destrier.
Swans were eaten as a special dish at feasts, served as a centerpiece in their skin and feathers with a lump of blazing incense in the beak.
They were particularly associated with Christmas, when they would be served in large numbers at royal feasts; forty swans were ordered for Henry IIIs Christmas celebrations in 1247 at Winchester, for example.
In 1496 the Secretary to the Venetian Ambassador wrote that it was a truly beautiful thing to behold one or two thousand tame swans upon the River Thames.
A century later, during reign of Elizabeth I, German lawyer and travel writer Paul Hentzner described colonies of swans living in great security, nobody daring to molest, much less kill, any of them, under penalty of a large fine.
To protect swans as an exclusive commodity, in 1482 the crown ordained that only landowners of a certain income could keep the birds.
Ownership of swans was recorded by a code of marks nicked into the beak of the bird; an intricate system of these swan marks developed.
Only those who owned the right to use an official swan mark could own swans, and marks were restricted and expensive to purchase.
Any swans that didnt bear a mark were automatically the property of the crown.
This effectively meant that only the monarch, wealthy landowners and some large institutions like trade guilds, cathedrals and universities could afford swan ownership.
Local councils appointed swan collectors to round up wild swans to add to official flocks (the local equivalent of the royal upping) and held Swanmoots, specially convened swan courts that heard cases related to swan ownership.
The penalties for ignoring or defacing swan marks were harsh.
In 1570, the Order of Swannes, a legal document setting out the rules relating to the birds, recorded that if any person do raze out, counterfeit or alter the mark of any swan [they ] shall suffer one years imprisonment.
There were similar tough sentences for stealing eggs or killing adult birds.
The prestige of swan ownership went far beyond their appeal as a delicacy.
They were impressive enough as the centerpiece of a feast, but a swan in itself was not particularly expensive.
The real desirability came from the right to own swans at all, because purchasing a swan mark was so expensive.
To have a game of swans elegantly sculling around the lake of your stately pile required funds and status.
The rules relating to swans prevented ordinary people from interacting with them at all, beyond being able to see them on the river.
If you werent an officially recognized swan keeper it was forbidden to sell swans, to drive them away from your land, to mark them or even to hunt with dogs or lay nets and traps on the river at certain times of year in case swans were injured.
The right to own swans was granted to the Vintners and Dyers city livery companies in the 15th century.
The exact reason for the dispensation has not been recorded, but it is likely to have been a sweetener to strengthen relationships between the crown and the powerful trade guilds.
Swan remained a delicacy eaten as part of Christmas celebrations right up until the 18th century, but even after that, it was still only legal to kill and eat a swan if it had a legitimate swan mark.
As such, it remained a luxury for the rich.
During the Victorian period, swan fell out of fashion as a dish, and by the 20th century was rarely eaten.
It took until 1998 for the law to change so it was no longer treasonous to eat a swan in the U.K.
But as a native species, mute swans are now protected as wild birds under the 1981 Wildlife and Countryside Act and under this law it is still illegal to keep or kill them.
For several decades swans were under threat from river pollution, dog attacks and increasing populations of predators like red kite and mink.
From a population on the Thames of around 1,300 in the 1960s, numbers were down to just seven pairs of birds in 1985.
But conservation work such as bans on poisonous lead fishing weights and the clean up of the river Thames in recent years appears to be turning this decline around.
At Mapledurham Lock, waiting for the boats to continue their journey, the Queens Swan Marker David Barber says the count this year is positive.
On the first day we counted 36 cygnets, and thats double the amount on that day last year.
Swan numbers are rising, and I put that down to the work were doing, talking to everyone from school children to fishing clubs to educate them about looking after swans.
Although technically all unmarked swans on open water in the U.K. still belong to the crown, the Queen only exercises her swan ownership rights on this one stretch of the Thames.
Likely, the reason is because historically only the swans near London were of practical use, and monitoring them is a labor-intensive activity.
The final count on the Thames this year came in at 134, a substantial increase on last years figure of 72.
Swans still face threats from pollution, loss of riverside habitats and predators, but the signs are looking good that the population is returning to a healthy level, and that the birds will be a feature of the Thames for many more generations to come.
At the turn of the 20th century, European art dominated the marketand the walls of world-class galleries.
Although railroad magnate Charles Lang Freer appreciated the work of these Old Masters, he wanted to define a new aesthetic: high-quality art that was equally beautiful and technically masterful but far more obscure.
The Smithsonians Freer Gallery of Art, an eclectic cross-cultural collection housed in a Renaissance-style palace, is the result of this mission.
More than 100 years after Freer amassed his vast collection of Asian and American art, his namesake art gallery on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. retains his eclectic character.
A mix of classical and Middle Eastern architecture identifies the building as an anomaly amidst the surrounding Brutalist structures.
Galleries within the museum reveal a similarly distinctive philosophy.
The Freer Gallery of Art has experienced significant change over the years, most prominently the 1987 addition of the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery and a major renovation set to conclude this fall, but its unique nature remains intact.
This summer, Smithsonian.com reporters took an exclusive, behind-the-scenes tour of the Freer Gallery, which has been closed for renovations since January 2016.
Richard Skinner, the Freer's museum project manager, shared insights about the gallerys refurbishment, as well as its unique architectural history.
Andrew Warner, a Smithsonian.com photographer, shot exclusive photographs of the building in its preparatory state.
When the Freer opens its doors on October 14 (IlluminAsia, a free, weekend-long festival of Asian art, food and culture will celebrate the reopening with food stalls, live performances and a night market), it will include improvements the founder himself would have appreciated: Gallery walls, floors and more have been restored to their original appearance, technical updates have been subtly masked, and the museums status as a serene haven from the bustle of D.C. remains apparent.
Charles Lang Freer was one of the Gilded Ages archetypal self-made men.
Born in Kingston, New York, in 1854, he began his career as a clerk before moving up to railroad bookkeeper and eventually manager.
After moving to Detroit in 1880, Freer and his business partner Frank Hecker established a successful railroad car manufacturing company.
Armed with newfound wealth, Freer turned his attention to a different passion: art collection.
Lee Glazer, the Freer's curator of American art, explains that collecting was a popular pastime for the well-to-do.
Freers collection began as a display of status, but it transformed into a zealous fascination.
In 1887, one of Freers acquaintances introduced him to the work of James McNeill Whistler.
The artist was a leading adherent of the Aesthetic Movement and championed beauty as arts most important quality.
Freer, captivated by Whistlers paintings and artistic philosophy, became one of his greatest patrons.
He also began purchasing the work of Whistlers American contemporaries, thereby defining a key element of his collection: art for arts sake, or more specifically, American Aesthetic art.
He had an independent streak, an aesthete sensibility that really compelled him to look toward the obscure and the exceptional, says David Hogge, head of archives at the Freer Gallery.
He was always .
trying to stay one step ahead of the crowd.
Freer embraced American art when others were collecting Old Masters and, in the 1890s, made another unique discovery.
According to Glazer, Freer realized that Whistlers work shared points of contact with Japanese woodblock prints.
The artist explained that these prints were part of an older, rarefied tradition and made Freer promise to find more of the continents rare treasuresWhistler himself died in 1903 without ever setting foot in Asia.
Spurred by Whistlers love of Asian art, Freer made his first trip to the continent in 1894.
He would make multiple return trips over the following decades, eager to expand on his collection of Chinese and Japanese paintings, ceramics and other artifacts.
By 1904, Freer owned one of the countrys most preeminent art collections, and he decided to share it with the public.
Unfortunately, the Smithsonians response to his proposed donation was tepid at best.
Pamela Henson, the director of institutional history at the Smithsonian Institution Archives, says the science-focused group was wary of devoting resources to an art museum.
After two years of negotiations, plus a nudge from President Theodore Roosevelt, the Smithsonian finally accepted Freers offer.
Prior to construction, Freer traveled to Europe in search of architectural inspiration.
Glazer says he was largely unimpressed but settled on an Italian Renaissance design based on a palazzo in Verona.
He also studied other galleries display techniques and, according to Hogge, filled a notebook with design suggestions.
During a New York City meeting with the gallerys architect, Charles Platt, Freer even sketched a rough floor-plan of his envisioned museum on Plaza Hotel stationery.
The relationship between Freer and the Smithsonian remained tenuous.
Freer had a vision for his collection and placed limitations on its curation.
The Smithsonian was slow to progress with the project despite receiving Freer's generous funding.
Construction halted until 1916, and wartime delays pushed the opening to 1923.
By then, the titular donor had been dead for four years.
Still, Freers influence is visible from the moment visitors enter the gallery.
Behind the Renaissance-style exterior is a quixotically intimate yet grand environment.
As Skinner explains, the building is a unique synthesis of classical Western and Eastern sensibilities.
An interior courtyard (once populated by living peacocks, a tribute to Whistlers famed Peacock Room) stands in the middle of the space, encircled by exhibition galleries and vaulted corridors.
Natural light enters the galleries through massive skylights, and dark floors highlight the artifacts on display.
Visitors travel from one gallery to the next via the central corridor and catch a glimpse of the courtyard through towering glass panels.
Refreshed by this mini-break, they are better able to appreciate the next exhibition.
William Colburn, director of the Freer House, oversees the industrialists Detroit mansion.
(The house, currently owned by Wayne State University and occupied by the Merrill Palmer Skillman Institute, reflects its storied past through periodic public events and tours.)
Until his death in 1919, Freer held his collection at his home.
He carefully refined the array of artifacts, purchasing new items and removing those unworthy of a national collection, and experimented with presentation strategies seen in the D.C. gallery.
As Colburn explains, Freer wanted viewers to have a meditative experience subtly guided by the design of the space.
The Freer Gallerys architectural features are complemented by the scope of its collection.
Glazer says that Freer believed in a universal art spirit, meaning the language of art could transcend differences of time and space and culture, and the best art of the past somehow spoke a common language with the best art of the present.
He thought it was natural to display Chinese scrolls and prehistoric jade alongside Whistler paintings, as they represented the best of their respective eras.
At the time, Asian artworks were treated as ethnographic objects rather than fine art.
By placing American and Asian art in conversation with one another, especially in a museum designed to resemble a Renaissance palazzo, Freer hoped to show the works were of equal quality.
Colburn says, On one wall, hes presenting modern American art of his own day, and on the other wall hes presenting Asian art.
In the same room, in the same space, the art is in dialogue with each other: east and west, contemporary and ancient.
Today, the Freer Gallery is a modernized version of the building its founder envisioned.
Freer placed extensive limitations on the collectionacquisitions of Asian art are carefully monitored, the American art collection cannot be expanded, works cannot be lent to other galleries and works from other collections cannot be displayed alongside Freersbut the 1987 addition of the Sackler Gallery gave curators some creative freedom.
The two museums are connected by an underground passageway and share a focus on Asian art.
The Sackler, however, operates without the Freers restrictions, and Glazer says the boundaries between the two museums have become much more porous over the years.
Hogge adds that the modern museum is different than galleries of Freers time.
Theres a lot more traveling shows, a lot more need to bring art collections in comparison with other peoples collections, so we borrow and loan.
The Freer bequest limited us from that, which is how the Sackler came to be.
The Freer and Sackler Galleries of Art reopen on October 14.
A free, two-day festival, IlluminAsia, of Asian art, food and culture will celebrate the reopening with food stalls, live performances and a night market.
The narwhal's spiraling tusk has a way of hypnotizing those who study it.
The 17th-century Danish zoologist Olaus Wrm, for example, grew fascinated with these ivory spars, struggling to unveil their scientific properties, even as he mocked his contemporaries for confusing them with unicorn horns.
Where the tusk was concerned, Wrm's work was uncommonly precise.
In his book Narwhals: Arctic Whales in a Melting World, for example, naturalist Todd McLeish praises the early modern scientist's "beautiful and accurate illustrations of narwhal skulls, obviously drawn with a specimen in hand."
Related Content How the Narwhal Got Its Tusk

Wrm fared less well when he turned his attention to the animal's body.
As McLeish writes, his "depiction of the narwhal itself looks more like a dolphin or a tuna, with two dorsal fins, one long ventral fin, [and] a narrow fish-like tail."
For all the empirical care Wrm brought to the whale's most prominent feature, he had, in effect, let his mind wander when he attempted to imagine the rest of its body.
In the centuries since, those tusks have remained understandable objects of fascination, even as we've discovered more about the animals from which they sprout.
Many of the lessons we've learned since Wrm's day are on display in a new Smithsonian exhibition, "Narwhal: Revealing an Arctic Legend," at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C.
Some of that information derives from meticulous observation of these near threatened creatures: We know, for example, that three distinct populations of narwhal are scattered throughout the frigid north.
Known respectively as the East Greenland, Hudson Bay, and Baffin Bay populations, these groupings vary in size, but estimates suggest that there are close to 160,000 narwhals in the wild.
Highly social, narwhals travel in pods, often broken off by sex, and communicate via complex vocalizations that seem to be specific to their herds.
For all that, as the Natural History Museum's exhibition also suggests, the more we find out about this unusual creature, the more intriguingly mysterious its tusk has become.
Few have done more to lay those puzzles out than Martin Nweeia, a dentist from Connecticut, who served on the narwhal exhibition's core team.
Here, you might reasonably ask why a dentist, even an experimentally minded one, would turn his eye to the narwhal.
The most obvious answer is that the narwhal's characteristic horn isn't a horn at all.
Instead, it's a tooth that improbably projects outward from the jaw as it develops.
While Nweeia acknowledges that scientists are generally shy about superlatives, he leaps to understandable extremes when asked how he came to study the tusk.
"My interest as a dentist was finding the one example that didn't make sense, and this was clearly it.
This, by any measure, is the most extraordinary tooth on the planet," he says.
From a dental perspective, though, it's not just that one tooth that's strange.
During their embryonic development, narwhals have the capacity to form 14 teeth, but only two ever develop.
In most male narwhals, one of those teeth develops as the tusk, while the other typically remains impacted in the jaw.
(A very small percentage of narwhals do grow a second tusk, but the two grow asymmetrically, the rarer second remaining shorter than its twin.)
For Nweeia, these long-established facts were puzzling.
"This is a marine mammal that eats pretty big fish.
It eats arctic cod; it eats Greenland halibut.
These are substantial fish," he told me.
Elaborating on that, he pointed out that it's peculiar to see such a disconnect between dental morphology and diet: "You would expect it to have teeth in its mouth, something to chew the food with.
And yet, if you look at the narwhal mouth, there's not one tooth."
Given those observations, it seemed reasonable to suggest that the tusk should have some practical function, some evolutionary raison d'tre to offset the challenges it presents.
The trouble is that actually studying the whales can be difficult.
At first, Nweeia said, he and his colleagues were only able to work with the remains of deceased animals provided by hunters.
What fascinated him, though, was an anatomical model first uncovered, he told me, in 2005 that showed millions of nerve connections spread through the teeth.
To better understand what information those networks provided, though, he needed access to living animals.
Getting to them was difficult, since narwhals can be an elusive species, accessible to researchers in just a few locations such as Tremblay Sound, Nunavut and Pond Inlet in the Canadian High Arctic for only a few months of the year.
"You invest all this time, effort, energy into a narrow window of time where you are unsuccessful.
Just think how that feels.
Then you've got to wait another year to have that opportunity again," he said.
Even when you can net a narwhal, studying it is no easy task.
Nweeia and his colleagues had to wade out into frigid water, conditions so cold that they needed to pull on wetsuits to protect themselves.
As he tells it, conventional batteries for their equipment would rapidly drain in the frigid air, but that proved least among their problems.
"We were attaching essentially hospital-grade equipmentin this case, electroencephalogram for brain activity, and electrocardiogram for heart activityand the electrodes that we needed for those had to be attached."
That, in its own turn, meant mucking about with suction cups and other tools that could hold up against the water.
Ultimately, the work paid off for Nweeia.
In 2014, he published a paper in the journal Anatomical Record in which he and his co-researchers wrote that the tusk appears to be a sensory organ.
His work found that the tooth is, at the very least, responsive to different levels of salinity in the surrounding water.
In his book on the species, McLeish writes that some biologists have questioned these findings.
Since female narwhals rarely have tusks of their own, many researchers have long believed that the tusks have more to do with mate selection.
McLeish writes: "They believe .
that the tusk is a secondary sexual characteristic, like the mane of a lion, the antlers of deer, elk, and other ungulates, or the tail feathers of a male peacock."
In their Anatomical Record paper, Nweeia and his colleagues acknowledge that this is likely true, but offer a handful of hypotheses about the ways that the tooth's sensory function might contribute to mate selection and the rearing of young.
Nweeia and his team recognize the need for still more observations of narwhals in the wild in order to make sense of the tooth's sensory function.
But while such studies will be difficult to conduct, much is being learned.
Recent drone footage, for example, seems to show narwhals using their tusks to stun prey.
If those observations are accurate, it seems likely that the tusks are practical in ways that go beyond mating.
Above all else, though, such discoveries remind us how little we know about the narwhal and its mysterious tusk, despite the many years that scientists have spent contemplating it.
There are, however, some observers who've been watching it for longer stillthe Inuit have been hunting narwhal for centuries.
Anthropologist William Fitzhugh, another curator of the exhibition, affirms the significance of traditional knowledge.
"The Inuit have a long history with the animal," he says, "and they have mythology about it.
They know this animal from its actual behavior, from the time it appears, and so forth."
Nweeia, for his part, notes that the discovery of narwhals stunning fish, for example, "had already been talked about by the Inuit elders.
That's nothing new for them."
Attending to such observations has already led to other discoveries.
The book that will accompany the Smithsonian exhibition, for example, quotes one of Nweeia's diary entries from 2005, in which he describes hearing from an elder who said that the narwhal's tusk is readily bendable when it is swimming.
Though Nweeia doubted it at the time, subsequent studies by Frederick Eichmiller, another dentist with a passion for narwhals, bore the observation out, showing that the species tusks could flex a few degrees in every direction.
As scientists (and dentists) continue to plumb the strange mysteries of this animal's tusk, researchers will likely have to demonstrate a similar flexibility.
"Narwhal: Revealing an Arctic Legend" is on view August 3, 2017 through 2019 at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C.
The popular singer and movie star Bing Crosby once crooned, Whats more American than corn flakes?
Virtually every American is familiar with this iconic cereal, but few know the story of the two men from Battle Creek, Michigan, who created those famously crispy, golden flakes of corn back in 1895, revolutionizing the way America ate breakfast: John Harvey Kellogg and his younger brother Will Keith Kellogg.
Fewer still know that among the ingredients in the Kelloggs' secret recipe were the teachings of the Seventh-day Adventist church, a homegrown American faith that linked spiritual and physical health, and which played a major role in the Kellogg familys life.
For half a century, Battle Creek was the Vatican of the Seventh-day Adventist church.
Its founders, the self-proclaimed prophetess Ellen White and her husband, James, made their home in the Michigan town starting in 1854, moving the churchs headquarters in 1904 to Takoma Park, outside of Washington, D.C.
Eventually, Seventh-day Adventism grew into a major Christian denomination with churches, ministries and members all around the world.
One key component of the Whites' sect was healthy living and a nutritious, vegetable and grain based-diet.
Many of Ellen Whites religious experiences were connected to personal health.
During the 1860s, inspired by visions and messages she claimed to receive from God, she developed a doctrine on hygiene, diet and chastity enveloped within the teachings of Christ.
The Kelloggs: The Battling Brothers of Battle Creek From the much admired medical historian (Markel shows just how compelling the medical history can beAndrea Barrett) and author of An Anatomy of Addiction (Absorbing, vividSherwin Nuland, The New York Times Book Review, front page)the story of Americas empire builders: John and Will Kellogg.
Buy

In May of 1866, Sister White formally presented her ideas to the 3,500 Adventists comprising the denominations governing body, or General Conference.
When it came to diet, White's theology found great import in Genesis 1:29: And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.
White interpreted this verse strictly, as Gods order to consume a grain and vegetarian diet.
She told her Seventh-day Adventist flock that they must abstain not only from eating meat but also from using tobacco or consuming coffee, tea, and, of course, alcohol.
She warned against indulging in the excitatory influences of greasy, fried fare, spicy condiments and pickled foods; against overeating; against using drugs of any kind; and against wearing binding corsets, wigs, and tight dresses.
Such evils, she taught, led to the morally and physically destructive self-vice of masturbation and the less lonely vice of excessive sexual intercourse.
The Kellogg family moved to Battle Creek in 1856, primarily to be close to Ellen White and the Seventh-day Adventist church.
Impressed by young John Harvey Kelloggs intellect, spirit and drive, Ellen and James White groomed him for a key role in the Church.
They hired John, then 12 or 13, as their publishing companys printers devil, the now-forgotten name for an apprentice to printers and publishers in the days of typesetting by hand and cumbersome, noisy printing presses.
He was swimming in a river of words and took to it with glee, discovering his own talent for composing clear and balanced sentences, filled with rich explanatory metaphors and allusions.
By the time he was 16, Kellogg was editing and shaping the churchs monthly health advice magazine, The Health Reformer.
The Whites wanted a first-rate physician to run medical and health programs for their denomination and they found him in John Harvey Kellogg.
They sent the young man to the Michigan State Normal College in Ypsilanti, the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and the Bellevue Hospital Medical College in New York.
It was during medical school when a time-crunched John, who prepared his own meals on top of studying round the clock, first began to think about creating a nutritious, ready-to-eat cereal.
Upon returning to Battle Creek in 1876, with the encouragement and leadership of the Whites, the Battle Creek Sanitarium was born and within a few years it became a world famous medical center, grand hotel, and spa run by John and Will, eight years younger, who ran the business and human resources operations of the Sanitarium while the doctor tended to his growing flock of patients.
The Kellogg brothers San was internationally known as a "university of health that preached the Adventist gospel of disease prevention, sound digestion, and wellness.
At its peak, it saw more than 12,000 to 15,000 new patients a year, treated the rich and famous, and became a health destination for the worried well and the truly ill.
There were also practical factors, beyond those described in Ellen Whites ministry, that inspired Johns interest in dietary matters.
In 1858, Walt Whitman described indigestion as the great American evil.
A review of mid-19th-century American diet on the civilized Eastern seaboard, within the nations interior, and on the frontier explains why one of the most common medical complaints of the day was dyspepsia, the 19th-century catchall term for a medley of flatulence, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, and upset stomach.
Breakfast was especially problematic.
For much of the 19th century, many early morning repasts included filling, starchy potatoes, fried in the congealed fat from last nights dinner.
For protein, cooks fried up cured and heavily salted meats, such as ham or bacon.
Some people ate a meatless breakfast, with mugs of cocoa, tea, or coffee, whole milk or heavy cream, and boiled rice, often flavored with syrup, milk, and sugar.
Some ate brown bread, milk-toast, and graham crackers to fill their bellies.
Conscientious (and frequently exhausted) mothers awoke at the crack of dawn to stand over a hot, wood-burning stove for hours on end, cooking and stirring gruels or mush made of barley, cracked wheat, or oats.
It was no wonder Dr. Kellogg saw a need for a palatable, grain-based health food that was easy on the digestion and also easy to prepare.
He hypothesized that the digestive process would be helped along if grains were pre-cookedessentially, pre-digestedbefore they entered the patients mouth.
Dr. Kellogg baked his dough at extremely high heat to break down starch contained in the grain into the simple sugar dextrose.
John Kellogg called this baking process dextrinization.
He and Will labored for years in a basement kitchen before coming up with dextrinized flaked cerealsfirst, wheat flakes, and then the tastier corn flakes.
They were easily-digested foods meant for invalids with bad stomachs.
Today most nutritionists, obesity experts, and physicians argue that the easy digestibility the Kelloggs worked so hard to achieve is not such a good thing.
Eating processed cereals, it turns out, creates a sudden spike in blood sugar, followed by an increase in insulin, the hormone that enables cells to use glucose.
A few hours later, the insulin rush triggers a blood sugar crash, loss of energy, and a ravenous hunger for an early lunch.
High fiber cereals like oatmeal and other whole grain preparations are digested more slowly.
People who eat them report feeling fuller for longer periods of time and, thus, have far better appetite control than those who consume processed breakfast cereals.
By 1906, Will had had enough of working for his domineering brother, who he saw as a tyrant who refused to allow him the opportunity to grow their cereal business into the empire he knew it could become.
He quit the San and founded what ultimately became the Kelloggs Cereal Company based upon the brilliant observation that a nutritious and healthy breakfast would appeal to many more people beyond the Sans wallsprovided the cereal tasted good, which by that point it did, thanks to the addition of sugar and salt.
The Kelloggs had the science of corn flakes all wrong, but they still became breakfast heroes.
Fueled by 19th-century American reliance on religious authority, they played a critical role in developing the crunchy-good breakfast many of us ate this morning.
Photo

The singer and producer Pharrell Williams is the latest entertainer to show solidarity with N.F.L.
players protesting President Trumps call to fire players who refuse to stand during the national anthem.
At a charity show on Sunday in Charlottesville, Va., where violent demonstrations took place in August, Mr. Williams said, Im in Virginia right now, Im home.
Cant nobody tell me what to do if I want to get on my knees right now.
He then dropped onto both knees.
Mr. Williamss display follows a wave of demonstrations across the country on Sunday as N.F.L.
players knelt or locked arms during the national anthem in defiance of Mr. Trump.
The Take a Knee protest has now grown beyond the sporting world, and entertainers and performers are joining in.
The symbolic action began in August 2016, when Colin Kaepernick, then the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, knelt to protest police brutality and racial injustice.
Mr. Trump stirred up the issue anew by saying said in a speech on Friday and then in a series of tweets over the weekend that players who do not stand during the anthem should be fired.
In Charlottesville, Mr. Williams paused between songs to say: For the people of my city, for the people of my state, thats what that flag is for.
When I think about the potential of this country and the potential of this state, potential of these people, potential of this amazing university, there is only one word that I feel on the inside.
The artist then began singing his Grammy Award-winning hit Happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Other performers have joined the Take a Knee demonstration.
At the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, Stevie Wonder knelt on stage and said, Tonight, Im taking a knee for America.
But not just one knee.
Im taking both knees.
Photo

Mr. Wonder made the gesture again the following night, at the same Charlottesville show where Mr. Williams was performing.
Mr. Wonder was on stage with Dave Matthews Band when he took to two knees, and Dave Matthews joined him in the stance.
When you started your research, had anyone else ever written about Charlies Chocolate Boy?
It was mentioned by Dahls biographer, Donald Sturrock, and it was mentioned in Lucy Mangans popular book Inside Charlies Chocolate Factory.
But it had never been looked at in great textual detail.
Dahl has a reputation of being very offensive at times when it comes to race.
How do you think this version would have changed the way we view race in his books?
As far as this version goes, I think it is a really powerful racial allegory that might seem very surprising coming from Dahl.
I think the mold in the shape of a chocolate boy is a metaphor for racial stereotype.
In the early 20th century, chocolate marketing in both the U.S. and England was very tied up in imperialist fantasies and in connecting brown skin with brown chocolate.
In one British ad for chocolate, for example, you had a black figure holding a cocoa bean and happily bestowing it on white children.
Photo

So I think its neat that in this midcentury moment Dahl has this black boy get stuck inside a mold that fits him perfectly  he emphasizes that  everything about the mold fits Charlie, except once the chocolate inside the mold hardens, its uncomfortable!
So what better symbol of what its like to be turned into a racial stereotype than a black boy who gets stuck inside a life-size chocolate mold and cant be seen or heard through this chocolate coating.
So youre saying this draft was antiracist, but then in the published book, the Oompa Loompas appeared, which made it into one of the most racially stereotyping books of its era.
Right.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is published in the U.S. in 1964, amid the Civil Rights movement in the U.S. and race riots in England.
Dahl should have been aware that the happy slave was not a permissible stereotype.
And yet in the original edition Oompa Loompas were a tribe of African pygmies.
I think this arc  from what I find to be a fairly antiracist novel to the novel that has been rightly criticized for its racist and imperialist politics  what it really shows is Dahls ambivalence.
I think were in the right cultural moment to understand that.
Like Claudia Rankine has said, we need to understand how white people imagine race.
And so I think its really telling that Dahl seems to identify with this vulnerable character.
I mean, he himself was the son of Norwegian immigrants, and was bullied at British boarding schools.
I think Dahl always felt like an outsider who was bullied into Britishness.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Yet he was someone often accused of anti-Semitic nastiness, and worse.
I think thats the power of racism  to make someone able to hold these contradictory views at once.
To both identify with the underdog and seem to understand the pain of stereotype, but then be completely flummoxed that anyone finds the Oompa Loompas offensive.
He was genuinely surprised and very annoyed.
So I dont mean for this to whitewash Dahls racial politics.
I just really love the vulnerability and the potential in this first draft.
Why did he change the story and make Charlie white?
He sent it to his literary agent and friend, Sheila St. Lawrence, and she immediately wrote back: Please dont make Charlie black.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The depressing thing about all of this is that the whole message of Charlies Chocolate Boy seems to be how painful it is for a black person to be reduced to an object and treated with violence, and then the Oompa Loompas are all objects.
Wonka tests his candies on them as though they were expendable.
Its almost as if he transferred the original Charlies blackness onto the Oompa Loompas, to much worse effect.
Thats the other thing about this book  it ends up being about the virtuous white factory boy.
Isnt that where weve ended up now, as a society?
We hear so much about the virtuous white workers, and it often seems to be taking black people out of the story.
Charlie and the Oompa Loompas are very similar, both starving.
All the other children are bad consumers because they eat without pleasure.
So its really interesting to think about the books trajectory  Charlie becomes white, and he ultimately ascends in the Great Glass Elevator, the best metaphor for white privilege Ive ever seen!
And all the Oompa Loompas are back in the factory serving Wonka.
This interview has been condensed and edited.
Most of Act I occurs on Rudolfs wedding day.
He openly flirts with his new sister-in-law (Princess Louise), is caught in a compromising position with his ex-mistress (Countess Marie Larisch), and terrifies his wife (Princess Stphanie) on their bridal night.
Though Rudolf is at the center of court life, he is alienated from it  and hes strongly sympathetic (though MacMillan fails to make this clear) to the cause of Hungarian secession.
Ballet, with partnering and pointwork as central components, is an essentially Romantic art.
Mayerling shows an uncannily profound sense of the morbid heart of 19th-century Romanticism.
Rudolf  like so many heroes and heroines of that centurys dramas and novels  seeks redemption, escape, alternatives.
He does so by means of adultery, drink, an obsession with skulls and guns, and morphine.
Photo

Its astonishing how these ingredients are built into a framework for the ballets many pas de deux  above all the phenomenal duets, acrobatically and intensely sexual, that conclude each of the three acts.
Sex is always an undercurrent in ballets view of heterosexual relations; MacMillan brings it to the surface.
Act I ends with the happy-never-after wedding night of Rudolf and Stphanie, in which he plays with a skull, fires a pistol, and treats her with violence.
Act II ends with his first consummation with his final mistress, Mary Vetsera, who at once shows she is on his skull-gun-sex wavelength.
And Act III culminates in a series of duets in which Mary and he, now addicted to morphine, make clear how guns and death  and sex  can bring them the release they both crave.
When Mayerling was new, ballet audiences had never seen duets of such sustained, unpretty sexual intensity.
Almost 40 years later, they remain viscerally exciting, and its brilliant how MacMillan makes us see them (and the ballets other duets) from the points of view of both man and woman.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Dancers who have played Rudolf describe this as the Everest of male ballet roles.
Apart from its titanic partnering requirements, Rudolf has solos in each act charting his descent from questing elegance to psychological torment; were shown his reactions to 15 or more different people.
Even here, though, MacMillans response to his music  a superb tapestry of Liszt items arranged by John Lanchbery  is wonderfully alert.
Mayerling was the fourth of MacMillans six full-length ballets; his Romeo and Juliet (1965) and Manon (1974) remain better known, but this is the one where at every point he makes the music the heartbeat of the action.
Its also his best company showcase, with a panoply of vivid, varied roles that extend and enrich dancers as actors.
Houstons two Rudolfs both admirably carried the entire ballet in its large arc from high society to suicide.
On Friday, Connor Walsh was touchingly vulnerable but explosive; and on Saturday afternoon, Charles-Louis Yoshiyama was impulsive, ardent, anguished.
Mary Vetsera was played by Karina Gonzalez (Friday) and Melody Mennite (Saturday afternoon), both ideally reckless in passion.
Though the older female roles are not yet given full weight, the ballets complex society is always alive and detailed.
The sets and costumes, by Pablo Nuez, are often close to the originals by Nicholas Georgiadis, still used by the Royal Ballet.
The sets, more detailed and realistic in evoking period Vienna, are often superior than the Royals; the costumes fabric look flimsier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is a work to revisit.
It deserves revival here soon.
Photo

CBSs big-swing comedy this fall is Young Sheldon.
Its about an alienated child with severe social limitations and the parents either unable or not particularly eager to understand him, or help him navigate the cruel world that is 1989 Texas.
The title character is the Muppet Babies version of Jim Parsonss Big Bang Theory character Sheldon Cooper, a brilliant physicist passionate about comic books and generalized geek culture, with limited empathy and a rigid set of routines.
In Young Sheldon, which premieres Monday before launching in earnest Nov. 2, hes a 9-year-old boy genius (Iain Armitage, of Big Little Lies), now attending his local public high school thanks to his unusual academic capabilities.
Mr. Armitage perfectly recreates Mr. Parsonss perky insouciance, but that quality is sad somehow on a child.
On his first day, he merrily insults classmates and teachers for not adhering to the schools handbook, winning the ire of all those around him, which he does not notice.
His mother, Mary (Zoe Perry), does notice, however.
Ms. Perry gives the shows most invested performance, in a younger version of the role her own mother, Laurie Metcalf, plays on Big Bang, and her voice and mannerisms are so like Ms. Metcalfs that its startling, though not unwelcome.
Mary loves and worries about her son  less so her other two kids, who get short shrift  while her football-coach husband (Lance Barber) needs a little more coaxing.
Mr. Parsons provides a narration to the show, putting Young Sheldon in larger debt to The Wonder Years than to Big Bang, and also recalling other period-set, narrated, quirky-family single camera comedies like ABCs Fresh Off the Boat and The Goldbergs.
Unlike those shows, though, Young Sheldon isnt funny.
(At least in the one episode made available to critics.)
Its punch lines  or whatever is sitting where punch lines are supposed to be  only come from Sheldons inappropriate responses.
He asks his mother, loudly, in church, when he should be expecting [his] testicles.
He tells a female teacher that she has a bit of a mustache.
Is a child saying the word brassiere the same thing as a joke?
Literalness and a lack of interest in social norms are not enough to sustain a series.
This is something The Big Bang Theory itself eventually took to heart, adding in characters like Amy (Mayim Bialik) and Bernadette (Melissa Rauch) to create a more pleasant variety of perspectives and allow for moments of camaraderie, not just mutual frustration.
These lines dont illuminate character  we have his voice-over for that, and also they speak to the exact same facet of his character, over and over.
The challenge the show faces is that Sheldon is known for his inflexibility, but the show itself needs to move around a bit more.
Nine droogs (and one alternate droog) gathered an hour and a half before showtime at New World Stages on a recent Friday night.
To a chorus of syncopated grunts, oohs and aahs, they began to warm up.
Most actors preparing to go onstage exercise their voices, do some stretching or Zen out with peace and quiet.
The unusual high-intensity warm-up for A Clockwork Orange, however, could rev up Floyd Mayweather for his next pay-per-view.
Photo

Jonno Davies, the shows 25-year-old lead, urged his castmates on through jumping jacks, squat thrusts, burpees, dips, push-ups, biceps work and other exercises, with no rest in between.
Then came yoga poses to cool down, as the Foo Fighters blared in the background.
Just two hours later, Mr. Davies, as the ultraviolent teenager Alex, would be leading the gang in onstage rapes and beatings in the theatrical adaptation of Anthony Burgesss classic 1962 novel, which opens in New York on Monday.
The 90-minute show, directed by Alexandra Spencer-Jones, made its debut in 2012 at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, with later runs in Australia, Norway, Singapore and London.
Photo

Now Alex, who unmercifully pummels his way through young adulthood for sport before eventually finding that his angry impulses have been conditioned out of him, and his fellow denizens of the Korova Milkbar have arrived Off Broadway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most taxing part of being in the all-male cast may be the training.
But the results?
Sculpted physiques straight out of Mens Health magazine.
Photo

Since shocking the tennis world with her win over Serena Williams in the 2004 Wimbledon finals, Maria Sharapova has spent time as the No.
1 player in the world, a glamorous pitchwoman whose endorsement deals run in the tens of millions of dollars and a figure of controversy.
Last year, the Russian-American star tested positive for meldonium, a drug that had been recently banned by the International Tennis Federation.
She returned to the court earlier this year after serving a 15-month suspension.
Sharapova has now also written a memoir, Unstoppable, looking back at her life and career.
It arrives a few months after she turned 30  not exactly old age in tennis but getting there.
In the book, Sharapova writes about Serena Williams, who turns 36 this month and continues to dominate the sport: Serena and I should be friends: we love the same thing, we have the same passion.
But we are not friends  not at all.
Below, in an email interview, Sharapova talks about her unlikely beginnings, how her book transformed into a rallying cry for overachievers, the way art and fashion inspire her and more.
When did you first get the idea to write this book?
From the moment I won Wimbledon, at age 17, my career has been documented.
But it was as if someone just put me inside a television screen and handed me the Wimbledon plate.
I seemed to have come out of nowhere.
When the questions started pouring in about how I got there, when I began telling the story of what brought me to that moment of victory, no one believed it.
Your mother was pregnant with you when the Chernobyl reactor blew up, only 30 kilometers away?
You were spotted by Martina Navratilova at age 6?
Your father convinced a U.S. immigration officer to give him a visa to bring his 6-year-old daughter to the United States to become a tennis player?
I would tell journalists these stories, but no one really believed them, because it was such a crazy tale.
So I decided to write about it.
Whats the most surprising thing you learned while writing it?
I think, first of all, I was really struck and moved by the tough decisions and the setbacks my father, Yuri, had to face in our early years here.
I interviewed him extensively for this book, because I was so little when we came here.
I hadnt really thought about how tough it had been for him  to leave his home, my mother (who couldnt get a visa for years), to land in the middle of the night in Florida with no English at all.
We came here with only $700, and he lost that almost immediately.
We moved through a series of Florida tennis factories before we were secure.
But my father is a believer in getting through.
He took endless odd jobs; he did everything he could to make my career happen.
I interviewed a lot of my coaches, too, for the book.
That was so interesting to me.
On the court, it is just you facing your opponent.
But the truth is, you are always part of a team.
I also was surprised by how comfortable I became, writing this book, with honesty and vulnerability.
Ive faced my career and my job with laser tunnel vision, my guard up.
But in these pages is the young girl who had to overcome obstacles over and over again.
Chris Aronson, Foxs president of domestic distribution, noted that The Secret Service had the benefit of Valentines Day falling on its opening Saturday, which undoubtedly boosted results.
It was also Presidents Day weekend, and so Im really happy that The Golden Circle  with no holiday boost  opened to a bigger number, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You also need to look at the global story, Mr. Aronson continued.
There is significant growth overseas.
Indeed, The Golden Circle vastly improved on the results for its franchise predecessor in countries like Britain, Australia and Russia.
In total, The Golden Circle collected $61 million at the foreign box office over the weekend.
At home, second place for the weekend went to It (Warner Bros.), which collected about $30 million, for an astounding three-week domestic total of $266.3 million.
This movie has turned into the definition of a zeitgeist hit, said Jeff Goldstein, Warners president of domestic distribution.
The worldwide total for It now stands at $478 million.
But Warner stumbled with The Lego Ninjago Movie, which arrived in third place with $21.2 million in ticket sales  sharply less than box office analysts had predicted going into the weekend.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It was a much younger audience than we were hoping for, Mr. Goldstein said, noting that 46 percent of the Ninjago audience was under 18.
The movie played in 4,047 domestic theaters and cost roughly $70 million to make, not including marketing.
The animated Ninjago, based on a ninja-themed line of toys, is part of a Lego-based cinematic universe that Warner has called a business pillar, with additional original installments and sequels exploring different genres planned for the next decade.
But the future of the Lego movie franchise is now a serious question.
The first Lego movie arrived to a whopping $69 million in ticket sales in 2014.
A Batman-themed follow-up had $53 million earlier this year.
And now comes Ninjago with $21.2 million.
The free-fall does not bode well for The Lego Movie 2, which is scheduled for release in 2019.
Many people in Hollywood say the reason for declining returns is obvious: Warner, in search of franchises, released too many Lego movies too quickly.
Ninjago may also have suffered from lackluster reviews, niche subject matter and a feeling among consumers that the property best lives on television; Cartoon Network has found success with the animated series Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu.
Also of note over the weekend:

Battle of the Sexes (Fox Searchlight), set in the 1970s and starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell as tennis rivals, arrived in 21 theaters in seven cities and took in about $525,000, a solid result.
Results were also strong for Victoria and Abdul, which was released by Focus Features in four theaters and collected $152,000.
The film stars Judi Dench as Queen Victoria and Ali Fazal as a young Indian associate.
Stronger (Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions), the well-reviewed story of Jeff Bauman, who lost both his legs above the knee in the terrorist bombings of the Boston Marathon in 2013, arrived on 574 screens and collected $1.75 million.
Jake Gyllenhaal plays Mr. Bauman.
Photo

CBS would love to have another How I Met Your Mother, a jovial and nostalgia-tinged sitcom with a built-in sense of both youthful folly and warm wisdom.
The existence of Me, Myself & I, a comedy that aims for that same sensibility, this time showing a character at the ages of 14, 40 and 65, is not therefore a mystery.
But the execution is confounding.
Why, for example, would they not cast actors who have even a passing resemblance to one another?
Jack Dylan Grazer (recently of the box office hit It), who plays young Alex, looks nothing like Bobby Moynihan, who plays 40-year-old Alex, who in turn looks nothing like John Larroquette, the 65-year-old Alex.
I know what John Larroquette looked like at 40.
I have seen Night Court.
America has seen Night Court.
Photo

O.K., O.K., they cast for vibe and appeal  so everything else must be pretty shipshape.
Alas, no.
Young Alex falls for his classmate Nori(Reylynn Caster), though their love is thwarted by a social catastrophe at a dance.
Older Alex of course bumps into her years later, and lo, they really hit it off.
However, adult Nori (who now goes by Eleanor) is played by Sharon Lawrence.
Alex and Eleanor are supposed to be the same age.
Mr. Larroquette is 69 years old.
Ms. Lawrence is 56.
This ... shows.
Photo

Come on now, stop it.
Its a sitcom, not a deposition, so as long as the story is vibrant and compelling, we can all let casting choices slide.
Perhaps one could, but the story here is emotionally hollow, and wrongly convinced that Alex is somehow an underdog.
Young Alex moves from Chicago to Los Angeles when his mother gets married, and because hes a Bulls fan he feels he is in hostile territory, though his new stepfather (Brian Unger) and stepbrother (Christopher Paul Richards) are completely lovely.
In middle age, his wife cheats on him, but he clearly has plenty of support and resources, and his loving, healthy daughter doesnt seem negatively affected.
In older age, hes a business success who has survived a minor heart attack, and geez, he has no idea what hes gonna do now that hes all rich and unencumbered.
He has no problems.
Jumping around in time doesnt make it seem like hes conquered anything; he seems like hes never had to conquer much at all.
But at least its not sexist?
Bad news.
In the world of Me, Myself & I, women are at best reflecting pools for the men around them.
When Eleanor complains about false rumors regarding her romantic interests, the show positions this as an in for Alex, rather than as a substantial moment for Eleanor.
Middle-aged Alex tells his little girl that the song that reminds him of her mother is Psycho Killer.
Said mother  reasonably  tells Alex that he is an underemployed sad sack who lives in a garage and is therefore not suitable for full custody, yet this is very uncool to say, and his daughter does indeed go live with him.
Also women keep making Alex eat salad!
Salad!
A food for girls!
Basketball good, salad bad.
CBS only made one episode available to critics for review, as networks still often do for some reason, and while pilots are often overly expository or forced, thats not the problem here.
A pilot is a sales pitch; this is what the shows about, this is how youll feel, this is who youll root for.
Alex is an inventor and entrepreneur, but theres no reason to buy what he or the show is selling.
In the sublime slow movement, the pensive Adagietto, Mr. van Zweden did not allow a trace of sentimentality.
The tempo was slow, but flowing; the phrasing sensitive, yet shapely.
But I wanted more depth and sadness.
In the performances that have most moved me, there was a sense that this music could hardly bear to expose itself.
There was little of that quality here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

With these performances of the Glass concerto, featuring the splendid pianists Katia and Marielle Labque as soloists, Mr. van Zweden has filled a gaping hole in the Philharmonics history.
Overlooking Mr. Glasss work had to have been a deliberate choice by a succession of music directors, because, love him or hate him, he has been an influential figure in contemporary classical music for some 40 years.
And this 27-minute concerto in three movements, which had its premiere in 2015 with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, is inventive and unusual.
The orchestra starts off abuzz with rippling, subdued riffs.
Almost immediately the pianos, backed by various instruments, play a slippery theme in chords that dip and rise almost step by step.
The music is fidgety and full of harmonic shifts, run through with two-against-three rhythms.
Theres a mellow, jazzy quality at play: Imagine Gershwin as a Minimalist.
Photo

Most concertos have combative passages between the soloist and orchestra.
Not this one.
The pianists and orchestra are like allies, and that quality persists in the darker second movement, which has long stretches in which two-note motifs keep oscillating and you cant decide whether the mood is soothing or ominous.
The pianists, like trusted guides, take the orchestra (and listeners) through a pulsing thicket of music.
There are moments when what sounds like an echo of that slippery opening theme emerges: The pianos try to catch hold of the tune and pin it down.
Mr. Glass ends his concerto with a wistful slow movement.
Recurring figures in triplets hover in the pianos, while a sighing, spare melody floats above in bare octaves.
The piano parts, though not showy, are detailed and difficult.
The Labque sisters played a scintillating and elegant performance, and Mr. van Zweden nicely conveyed the mix of sassiness and delicacy in the music.
It was an important night for Mr. Glass, and for the Philharmonic, and an encouraging signal from Mr. van Zweden, not generally known for contemporary music, that he wont stint it during his tenure.
But well learn much more about his artistic goals early next year, when he announces the programming for his first season.
It will be interesting, too, to see how the Philharmonics 106 all-stars, as the orchestra billed its members on Tuesday  complete with packs of musician trading cards in the programs  work with him over time.
What was clear this week was that Mr. van Zweden, with his kinetic physical movements and emphatic cues, certainly takes an old-school, top-down approach to conducting.
Instead of a character, though, the Discovery handoff seems to be lens flares.
(O.K., fine, and Sarek, Spocks father.)
Thats the visual style that J.J. Abrams introduced to the universe with his 2009 Star Trek reboot.
There are the tilted and shaky camera shots zoomed in on characters faces in tense scenes.
That movie was divisive among Star Trek fans, many of whom yelled at each other over whether it was actually Trek or not.
The newest iteration of TV Star Trek will engender those same discussions.
But it has enough fan service to keep fans tuned in.
Did I mention Sarek, Spocks father, is here?
A first officer is referred to as Number one!
References to Kahless!
What works

1.
The opening theme

Discovery has the best opening credit sequence of any of the series.
True, it doesnt have anyone narrating that space is the final frontier.
However, the theme song has the familiar pings from the original series opener before it seamlessly transitions into faster paced strings that evoke the score from the Bourne franchise, eventually crescendoing into a familiar Trek riff that has become ingrained in pop culture.
Its overlaid with gorgeous animations like those of Westworld or Game of Thrones.
The look

Given the budget and advances in CGI, this is clearly the most visually stunning Star Trek pilot.
Its almost to the franchises detriment that the show is confined to being set before the original series, which, for obvious reasons, looks clunky in comparison.
Discovery is going to have to get creative in showing off its cinematography while staying true to the timeline.
(On that note: Whats with the hologram technology?
When Sarek is talking to his adopted daughter, Michael, remotely, is he walking around where he is and sitting on a desk at his location that happens to line up with Michaels desk?
Similarly, when Admiral Anderson (Terry Serpico) is dialed in remotely talking to Philippa, he turns his head to make a biting remark to Michael standing behind him.
Did he turn his head where he was transmitting from?
Is he sitting in his office randomly turning his head to no one in particular?
And are you telling me that this technology would not have been used by characters from the Trek series that are set after this one?
See what I mean?)
Captain Philippa and Commander Saru

We dont learn too much about the crew itself here  one of the many departures from typical Trek pilots  but both Philippa and Commander Saru (Doug Jones), give commanding performances with limited material.
Ms. Yeohs Philippa is vulnerable, capable, caring and loyal.
Mr. Joness Saru plays a different  and seemingly more frustrated  fish out of water than Spock or Data.
And his ominous delivery of the most quotable line of the episode  My people were biologically determined for one purpose alone: To sense the coming of death.
I sense it coming now.
was flawless.
What didnt work

1.
The mutiny

Ill admit: Michaels mutiny brought me up from my sofa.
It was a truly surprising moment.
But it puts Michaels character in a big hole.
She has been under Philippas command for seven years.
Philippa seems to value her role as mentor to Michael, even to the point of saying that she believes that Michael should get her own command.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There isnt much evidence that Michael would ever attack her superior officer irrationally for not attacking a Klingon ship  let alone a mentor.
(The episodes title is The Vulcan Hello.
Michael describes this as how the Vulcans came to find peace with the Klingons, by pre-emptively attacking their ships, a plot point I am skeptical of, and one Michael was unconvincing in conveying.)
And how is the audience to view any of Michaels future actions?
To already put the viewers trust in the main character on shaky footing was a risky move.
Kudos to the creative team for taking the leap.
Well see if it pays off.
Where is the ship?!
We dont see the Discovery.
Not even a glimpse of the ship that is the namesake of the show.
This is another departure from previous Treks.
For any fan, its an exciting prospect to  ahem  discover the newest Star Trek ship.
I understand the show is serialized now, but tease us at least!
The long Klingon scenes

In previous Trek series, even when Klingons are talking with each other, they mostly  for the viewers benefit  dialogue in English.
It was a contrivance (Why did Klingons often know English and Klingon, while humans knew only one of the two?)
but a necessary one.
In The Vulcan Hello, the writers made the decision to fix that hole and show the Klingons talking exclusively in their language with subtitles.
It interrupts the pacing of the show when the scenes drag as long as they do, especially as you have to scrutinize subtitles for long periods of time.
Did you catch that?!
A few Easter eggs and callbacks (or rip-offs) that Id like to point out:

1.
Early in the episode, the crew of the Shenzou are sent to the edge of Federation space to find out what happened with a relay.
An object appears.
Philippa asks Saru: What am I looking at?
Saru responds, An object of unknown origin.
Philippa snaps back: Lets get more specific.
In the Voyager pilot, after the ship is hit with an energy wave, Ensign Harry Kim (Garrett Wang) says to Captain Kathryn Janeway (Kate Mulgrew), Captain, theres something out there.
Janeway responds, I need a better description than that, Mr. Kim.
When Michael rushes out of sickbay and to the bridge to warn Philippa about an impending Klingon attack, it was very similar to Kirk sprinting out of sickbay in the 2009 film to warn Captain Christopher Pike about an impending Romulan attack.
When Philippa says, We have engaged the Klingons, I chuckled as I thought of Picard, in one of the most famous Trek moments in history, instructing Worf to tell Starfleet, We have engaged the Borg, another deadly enemy of the Federation not seen for some time.
And if you are really keeping close track:
I apologize to all the filmgoers whod pre-bought tickets, he said.
I apologize most of all to them.
Ive let them down.
Neither Mr. Feng nor Huayi Brothers Media, the films main backer and distributor, have explained why the films release was abruptly canceled.
Huayi Brothers declined to comment when called.
But Zhan Jiang, a retired professor of journalism and communications at Beijing Foreign Studies University, said he thought it was definitely done for political reasons, a view shared by critics and fans who pointed to the party congress starting in Beijing on Oct. 18.
Its difficult to say whats problematic about the film, and there shouldnt be any major problems as it had already passed censorship, Mr. Zhan said.
But October is a special time, first because National Day is highly political, and even more important this year theres the 19th Party Congress.
About 2,300 delegates, most of them officials, will gather next month in the capital.
Historically, the party is wary of promulgating anything that is critical, controversial or even downbeat ahead of the meeting.
Users of Weibo, a popular microblogging site, suggested that Mr. Feng had delayed the release as a publicity stunt, or in fear of a poor showing at the box office.
But Mr. Feng said he had no choice.
There are rumors, but no solid facts, about what happened, Zhang Xianmin, a film critic in Beijing, said about the postponed release.
Its possible that this was all about boosting the market for the film, but there could also be substantial censorship problems.
Commercially, it doesnt seem to make sense to postpone.
Delaying distribution will certainly cost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chinese cultural officials have not commented on the delay of the release.
Security at the congress, like other big events in China, will be tight, a measure meant to ensure that no protests, accidents, controversies or surprises sully the spectacle.
Roads leading into Beijing are under tighter security, extra guards are manning buses in the city and officials and the police across China have been admonished to make sure nothing upsets the weeklong meeting.
The only thing that is certain is that pulling this was not a performance directed by Feng Xiaogang, one film enthusiast said on WeChat, a popular Chinese social media service.
Its problem probably has something to do with the war, the comment said.
Its not in keeping with the gentle warmth of this harmonious society.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many Chinese people, especially in Beijing, become inured to the restrictions and security that surrounds big official meetings.
Yet Mr. Feng and others who worked on Youth appeared surprised by the sudden cancellation after cinemas had already started selling tickets.
At the news conference, Mr. Feng did not disguise his frustration.
I tell you sincerely that right now Im feeling somewhat distraught, he said.
We wanted this film to hit the screens more than anyone.
Liang Pengfei, a Chinese film critic, wrote on a Chinese news site, Observer, that the losses caused by suddenly postponing the films release can be estimated to run to tens of millions in Chinese renminbi, which would be millions in dollars.
Mr. Feng, 59, is a popular director who has learned to work within, and sometimes adroitly nudge against, Chinas heavy boundaries of censorship.
He often sets his stories during dramatic historical events, such as Chinas massive Tangshan earthquake of 1976, and a famine in the 1940s.
Yet Mr. Feng also steers away from overt political messages, preferring to dwell on personal drama.
Youth adds a patina of romance to its depiction of Maos traumatic Cultural Revolution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As.
Mr. Zhan noted, Youth had already passed the scrutiny of Chinese censors, and it was shown at the Toronto Film Festival this month.
But the memories and themes evoked by the film may have prompted senior officials to reverse approval for its release during this sensitive political season.
Based on a novel of the same name, Youth tells the story of He Xiaoping, a young woman in a Peoples Liberation Army dance troupe, who ends up dragged into Chinas brief war with Vietnam in 1979.
Before she joined the troupe, her father was condemned as an enemy of the party and sent to a labor camp.
These hints at Chinas harsh past may have been too much for officials.
Under Mr. Xi, historians and writers have come under increased pressure to steer away from discussing the Cultural Revolution, the convulsive and often bloody political campaign that Mao launched in 1966.
The 50th anniversary of the start of the Cultural Revolution passed last year in near-total official silence, and unofficial commemoration was discouraged.
China went to war with Vietnam in 1979 after Deng Xiaoping, who had recently returned to power, pushed to punish Vietnam for occupying Cambodia and overthrowing the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a Chinese ally.
The Peoples Liberation Armys incursions into Vietnam, however, did not go as planned, and even today some Chinese veterans of the war say their sacrifice and needs have been ignored by the government.
This is not extolling war, Mr. Feng said of Youth last month.
Its to make audiences see the cruelty and terror of war.
On Sunday, he said a new release date would be announced later.
This is not the first time the filmmaker has seen a release date abruptly changed.
Last year, his film I Am Not Madame Bovary was released in November, to disappointing box office results, after its National Day holiday release was also postponed, although commercial reasons may have figured then.
Photo

Q.
Who were the artists who made prehistoric cave paintings in France and Spain?
Directly proving anything definitive about the executors of paintings made 33,000 years ago, in the case of the Chauvet Cave in France  or even as long as 40,800 years ago, in the case of the El Castillo cave in Spain  is nearly impossible.
Given the passage of time, most clues are circumstantial and aesthetic.
Several theories about the well-hidden and anatomically accurate portrayals of animals suggest that they involved important and secret magical or religious rituals, so that only the best work would be worthy.
Hunter-artists would presumably be very familiar with the anatomy of animals after close observation of their prey.
More Reporting on Archaeology

After the famous discovery of the Lascaux Cave galleries of animals, the early archaeologist Henri Breuil theorized that they involved rituals of sympathetic magic designed to insure a good hunt.
However, some of the animals portrayed in the Chauvet cave, like lions, panthers, bears and hyenas, were not hunted for food.
Later ideas included the possibility that the art was produced in shamanic rituals under the influence of hallucinogenic substances, or that the paintings were sometimes simply outpourings of creativity by professional and well supported artists.
Still another researcher, R. Dale Guthrie, points out that the whole body of cave art shows a wide range of abilities: There are many unskilled Paleolithic drawings that are rarely reproduced in art books.
Photo

A nitpicky 9-year-old Sheldon Cooper navigates high school in a much-anticipated CBS comedy.
And Jordan Klepper leaves The Late Show for his new satirical news program.
Whats on TV

YOUNG SHELDON 8:30 p.m. on CBS.
This Big Bang Theory spinoff stars Iain Armitage (Big Little Lies) as the 9-year-old genius Sheldon.
Narrated by the older Sheldon (Jim Parsons), the series begins with his first day in an East Texas high school, where his rigidity and strict adherence to the schools dress code make him stand out like a sore thumb.
While his ambivalence to criticism merits some laughs, literalness and a lack of interest in social norms are not enough to sustain a series, Margaret Lyons wrote in The New York Times.
She added, The challenge the show faces is that Sheldon is known for his inflexibility, but the show itself needs to move around a bit more.
The comedy follows the Season 11 premiere of The Big Bang Theory at 8 p.m., and will premiere in earnest Nov. 2.
MEGYN KELLY TODAY 9 a.m. on NBC.
Megyn Kelly, the former Fox News prime-time host, takes a stab at daytime programming with this new talk show.
Unlike her previous programs, Ms. Kellys new show will briefly touch on politics, and will feature interviews with celebrities and segments on regular people.
I dont feel this is a risky proposition, she said in an interview with The Times.
I know that Im about to launch the show that I was born to do.
Photo

CLNICA DE MIGRANTES (2016) 10 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms.
Wary of the Trump administrations crackdown on illegal migration, many undocumented immigrants across the country have refrained from seeking treatment for their illnesses.
Experts say that poorer Latino communities are particularly at risk and suffer from high rates of obesity, diabetes and liver disease.
This documentary spotlights Puentes de Salud, a health clinic in Philadelphia where volunteers tend to patients who are too afraid to seek treatment elsewhere.
THE OPPOSITION W/ JORDAN KLEPPER 11:30 p.m. on Comedy Central.
The comedian and Daily Show veteran Jordan Klepper hosts this new late-night series, portraying a satirical version of himself inspired by the conspiracy theorists and fringe media figures who have gained popularity in the recent political climate.
I want to expose the greedy globalists who chase power and money, an in-character Mr. Klepper said last month, referring to his goals for this show.
He went on: I also want to get more Twitter followers and build my brand.
The Opposition will follow The Daily Show Mondays through Thursdays.
Whats Streaming

Photo

THE DOUBLE (2014) on iTunes, Hulu and Netflix.
Jesse Eisenberg plays Simon James, a timid clerk whose invisible life becomes a nightmare when his co-workers (including his longtime crush) take an immediate liking to a new employee, James Simon (also Mr. Eisenberg).
Adapted from the 1846 novella by Fyodor Dostoyevsky, this dark dramedy follows Simons futile attempt to adopt his doppelgngers likable traits until the torment eventually drives him mad.
Photo

Season 1, Episode 3: The Principle Is All

In my recap of the pilot episode of The Deuce, I likened the relationship between Vinnie and Frankie to the one between Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro in Mean Streets, Martin Scorseses 1973 film about low-level hoods mixed up with the local mob in Little Italy.
Vinnie is Keitel, the responsible one, and Frankie is De Niro, the charismatic screw-up who constantly makes his friend pay for his sins.
A shot in this weeks episode bears out the comparison: Frankies stroll into his brothers new bar with a waitress under each arm recalls De Niros entrance to Jumpin Jack Flash.
But after three episodes, the Vinnie-Keitel analogy doesnt hold quite as well.
Yes, Vinnie is burdened by his brothers debts and endangered by his screw-ups.
We saw that tonight when a burly Irish gangster, infuriated by Frankies having busted up his machines with a crowbar, pulled a handgun on Vinnie at the bar.
But Vinnie doesnt share Keitels anxiety or guilt, and hes not the type of guy who would hold his hand over the flame just to feel a lick of Hells fire.
He never seems angry at Frankie, even though hes scrambling so desperately to make payments on his brothers gambling debt that hes gone into business with the mob.
Hes charmed by this irrepressible rapscallion.
And because both roles are played by James Franco, its almost as if hes charmed by himself.
There are hard edges to The Deuce and surely more to come later, once some of these dangerous characters go into the movie business together.
But watching James Franco giving James Franco the business is an absolute pleasure.
Eighteen years ago on Freaks and Geeks, Franco played a high-school dope of such extraordinary magnetism that he could get away with anything.
He may be older now, but that rascally smile of his remains intact, as does the preternatural confidence of a man who knows he can talk anyone into anything.
Vinnie should be sweating bullets over the enraged Irish gangster, or over his Faustian bargain with the Gambinos, or over his temporary residence in a by-the-hour hotel for hookers and Johns.
He should be furious at Frankie for running up more debts in a card game while hes taking out a wall for the new bar.
And yet hes disarmed.
No one can stay mad at James Franco, least of all James Franco.
The opening of the Hi-Hat bar provides an instant gathering place for the entire cast of characters  prostitutes and pimps, gangsters and corrupt cops, and perhaps some of the bars former clientele, provided they can take their daiquiris without umbrellas  and positions the Martino brothers as the leaders of their illicit community.
That so many different parties, many of them natural adversaries, could convene under one roof is a testament to Vinnies glad-handing affability.
The brutal final scene of the debut episode lingers: What will Vinnie do when hes confronted by the ugliest realities of this world?
Will he continue to allow someone like C.C.
to pass by, secure in the knowledge that someone like Vinnie wont do anything to stop him?
And will there be a price for his inaction?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our other main character, Eileen, continues to be enchanted by the movie business, which she hopes might be her ticket out of the pimp-free entrepreneurship that finds her witnessing a stabbing and fielding answering-machine messages from a client with the clap.
Ruby (Pernell Walker), a.k.a.
Thunder Thighs, takes Eileen to a makeshift studio on 49th Street where men pay $40 each just to watch a pornographic film being shot.
When Eileen complains about the amateurish lighting  one appearance in a porno and shes suddenly Gordon Willis  Ruby shares the shocking news that theres no film in the camera.
Its better for the cast and crew to pretend to make a movie than to actually produce one because the vice cops will descend upon them.
Photo

Season 3, Episode 3: All Debts Paid

When we last left Claire and Jamie, they were in limbo: Claire in a stalled marriage, Jamie on the way to prison for his familys sake.
This weeks episode is here to move them past these hard times and start a new act of their epic.
But the only way out is through, so first comes purgatory.
Structurally, the episode pits Claires perpetually collapsing marriage against Jamies time in Ardsmuir Prison under warden John William Grey  the same William Grey he spared before the Battle of Prestonpans last season.
Grey has fulfilled his Outlander contractual obligation to grow up handsome, and as played by David Berry, gives Jamie a worthy foil.
In fact, some of the episodes most interesting tension comes from how similar Jamie and John Greys arc is to the beginning of Jamie and Claires: one a prisoner of the other, a developing relationship of mutual respect and common ground, the difficulty of building trust in such a situation.
Comparing those arcs too directly gets awkward  for instance, Jamie is given space to be unsettled by unwanted advances in a way Claire never quite was.
But Berry and Sam Heughan have pleasantly antagonistic chemistry, and John Greys good-faith governorship and genuine grief for the particular friend he lost at Culloden is enough for Jamie to warm to him.
(Quite a bit  the standoff as Jamie returns from his prison break and dares John Grey to kill him is keep your friends close and your enemies so close youre almost kissing territory.)
Despite the dire circumstances, Jamies at his best here: unafraid to speak truth to power, looking out for others, and by episodes end, able to believe some people can mean well.
Its enough to give him hope.
Its no coincidence he begins with a lass and ends with being able to say Claires name without breaking down.
Claire isnt having the same luck reconciling her memories of Jamie.
As Jamie finds purpose amid the prison grime, Claires airy house and tidy wardrobe mask her brittleness.
And the episode races through the years so fast that you wonder whether the show is merely tying up loose ends, or if were supposed to feel this viscerally as Claires losing years of her life to the blur of time.
Id like to think its done for feeling, but its odd to have skipped so completely over things like Claires becoming a doctor, especially given those early glimpses of what shed be up against once she got there.
If being a doctor really was her calling, we get no sense that it fulfilled her, or even affected her.
Photo

Charles Bradley, the journeyman soul singer whose beleaguered rasp and passionate live performances turned him from an itinerant worker and small-time James Brown impersonator into a late-in-life headliner, died on Saturday in Brooklyn.
He was 68.
The cause was liver cancer, said Shazila Mohammed, a publicist for the singer.
Mr. Bradley had stomach cancer diagnosed in the fall of 2016.
He underwent treatment and returned to touring this year, but canceled his remaining live shows earlier this month and announced that the cancer had spread to his liver.
I love all of you out there that made my dreams come true, Mr. Bradley said at the time.
Known as the Screaming Eagle of Soul for his serrated cries of pain and longing, Mr. Bradley released his first album, No Time for Dreaming, in 2011 at the age of 62.
The New York Times critic Jon Caramanica wrote that the LP wants to be part of no movement, heralds no shift in the sonic landscape; it just wants to be.
It has the feeling of childbirth, messy and noisy and urgent.
Mr. Bradley followed that with two more albums  Victim of Love in 2013 and Changes last year  all for Dunham Records, a division of the modern Brooklyn soul label Daptone.
In a statement, Gabriel Roth, a founder of Daptone who discovered Mr. Bradley as the James Brown tribute act Black Velvet, said: Charles was somehow one of the meekest and strongest people Ive ever known.
His pain was a cry for universal love and humanity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Like his idol Brown or his fellow soul revivalist Sharon Jones, whose career closely mirrored his own, Mr. Bradley sang wearily of personal travails and social concerns, often emphasizing the overlap between the two.
Why is it so hard to make it in America?
he cried on his debut.
On The World (Is Going Up in Flames), he added: This world/is going up in flames/and nobody/wants to take the blame.
In the program, the creators write of their own alarm at living in a species-devastating age that some call the Sixth Extinction, as Elizabeth Kolbert does in her book of the same name.
They intend A Period of Animate Existence  whose clinical-sounding title is a wordier way of saying life  to be a contemplation of the dangers facing us, and of whatever future we might have.
Photo

Thats unlikely to be the takeaway for spectators, though the first section seems promising.
Structured like a symphony, in five movements with pauses in between, the show begins with a column of light projected from the stage, panning very slowly across the darkened house.
(The lighting design is by Tyler Micoleau.)
Underneath, an orchestra plays rumbling music that could be coming from the bowels of the earth, from the time of creation.
In the second movement, a cellist (Daniel de Jess) plays and a chorus crisscrosses the stage around him, singing.
A swath of humanity, these people are dressed in street clothes, and their simple choreography (by Beth Gill) is strikingly beautiful.
When they lie side by side on the floor, moving as one, the performance reaches its sole moment of transcendence.
A food cart is the star of movement three, talking to us through its LED sign.
Let us learn and fast what every god learns the hard way, it says.
The right to immortality is no privilege.
True enough, but the shows curiosity about machines and their possible ability to think feels awkward, even a little feigned, alongside its more organic interest in children and elders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are lots of both in this production, notably in the overlong movement four, which unfortunately is where the show goes awry.
The style of each section is different, and this one is essentially a pageant with a brittle narrative strung through it, with neither the charm of the homemade nor the polish of the professional.
The one bright spot is the bandstand, its backdrop a red circle edged in flames spiked with giant matchsticks.
But at least the environmental theme there is clear, whereas movement five is mostly just a head-scratcher unless youre in possession of a news release that explains the pairs of wrestlers struggling on floor mats as a visualization of Henri Bergsons elan vital, the vital impulse that gives life its uniqueness (and, in the philosophers optimistic view, explained the evolution of higher forms).
Arrayed behind them, in majestic costumes by Loren Shaw that fuse the papal with the insectoid (they are meant to suggest trilobites, long extinct), is a choir called the Crossing, softly chanting.
Such elements of beauty and humor glimmer occasionally throughout A Period of Animate Existence.
More often, it feels like a show whose ambitions are so weighty that its true form is still buried under the research somewhere.
Its foiled, too, by the desire to change the creative language with each movement.
These disparate pieces are intended to add up to something whole.
At this stage of the experiment, they dont.
Photo

The drama surrounding Berlins iconic Volksbhne theater took another surprising turn on Friday afternoon when a group of left-wing activists moved into the building and proclaimed they were occupying the institution with the aim of turning it into a collectively run theater.
The Volksbhne had become a flash point for a tense debate about the citys future, fueled by concerns about gentrification and globalization, ever since the announcement two years ago that the theaters longtime director, Frank Castorf, was to be ousted and replaced with Chris Dercon, the former director of the Tate Modern in London.
According to Sarah Waterfeld, a spokeswoman for the occupying group, the takeover had been planned for several months and was carried out with the approval of a large portion of the Volksbhnes staff.
In an online statement, the collective described their goal as the reclamation of public space in a decade of privatization and commercialization and invited artists working with the new director to collaborate with them.
Mr. Dercon, it stated, was welcome to continue his work at a stage his team had already built at the citys disused Tempelhof airport.
Established in 1890 as a theater for the working class, the Volksbhne had become internationally renowned under Mr. Castorf for its ambitious, politically inflected productions, and Mr. Dercons appointment by Berlin officials was seen by many as a rejection of the theaters left-wing, experimental pedigree.
The Belgian-born Mr. Dercon, a powerful figure in the art world with relatively little experience in theater, planned to turn the site into a venue focusing largely on international productions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The feud between supporters of Mr. Castorf and the new leadership had become especially heated in recent months, as the official debut of Mr. Dercons tenure approached.
Over 40,000 people signed an online petition to reopen the debate about the theaters future, and for two weeks this summer, feces were deposited in front of Mr. Dercons office door.
His directorship officially kicked off two weeks ago with a 10-hour dance event at Tempelhof.
Photo

Star Trek: Discovery introduces new faces in a different era, but retains the same overarching themes.
And Spencer and Joe land promising deals in the Season 3 finale of Ballers.
Whats on TV

STAR TREK: DISCOVERY 8:30 p.m. on CBS.
This long-awaited iteration of the Star Trek franchise is set a decade before the original series of the 1960s.
The United Federation of Planets has fashioned a near-utopia, but its peace is threatened by the hostile Klingons, a humanoid warrior species.
The crew answers to Starfleet First Officer Michael Burnham (Sonequa Martin-Green, The Walking Dead), a protg of Spocks father, the Vulcan Ambassador Sarek.
In an interview with The New York Times, one of the creators, Alex Kurtzman, said this series could live in the nuance and moral quandary that you dont have time for in the films.
Episodes after the first will be available on the networks streaming service, CBS All Access.
TEEN WOLF 8 p.m. on MTV.
The fierce werewolf hunter Gerard (Michael Hogan) teams up with the Anuk-Ite, an invisible entity, to rid Beacon Hills of the protagonist Scott (Tyler Posey) and the rest of the towns supernatural creatures.
LEGION OF BROTHERS (2017) 9 p.m. on CNN.
Immediately following the Sept. 11 attacks, the American military deployed less than 100 soldiers from its elite Green Berets unit to Afghanistan on a secret mission to overthrow the Taliban, hunt down Osama bin-Laden and weaken Al Qaeda.
Some of those soldiers look back on their traumatic experiences in this documentary by Greg Barker, sharing their stories with a tinge of pride, sorrow and regret.
The subject matter is a lot to tackle, and while the documentary doesnt offer many clarifying details, Ken Jaworowski wrote in The Times, Mr. Barker doesnt disregard the frustration and confusion that go hand-in-hand with bravery and dedication.
Photo

BALLERS 10 p.m. on HBO; also on HBO streaming platforms.
Spencer (Dwayne Johnson) and Joes (Rob Corddry) shaky plan to move the Oakland Raiders to Las Vegas looks up in this Season 3 finale.
Ricky (John David Washington) sets his eyes on a new chapter after a concussion strips him of a deal with the New England Patriots.
And Jason (Troy Garity) offers Charles (Omar Benson Miller) a second chance on a new role.
Whats Streaming

Photo

YOU ONLY LIVE ONCE (1937) on Mubi.
This film noir classic by the German-Austrian director Fritz Lang upholds his works recurring theme: the fight against ones own (often bleak) destiny.
Henry Fonda portrays Eddie, a three-time convict who wants to set his life straight and raise a family with his wife, Joan (Sylvia Sidney), the public defenders secretary.
After landing behind bars with a life sentence for a crime he didnt commit, Eddie is pardoned just as he attempts to escape.
But panic and paranoia drive him to murder a prison chaplain on his way out, and the couple have no choice but to go on the run.
The message?
No matter how much we resist, fate catches up to us.
The Royal Shakespeare Company has the largest costume department in British theater, and it employs 30 members of staff, including experts in armor and millinery.
The sale was raising money for the companys Stitch in Time campaign, to renovate its costume workshop and to finance specialist apprenticeships.
Around a third of its stock  items too worn or too specific to be reused  was on sale at bargain prices: from 50 pence, or 67 cents, for a fan to 30 pounds, or roughly $40, for a velvet cloak.
The life-span of Royal Shakespeare Company costumes, recycled across productions and for up to 100 performances, is among what makes them special, and every item has a sewn-in label identifying the actor who wore it last, and in which show.
Beady-eyed rummagers could pick up Anita Dobsons grubby underskirt from The Merry Wives of Windsor, or Joanna Vanderhams silver gown from Othello.
One happy shopper claimed to have found a dress worn by Jane Asher.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It can be bittersweet, however.
What makes this so emotional for someone like me  I put on my first R.S.C.
costume in 1966  are the name tags, said the British actor Patrick Stewart, who fronted the Stitch in Time campaign.
I already found one item worn by a dear friend of mine, long gone.
Photo

The core members of the hip-hop group N.W.A battle a host of challenges to make a name for themselves in Straight Outta Compton.
And Season 13 of Greys Anatomy has its premiere on Hulu.
What Streaming

STRAIGHT OUTTA COMPTON (2015) on iTunes, Amazon and HBO streaming platforms.
The director F. Gary Gray chronicles the formation of the hip-hop group N.W.A, focusing on half of its original members: Eazy E (Jason Mitchell), Ice Cube (his son OShea Jackson Jr.) and Dr. Dre (Corey Hawkins).
Each artist brought distinctive flair to rap.
Dr. Dre birthed catchy beats, Ice Cube wrote memorable lines, and Eazy E had an attitude to reckon with.
But as they catapulted to fame from Compton in 1980s Los Angeles, forces from within and without (including racism and a manipulative manager) led to rifts within the group and its eventual dissolution.
This biopic, named after N.W.As debut album, will end its HBO run next Saturday.
Photo

POLDARK (1996) on Britbox.
John Bowe stars as Ross Poldark, an officer who escaped France after the Revolutionary War only to find that his life in his native Cornwall has been torn apart.
His father has died, his former fiance is engaged to his cousin, and his uncle is determined to sell the familys mine.
With Rosss return comes his mission to reunite with his love and save the Poldark estate.
This television movie is one of many adaptations of the historical novel series by the author Winston Graham.
The latest is a PBS Masterpiece series starring the handsome Aidan Turner, which airs its third season on Oct. 1.
GREYS ANATOMY on Hulu.
In the previous season of this drama, an explosion at Grey Sloan Memorial left Stephanie (Jerrika Hinton) and a young girl trapped in a secluded part of the hospital.
After sustaining severe burns and saving the girl, Stephanie decided to put the world of medicine behind her.
The reappearance of the presumed dead Megan (Bridget Regan) left Owen (Kevin McKidd) weeping tears of joy.
But it will surely complicate the romance of Meredith (Ellen Pompeo) and Riggs (Martin Henderson).
Catch up with the staffs tangled lives before the show returns on ABC on Thursday.
Photo

TOKYO STORY (1972 in the United States) on Filmstruck.
The director Yasujiro Ozu meditates on family and longevity in this drama.
An older couple (Chishu Ryu and Chiyeko Higashiyama) living in the Japanese port of Onomichi make their first trip to Tokyo to visit their two married children, who offer a cold welcome.
On the way home from their short adventure, the mother falls ill and dies shortly after, leaving her husband in a life of tranquil loneliness.
Tokyo Story really deals with three generations passing through life, but mostly with the generation that is passing out of it, Roger Greenspun wrote in The New York Times.
He added that it understands that a calm reticence may be the true heroism of ordinary old age.
Mr. Weinstein, who is a longtime supporter of the AIDS organization and was a chairman of the 2015 event, said that he had done nothing wrong and that everyone benefited from the arrangement, which raised $309,669 for amfAR.
I honestly thought we were doing something fantastic for both sides, he said in an interview.
We get money, they get money, and its all our money.
Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher, a law firm hired by the amfAR board, reviewed the $600,000 transaction and determined that it was legitimate and lawful.
But a lawyer who first investigated the way the arrangement was handled concluded that it put the charitys financial integrity at risk, according to several people who reviewed his confidential report, which was commissioned by amfAR.
And in a June 2015 email to the charitys chief financial officer, its chief executive, Kevin Frost, expressed concern: Nothing about this deal feels right to me, and I believe we have not done due diligence to understand exactly what this money is being directed to or why amfAR is being used to facilitate these transfers.
In April of this year, four members of the 19-person board complained to the attorney generals office.
They said that Kenneth Cole, the fashion designer and board chairman, had signed off on the $600,000 transfer despite the clear objections of the executive management team, said their spokesman, Steven Goldberg.
They say board members were never informed that the auction proceeds would help cover the Finding Neverland investors costs.
Mr. Cole said that he welcomed an arrangement that would bring in money for the AIDS cause and that executive staff had signed off on it.
He said that he did not recall Mr. Weinstein telling him it would serve a business deal with the American Repertory Theatre, but that he was satisfied knowing the $600,000 was going to a credible nonprofit.
This wasnt just a man on the street asking  it was someone who has raised a lot of money for us, Mr. Cole said in an interview.
One tends to address requests based on whom theyre coming from.
Photo

It is not uncommon for commercial shows, before they hit Broadway, to go through an incubation period at a nonprofit theater, with infusions of financial support from investors.
Under so-called enhancement agreements, the theaters are able to mount larger productions than their budgets normally allow, while producers and investors get feedback and a chance to polish their shows before going to New York.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What was unusual about the agreement that Mr. Weinsteins theatrical production company, Weinstein Live Entertainment, struck in 2014 with the repertory theater  located in Cambridge, Mass., and affiliated with Harvard University  is that the shows 24 investors would be reimbursed if they brought in third-party charitable contributions.
In the end, $1.95 million in contributions were made to the theater as contemplated by the agreement, according to a July 2015 email from a lawyer for the theater to Mr. Weinsteins lawyer.
In addition to the money that came from the amfAR auction, Mr. Weinstein helped arrange for a $200,000 donation from a family foundation that fights poverty in South Africa, a $600,000 donation from the Louis Vuitton fashion house and hundreds of thousands of dollars more from online charitable auctions.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Lloyd Mayer, a professor of nonprofit law at the University of Notre Dame, said the agreement appeared to allow charitable contributions to serve the private benefit of Mr. Weinstein and the other commercial investors.
Jason Lilien, Mr. Weinsteins lawyer, said it did not matter if the other Finding Neverland investors incidentally benefited from the charitable contributions because the primary purpose was to put on a production for the publics benefit.
The theater declined to comment.
Mr. Lilien said Mr. Weinstein told Mr. Cole that the money raised through the auction would serve a Finding Neverland business agreement.
Orin Snyder, a lawyer with Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher, said in a statement that during our inquiry, Harvey Weinstein disclosed and we confirmed that the contribution was part of his companys Finding Neverland agreement with A.R.T., referring to the theater.
The auction catalog for the amfAR fund-raising gala disclosed that some of the money raised from the sitting with the fashion photographer would go to the theater, but did not note that for the Hollywood experience package arranged by Mr. Weinstein.
Tom Ajamie, the first lawyer hired by the charity to review the $600,000 transaction, concluded that failure to disclose was fraud on the bidders by amfAR, according to people who reviewed the report.
Mr. Weinsteins attorneys said it was a clerical mistake by amfAR.
Mr. Weinstein said that when arranging the charitable contributions that flowed to the theater he told some donors that the funds were to support the Finding Neverland production.
But, he said, it wasnt his responsibility to further disclose that the money would be used to reimburse him and the other investors or otherwise cover their business obligations.
If people wanted to learn more, he said, they could have done internet research.
Today, if you want to know something, its easy, he said.
Google A.R.T., whatever.
You dont want to make a donation to that, dont.
Whatever.
These people arent forced to write a check to A.R.T.
They can Google it, they can call it, they can speak to it, people will answer them.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher concluded its investigation, Mr. Weinstein asked amfAR board members and executive staff to sign pledges that there was no evidence of wrongdoing and that they would not probe further.
In exchange, he said that he will not at any time in the future engage in wrongful conduct involving amfAR.
Explaining why he had sought the non-disclosures, Mr. Weinstein expressed annoyance, saying that he had been dragged into an internal power struggle on amfARs board.
Four members  Vincent Roberti, Mervyn Silverman, Arlen Andelson and Jonathan Canno  refused to sign the document.
The next month, they went to the attorney general.
Since then, two other board members have resigned over the handling of the transaction, according to several people familiar with the resignations.
Mr. Weinstein has helped raise millions of dollars for amfAR over the years at its annual benefit at Cannes, which draws celebrities and is one of the most glamorous charitable events in the world.
In 2016, he also helped arrange a fund-raiser for the organization in New York.
This year, he pledged a $1 million in donations to the charity.
Mr. Weinstein said he paid $600,000 of that commitment this year to try to smooth over the conflict.
I went to them.
I said, Im paying you $600,000  shut up, youre hurting the goddamn charity, he said.
And for any theatergoer who participates in this movable junk-food buffet, KPOP is likely to come across as entertaining and enervating, in fairly equal measures.
Video

Conceived by the Woodshed Collective and the playwright Jason Kim, with direction by Teddy Bergman and songs by Helen Park and Max Vernon, KPOP offers a guided, room-by-room tour of a Korean hit factory that is hoping, finally, to capture a market that has long eluded it: the United States.
To achieve this goal, JTM Entertainment  which is run by a Mr.
Moon (James Saito) and his wife, Ruby (Vanessa Kai)  has enlisted the services of the aforementioned Jerry Kim, a Korean-American who heads the explicitly named Crossover agency.
Jerry claims that his company has been responsible for the stateside success of the likes of Shakira, Zara, Ikea, Hugh Jackman and Le Pain Quotidien.
We, the audience, are asked to be his focus group, gathered to offer suggestions on how to make JTMs flavor of pop stars more palatable to Americans.
Theatergoers are divided into different teams (according to the color of wrist bands issued before the show begins) and ushered through a series of meticulously imagined rehearsal spaces, recording studios, cosmetic analysis rooms and a theater-cum-bar, where we are allowed to observe the finished product.
That would be a newly reorganized boy band (called F8, and pronounced fate) and a girl band (Special K).
There is also the labels reigning solo artist, MwE (a divinely petulant Ashley Park, who wears Tricia Barsamians haute girl-goddess costumes as if they were sweatsuits).
Mr. Kim clearly had a swell time devising names.
Photo

Among those on hand to knead the would-be stars into shape are a vocal coach (Amanda Morton), a plastic surgeon (David Shih) and an American choreographer (Ebony Williams).
Though there are references throughout to the unforgiving Korean ethic of perfectionism, what the young performers endure in the name of their craft doesnt seem all that different from what we are told Simon Cowells protgs are put through.
Of course, the frictions within prefab groups like the Spice Girls and One Direction probably didnt include the mini-culture wars that threaten to tear F8 asunder.
The groups flashiest new recruit, Epic (a spot-on Jason Tam, as smooth as Jell-O pudding), is too Anglophone for the tastes of his bandmates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The resulting confrontations lead to Epics main antagonist, Oracle (Jinwoo Jung), drawing a line down the middle of a rehearsal room and asking the audience to choose a side.
Uh-oh!
I believe we have a combustible political metaphor on our hands here, which  given the current international situation  is a little queasy-making, as are Jerrys jokey references to launching rockets into the American market.
Photo

In a less topical vein, we have the agonies of the lovely MwE, who at 26 is approaching her sell-by date and who receives us in a suspended cocoon chair in her special downtime room.
(Gabriel Hainer Evansohns sets are marvels of manicured kitsch.)
As MwE shifts jerkily between autopilot charm and rebellion against Ruby, her manager (and creator), you may feel youve stumbled into an enjoyably hokey remake of Valley of the Dolls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Like the young stars it portrays, KPOP sometimes works too hard to put itself over.
It is least interesting at its most didactic.
And it suffers from its own conflicted intentions.
The show is best when parody blurs into the already surreal dimensions of whats being parodied.
Thats true of the eye-popping visuals throughout (right down to the ads on the walls).
And Ms.
Parks and Mr. Vernons pastiche fusion musical numbers, choreographed with slashing wit by Jennifer Weber, are as synthetically sweet and perversely addictive as the real thing.
(Think of them as ear Skittles.)
Many of the drinking-age audience members (there is a real bar, dont forget) with whom I saw KPOP reacted to the climactic performance of these numbers as if they were giddy teenagers at a bona fide concert.
But what about all those hard truths we learned along the way, about the unsavory ingredients that go into such crowd-courting performances?
By that time, all disparate messages appeared to have melded into one high-volume command.
Which would be, if I may borrow an oft-recycled mainstream song title (and thats appropriate, I think): Shut up and dance.
Odissi is reminiscent of the images of female dancers that are carved into the friezes of Hindu temples.
The upper half of the body articulates precise movements that allow for interpretation, while the lower half maintains any of five statuelike stances.
The costumes consist of a headdress, called a tahia; lots of silver jewelry; dozens of tiny bells on each foot; and vibrant silk or cotton dresses with elaborate thread work.
Ms. Devi was a consummate actress, conveying emotions through every part of her body, be it the flexing of a toe or the swooping of an arm.
Even her face seemed to dance; her lips, brows and gaze all helped tell the story.
To miss one raising of her eyebrow or the precise relationship of her hip to the angle of her elbow is to miss the harmony of images she has taken such care to construct, Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times in a review of a performance at Carnegie Recital Hall in December 1975.
Photo

Though only 4 feet 11 inches tall, Ms. Devi could command the stage, taking several different roles in a single tale told through movement and dramatic mime dialogue.
Her performances often ran three or four hours.
In her United States debut, in 1968 at Jacobs Pillow, the annual summer dance festival in Becket, Mass., she danced multiple roles in enacting the legend of Ahalya, a story of passion, revenge and redemption revolving around the chaste and beautiful wife of a Hindu sage.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She was born Rita Mukherjee on Dec. 6, 1924, in Assam, a state in northeastern India.
The arts were central to her family life.
Her mother, Aruna, taught music and organized stage performances in their town.
A relative, the poet Rabindranath Tagore, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1913.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The family later moved to Baroda, a state in western India in a region now known as Gujarat.
Ms. Devis father, Satyabrata Mukherjee, was a government official there.
Over her fathers objections, Ms. Devi began studying classical dance after graduating from Bombay University.
She started with the dance style known as Manipuri, which is derived in part from the martial arts and is named after the region in northeast India in which it originated.
Her parents, eager to marry her off, moved her to Calcutta to find a groom, and in 1950 she married Indra Chatterji.
On their honeymoon in Sri Lanka she learned of his dislike for dance when he refused to accompany her to a performance.
Photo

The moment we got married, he put his foot down, she said in an interview for the International Odissi Festival in 2011.
He said: No dance.
Nothing.
You have to become a housewife.
When her husband got a job in Madras, India, in 1953, she said, she did not go with him, deciding instead to travel throughout India to learn more forms of the countrys classical dance.
They divorced in 1968.
The couple had one son, Rahul, who survives her.
As her performing career blossomed, a mentor advised her to adopt a stage name before embarking on an international tour.
Her first name, Rita, sounded too European, he told her, so she added an h and made it Ritha.
Devi was her grandmothers maiden name.
It was while she was on tour that a New York University faculty member in the audience approached Ms. Devi and asked her to teach.
She had been taking her young son on tours with her and had had little money with which to raise him.
A steady job was appealing, and she agreed.
She remained in New York for 35 years, teaching, continuing to perform and starting a dance academy.
Later in life, Ms. Devi attributed her stamina in dancing for hours at a time to the enduring struggle she faced as a young woman in pursuing her love of dance against the wishes of the men in her life.
Younger generations of dancers, she said, often seemed to lack that passion.
Unless you have fought for something, you have sacrificed for something, you have totally surrendered for something, you cant acquire it, she said.
You have to have dance as your main passion in your life.
A second musical, Apple Pie, with music by Nicholas Meyers, received much the same treatment when Papp directed it at the Public in 1976.
Feminists were thrilled to see their movements messages on prominent display, but critics were unwelcoming.
Nicholas Meyerss music is Kurt Weill acrid without being Kurt Weill melodic, Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times.
And he concluded with this assessment of Ms. Lambs abilities as a dramatist: I am told that Miss Lamb is a feminist playwright.
I am willing to believe she is a feminist.
Such reviews  most of the critics being male, some of them throwing dismissive remarks about feminism into their reviews  served only as more evidence to support the new feminisms grievances.
Photo

Feminism was then the cause du jour, and Papp, as usual, had his ear to the zeitgeist, Anselma DellOlio, a film critic and director who worked with Ms. Lamb in those early days, said by email.
But Myrnas plays were just too out-there for most men.
Myrna Lila Lamb was born on Aug. 3, 1930, in Newark.
Her father, Melvin, worked a number of jobs to try to make ends meet at the start of the Depression, as did her mother, the former Minna Feldman.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Lamb began working during World War II while still in high school, including, Ms. Hachtman said, in a job at an insurance company that had her supervising adults.
Her writing while in school had caught the attention of her teachers, but her father resisted the idea of college.
Instead, in 1948, Ms. Lamb married Marvin Epstein, whom she had met at a family wedding.
Ms. Lamb had been writing intermittently while raising two children  her archive, Ms. Hachtman said, includes typed manuscripts, notebooks, even notes scrawled on paper plates  but her entry into the New York theater scene can be credited largely to an incendiary episode of The David Susskind Show and an answering service that bailed on its responsibilities.
In 1968 Susskind invited four leaders of second-wave feminism in New York onto his syndicated television talk show: Ms. DellOlio; Rosalyn Baxandall, the feminist historian; Kate Millett, who would soon publish the landmark book Sexual Politics (and who died in September); and Jacqui Ceballos, who was active in the National Organization for Women.
Ms. DellOlio used the occasion to mention that she intended to start a feminist theater, and Ms. Ceballos repeatedly gave the phone number of the New York NOW office, urging women interested in the principles of feminism to reach out.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We got thousands of calls, and the answering service threw us out, Ms. Ceballos said in a telephone interview.
So I answered all those calls, and one of them was Myrna.
Ms. Ceballos invited her to send in some of her writing, and soon Ms. Lamb was the go-to playwright for Ms. DellOlios New Feminist Theater.
The group made its first big splash in 1969, with an evening of Ms. Lambs short works.
One, But What Have You Done for Me Lately?, was about a man who experiences societys double standard firsthand when he wakes up from a medical procedure and a female doctor tells him he has been implanted with a uterus and is pregnant.
He is not happy.
It is natural for a woman to create life, the man complains.
It is not natural for me.
The doctor replies: The dogma of beneficial motherhood has been handed down by men.
If a woman spews out children, she will be sufficiently exhausted by the process never to attempt art, music, literature or politics.
She knows that this is all that is expected of her.
Ms. Lambs work caught the attention of Papp, who had had a huge success with Hair in 1967, and if her stridency did not necessarily lend itself to that sort of musical, it did inflame passions.
Mod Donna, which was about a mnage  quatre and skewered traditional views of marriage, certainly had people taking sides.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I was at opening night with my then-boyfriend, Ms. DellOlio recalled, a deceptively mild-mannered man who rose out of his chair at the curtain and began to shout that feminism was a sham and that he would tell the awful truth about what wretched liars, manipulators, fakes and so on we in the movement were.
I had never seen him in such a rage.
Many men in the audience around us were nodding approval at his outburst.
In addition to Apple Pie, about a Jewish woman who flees Hitlers Germany but finds that life in the United States has its oppressiveness, too, Ms. Lambs works included Crab Quadrille, staged by the Interart Theater in Manhattan in 1976, and Olympic Park, mounted by the same group in 1978.
In a 1976 interview with The Times, Ms. Lamb said the critical response to her two productions at the Public stung.
They dont say, I dont agree with what youve done or how youve done it,  she said.
They say, You cant write.
The feminist playwright label was also beginning to bother her.
Though the feminist movement nurtured all of us, I am disillusioned with it, she said in the same interview.
What I found after I was savagely attacked by critics for Apple Pie was that the women were no different from the men  they are afraid to affiliate with you if you are not an establishment success.
Ms. Lambs husband died in 1985.
In addition to Ms. Hachtman, she is survived by another daughter, Ilsebet Gianna, and two grandchildren.
Ms. Lamb lived her final years with the Hachtman family in Point Pleasant Beach.
Ms. Hachtman said that Joe Papp had given her mother the 40-foot banner for Mod Donna that had hung out front at the Public.
The banner, Ms. Hachtman said, was washed away along with many other memories when Hurricane Sandy flooded their home in 2012.
Her writing could be practical, as it was in those manuals, or lyrical, as in her book Martha Graham: The Evolution of Her Dance Theory and Training, a collection of interviews published in 1991 and revised in 2002.
In the introduction, she noted that as a child Graham was influenced by stories told to her by her nurse and her familys Japanese gardeners.
Graham knew about witches, wee folk and the poetic mystery of things, Ms. Horosko wrote.
Some called Martha a sorceress, in the Irish sense of having insight, intuition and the ability to command people to do her bidding.
Others said she was a witch.
She was witty and scholarly, had an extremely flexible body, was mentally disciplined, and was small but powerful, approachable to the earnest but distant to the novice, quiet yet eloquent, simple yet complex.
Marian Anna Horosko was born in Cleveland on Aug. 4, 1925, to Louis Horosko, an upholsterer, and the former Marian Gromand.
Photo

She was a dancer from a young age, making her debut at 12 with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo.
She studied at the Juilliard School and the School of American Ballet.
Before joining the Metropolitan Operas ballet corps, Ms. Horosko appeared on Broadway in the ensemble of Oklahoma!
and in two musical revues.
She also appeared as a dancer in two 1951 movies: Royal Wedding, which starred Fred Astaire and Jane Powell, and An American in Paris, with Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She was a soloist with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, but after moving to City Ballet she filled mostly character roles, Dr. Kupersmith said.
Marian Horosko plays a quarrelsome flirt like a genuine comedian, John Martin wrote in The New York Times in January 1957, reviewing a performance of Todd Bolenders Souvenirs at City Center.
After her performing career ended in the early 1960s, she stayed connected to the dancing world through her writing, much of it for Dance Magazine.
She was education editor there for many years, offering advice for dancers on how to care for their hair and their toe shoes as well as writing longer articles, including a series on Teachers in the Russian Tradition.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Horosko was also film curator of the Lincoln Center Dance Collection and produced and consulted on dance programs for television and radio.
In the late 1960s she traveled to Cuba, where she produced a documentary with National Educational Television on the ballerina Alicia Alonso.
Ms. Horosko knew from personal experience the challenges dancers face both during their performing careers and after, and she made efforts to address them.
In the 1980s she was an organizer of a group called Danse Coalition, formed in response to the problem of disappearing studio space in Manhattan; many studios were shuttering because of high rents.
Also in the 1980s, she was among the founders of the Performing Arts Center for Health in New York, a clinic devoted to the physical and mental health needs of dancers and former dancers.
We want to be able to help dancers to get help, and get it right away, from doctors who wont just tell them to stay off their feet,  she said in a 1982 interview with The Times.
Another driving force in that nonprofit venture was Dr. Kupersmith, whom Ms. Horosko had known when they were both City Ballet dancers, and who became a psychiatrist after her performing career.
Dr. Kupersmith said that after she and Ms. Horosko reconnected, they would often talk about dancers needs and the obstacles facing them.
She would always bring a tape recorder wherever she went, and she would tape our conversations, Dr. Kupersmith recalled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 1987 those tapes formed the basis of a book by the two of them, The Dancers Survival Manual: Everything You Need to Know About Being a Dancer  Except How to Dance.
A second edition was published in 2009 with a new subtitle, Everything You Need to Know From the First Class to Career Change.
Ms. Horoskos other books included May ODonnell: Modern Dance Pioneer (2005).
Marian Horosko was compellingly sensible and humane in her writing on dance, glamorous yet pragmatic, with an encyclopedic passion for the art, Jennifer Dunning, a former dance critic for The Times, wrote in an email.
To spend even a brief time in her company was to be charmed and fascinated by the way her mind worked and the way, after a ballet debut at 12, she never stopped exploring dance.
Ms. Dunning wrote the foreword to the May ODonnell book.
Ms. Horosko leaves no immediate survivors.
Her interest in the postcareer health needs of dancers may have been understandable.
Dena Moss, her estate lawyer and longtime friend, said Ms. Horosko had had three knee replacements.
She used to say, If I dont set off the metal detectors when I board an airplane, I wont get on it,  Ms. Moss said.
This could be your chance to make Sputnik beep again.
It was on Oct. 4, 1957, just 60 years ago, that the Soviet Union launched the first Earth satellite, Sputnik.
It was little more than an aluminum beach ball with a radio transmitter that sent out a regular series of radio beeps, but it expanded the Cold War to outer space, shook up American technological smugness and probably helped John Kennedy get elected president in 1960.
On Wednesday, just ahead of the 60th anniversary of its launch, a replica of the famous satellite is going on sale at Bonhams in New York City as part of their Air and Space Sale.
Another item on the block is the harness, complete with camera, and an oxygen tank for the rhesus monkeys that preceded Americas Mercury astronauts into space.
The original Sputnik fell out of orbit and burned up three months after its launch.
But test models and engineering replicas, allegedly from the laboratory where the legendary Sergei Korolev built them, have surfaced in museums and collections in recent years  some more authentic than others, said Robert Pearlman, a journalist and space historian who runs the website Collectspace.
Advertisement

THAT DECISIVE MOMENT Rising Star: The Weeks 8 Best Classical Music Moments on YouTube

Image The tenor Ben Bliss as Tamino in a production of Mozarts The Magic Flute at Opera Philadelphias O17 festival.
Credit Steven Pisano

Our critics and reporters offer a glimpse of whats delighted them on YouTube.
Read the rest of our classical music coverage here .
at 2 minutes 30 seconds

Rising Star

The wonderful cast of Mozarts The Magic Flute at Opera Philadelphias O17 festival features the splendid lyric tenor Ben Bliss.
This rising artist is coming to the Metropolitan Opera next March as Ferrando in a new production of Mozarts Cos Fan Tutte.
Here, in an intimate recital in the crypt of the Church of the Intercession in Harlem, he sings an aria from yet a third Mozart opera, The Abduction from the Seraglio.
Belmonte, a young nobleman, is anticipating reuniting with his beloved, who has been the captive of a Turkish pasha.
Listen to Mr. Blisss delivery of the musics most fretful passage: He manages to convey emotional distress while singing with elegant lyricism.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

Read our review of Opera Philadelphias O17 festival.
AT 3 MINUTES 24 SECONDS

Setting Poetry Aflame

Matthew Aucoins opera  Crossing , which has its New York premiere next week at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, tells the complicated story of Walt Whitmans time as a volunteer nurse during the Civil War.
I spoke with Mr. Aucoin and he mentioned that, were it not for Crossing, he likely never would have set Whitmans words to music.
In general, he said, poetry lends itself to music only when it has something latent in it, like firewood that needs to be fully set on fire.
Whitmans poetry, in his view, is already so musical that it tends to drown out any composers voice.
How clever, then, that the final chorus in Crossing takes only small phrases from Leaves of Grass, instead quoting two sentences from a Wallace Stevens poem about Whitman: Nothing is final/No man shall see the end.
JOSHUA BARONE

at 24 minutes 15 seconds

Seductive, Swaying Contrast

Assemblage, a new album by Ensemble Dal Niente, brings a rewarding look at fresh pieces by the veteran composer and performer George Lewis.
Nurtured early on by the experimental approach of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians and a professor of music at Columbia since 2004, Mr. Lewis has long been interested in stylistic hybridity .
The work that gives the new album its title features a whispery, recurring rhythmic pulse, during a middle section otherwise packed with anxious-sounding lines.
Here you can see three of the Dal Niente players handing off the figure: a percussionist at the back of the ensemble; a harpist scraping strings vertically; a pianist reaching inside the instruments body.
The groove these players produce offers a seductive, swaying contrast to the airs of fraying unease coming from the other instrumentalists.
Assemblage opens and closes with some thrilling storm systems of high-complexity modernism.
But Mr. Lewiss quieter passages can be just as transporting.
SETH COLTER WALLS

Advertisement

AT 1 minute 8 seconds

Orchestral Iridescence

Under the authoritative baton of Karina Canellakis, one of the highlights of the recent BBC Proms in London was Missy Mazzolis spectrally swooning Sinfonia (for Orbiting Spheres).
With a title that references the Baroque and keening ornamentations that recall Lully and Rameau, the work generates an orchestral iridescence.
This video excerpt  in which wind players regularly transition from their main instruments to harmonicas  provides a short glimpse into the uncanny music.
(Audio for the entire piece is available to stream on the BBCs website).
In the wake of the recent success of her opera Breaking the Waves, Ms. Mazzoli has also found a persuasive symphonic voice.
WILLIAM ROBIN

AT 59 SECONDS

She Loves Me

As I prepared to sit down this week with the tenor Jos Carreras to interview him on the eve of his final New York recital, I took a video walk down memory lane  lingering on those halcyon days before his struggle with leukemia and his transformation into the Third Tenor.
I found lots of breathtaking reminders of just how easy he was on the ears (and eyes), particularly when he turned his natural-sounding voice to the lyric roles he was best suited to.
Listen to the smooth confidence with which he swells the phrase into Mama (She loves me).
MICHAEL COOPER

Read our interview with Jos Carreras.
AT 3 MINUTES 12 SECONDS

Suggesting Celesta

One of the three (yes, three!)
world premieres at Opera Philadelphias O17 festival is David Hertzbergs The Wake World, a fantastical tale presented in a spacious court at the Barnes Foundation.
Mr. Herzbergs spiky, sumptuous opera reminded me of his chamber piece Orgie-Cleste, which I heard performed in 2015 on a Young Concert Artists program.
In this score I hear echoes of Messaien, Schoenberg and Feldman, though the compositional voice is personal and quirky, at once mystical and wild.
At times, true to its title, it suggests strange, tinkling celesta sounds.
Catch the passage when the clarinetist, violinist and pianist seem to get swept up in their own spheres, but just calmly keep on.
ANTHONY TOMMASINI

AT 22 SECONDS

Bachs Marimba Suites

Watch out, Yo-Yo Ma  maybe they should be called Bachs Marimba Suites.
One of the joys of YouTube is the ability to see the creativity of orchestra musicians outside their day (night?)
Here Rob Knopper, a percussionist with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, performs Bach, as part of his web series helping musicians prepare for auditions.
(Little curves into minor key, like this moment, get dusky, even spooky on marimba.)
Now if I could only hear the hook of the Rolling Stones Under My Thumb played on the cello.
MICHAEL COOPER

AT 3 minutes 1 second

Tough Assignment

A highlight of the Metropolitan Operas sprawling Centennial Gala in 1983 was the soprano Anna Tomowa-Sintow, born Sept. 22, 1941, and too little appreciated today.
She had a tough assignment: Ernani!
Ernani, involami, from Verdis Ernani.
But she is poised throughout, with a low-key, rather dignified passion that emerges through scrupulous attention to the score and bright agility.
Here she opens up a little world of sensual desire as she describes the Eden shell inhabit once her beloved Ernani saves her, lingering ever so slightly on the swaying motion of the music.
ZACHARY WOOLFE
Photo

Johnny Sandlin, a record producer, engineer and session musician best known for his work with the Allman Brothers Band, died on Tuesday in Decatur, Ala.
He was 72.
His death was announced by Ridouts Brown-Service Funeral Home in Decatur.
No cause was specified, but Variety reported that Mr. Sandlin had cancer.
John Everett Sandlin was born in Decatur on April 16, 1945.
His association with the guitarist Duane Allman and his brother Gregg, who sang and played keyboards, began in 1967, when they worked together in the band the Hour Glass, which made two albums for Liberty Records.
Mr. Sandlin played drums in that band and also played guitar and bass on various artists records over the years.
The brothers later formed their own band and signed with the newly established Capricorn label, based in Macon, Ga. Mr. Sandlin joined the label as an engineer and producer around the same time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After working as an engineer on the Allman Brothers Bands hit albums At Fillmore East (1971) and Eat a Peach (1972), he produced Brothers and Sisters (1973), the groups first album entirely recorded after Duane Allman died in a motorcycle accident in 1971.
It reached No.
1 on the Billboard album chart.
He went on to produce a number of the bands later albums.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The brothers were not an easy band to work with, Mr. Sandlin told The Decatur Daily last year, when he was inducted into the Alabama Music Hall of Fame.
They were very dramatic.
He nonetheless continued to work over the years with individual members of the band, including Gregg Allman and the guitarist Dickey Betts.
Photo

The Bolshoi Theater is going ahead with a ballet based on the life of legendary dancer Rudolf Nureyev this December, its general director said on Friday.
The ballet, originally scheduled to premiere in July, was postponed three days before its opening, while its director, Kirill S. Serebrennikov, was charged with embezzling government funds and placed under house arrest.
Nureyev, which depicts the world-famous dancers life up until his death in 1993 from AIDS-related illnesses, will now play at the Bolshoi December 9 and 10.
In July, the Bolshois general director, Vladimir G. Urin, insisted that the ballet was postponed for artistic reasons, due to an under-rehearsed cast.
Many in Moscows cultural circles balked, contending that the ballets depiction of an openly gay man fleeing the Soviet Union had been deemed too controversial for the countrys most prominent stage.
There was also an outpouring of support for Mr. Serebrennikov, one of Russias most prominent and innovative directors, whose charges were widely seen as part of a suppressive effort against dissenting voices.
Mr. Urin confirmed that Mr. Serebrennikov, who remains under house arrest, gave permission for the production to be mounted in his absence, according to a report by the Russian state news agency, Tass, which interviewed Mr. Urin.
The ballets choreographer, Yuri Possokhov, will oversee final rehearsals and, with court approval, may confer with Mr. Serebrennikov on artistic details.
Photo

The Popcast is hosted by Jon Caramanica, a pop music critic for The New York Times.
It covers the latest in pop music criticism, trends and news.
For most of the 2010s, country music has been undergoing a gender crisis in plain sight: most of the prominent male singers were bros, with unimaginative perspectives on the dynamic between men and women, and female singers were shunted to the margins.
Nashvilles compromise solution?
Gentler men.
Make that: gentlemen.
Singers like Thomas Rhett, Brett Young, Michael Ray, Brett Eldredge, Chris Lane and more have been softening and sweetening country musics bruising masculinity into something a little more polished, in which women are placed on a pedestal, and men place their emotional needs second.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On this weeks Popcast, Mr. Caramanica discusses how this change does and doesnt help the genres gender imbalance with Natalie Weiner, a staff writer at Bleacher Report, freelance music writer and former associate editor at Billboard.
Email your questions, thoughts and ideas about whats happening in pop music to popcast@nytimes.com.
At sunup he moved to the backyard to photograph the volcanic explosion.
New Dawn, one of Mr. Turners phantasmagorical pictures, portrays lava in shades of yellow, orange and red, spraying in a fluid arc as if an unseen hand were directing it leftward over the volcano.
By underexposing his shots, he made the colors become more saturated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was like being in the center of a science fiction movie, he said on his website.
Donald Peter Turner was born in Albany on May 30, 1934.
His father, Donald, was the leader of a 23-piece touring band that was based for a while in Montreal.
His mother, the former Ruth Murray, was a homemaker.
Fascinated by photography from a young age, he was developing color pictures by age 14.
I love black and white photography, but somehow I got seduced by color, he told Photo District News in 2000.
I remember going to the art supply store as a kid and looking at watercolor paint boxes and thinking, These are beautiful.
After graduating from the Rochester Institute of Technology, where Mr. Uelsmann was among his classmates, Mr. Turner was drafted into the Army.
He served primarily at a combat photographic center in Astoria, Queens, where he ran the photo lab and experimented with a new type of color printing.
He was occasionally sent by the Army on assignments, like photographing rockets in Florida; he also found subjects to photograph in Manhattan on weekends.
After his discharge, he joined the Freelance Photographers Guild and went on a monthslong assignment for the Airstream trailer company, following a caravan of 43 vehicles traveling from South Africa to Egypt.
The sojourn whetted his appetite for more work in Africa and gave him a vivid portfolio that helped him secure assignments from Esquire, Look, Sports Illustrated and Holiday magazines, as well as from advertisers and Hollywood films  he was on set for Cleopatra (1963) and The Night of the Iguana (1964).
Advertisement

ARTS 10 Things to Do Now in NYC Its a big city, with plenty to do, see, hear and watch.
Heres a sampling of cultural highlights this weekend and over the week ahead.
Image Kim Hunter and David Niven in Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger's A Matter of Life and Death (1946).
Credit Film Forum

Toasting Art Houses With a Heavenly Delight

Art House Theater Day at Film Forum and IFC Center

The Arthouse Convergence, an organization that promotes independent movie theaters, has chosen Sunday as the second annual Art House Theater Day  a day in which cinemas across the United States and Canada will offer special programming in a show of celebration.
The New York City venues are IFC Center and Film Forum.
Film Forum is jumping the gun by one day, but it will bring in Thelma Schoonmaker, Martin Scorseses longtime editor and the widow of the director Michael Powell, to introduce A Matter of Life and Death (1946) on Saturday at 4:45 p.m.
In Mr. Powell and Emeric Pressburgers great fantasy, an R.A.F.
bomber pilot (David Niven) cheats death and then, having fallen in love with an American radio operator, must make the case for a reprieve from the heavens.
On Sunday, IFC Center will screen the animated Revolting Rhymes (based on the Roald Dahl book); Frederick Wisemans landmark documentary Titicut Follies; and a coming Russian film, The Road Movie, culled from dashcam footage.
BEN KENIGSBERG



Image Andrew Cyrille (here at the New School in 2016) is coming to Dizzys Club Coca-Cola.
Credit Laurel Golio for The New York Times

JAZZ

Mercurial Heft Meets Lucid Horn

Andrew Cyrille and Bill McHenry at Dizzys Club Coca-Cola

Mr. Cyrille, 77, a drummer, can exert a rumbling power without striking the drums especially hard.
Hes an avant-gardist known for his work with free improvisers like Cecil Taylor and Oliver Lake, but his Haitian parentage has a way of shining through in his syncopations.
He and Mr. McHenry, 45, a tenor saxophonist, released a powerful album last year, Proximity.
It found Mr. McHenrys lucid and tapered sound in fruitful partnership with the mercurial heft of Mr. Cyrille.
They perform at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. on Tuesday as part of the Coca-Cola Generations in Jazz Festival.
GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO

Find more jazz shows for the coming week.
Image From left, Sarah Nicole Deaver, Colin Ryan and Cynthia Mace in The King of Spains Daughter, one of the Teresa Deevy plays in The Suitcase Under the Bed.
Credit Richard Termine

THEATER

Brief Sojourns to the Emerald Isle

The Suitcase Under the Bed at the Beckett Theater

Now that the Mint has staged them, these four short plays by the Irish writer Teresa Deevy (18941963) likely wont be going back into the luggage in which they were discovered.
In The New York Times, Andy Webster praised Jonathan Banks direction, writing , He clearly adores Deevy, and ultimately so will the audience.
(The show closes Sept.
ALEXIS SOLOSKI

Read the full review.
Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages, and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Image Sondra Radvanovsky as the title character in Norma at the Metropolitan Opera.
Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times

Advertisement

CLASSICAL MUSIC

High Notes of a Druid Priestess

Norma at the Metropolitan Opera

A new season dawns at the grander end of Lincoln Center with a David McVicar production of Bellinis bel canto classic, at 6:30 p.m. Monday and running through Dec. 16.
Sondra Radvanovsky is in the title role for only five performances, until Oct. 11, opposite Joyce DiDonatos Adalgisa, Joseph Callejas Pollione and Matthew Roses Oroveso.
Carlo Rizzi conducts this first cast; a second run follows in December, with Angela Meade and Jamie Barton headlining.
DAVID ALLEN

See a list of mini-reviews for more current productions.
Image Soprano Jennifer Zetlan in Rhoda and the Fossil Hunt at the American Museum of Natural History.
Credit Shervin Lainez for on Site Opera

FOR CHILDREN

Not Just Apatosaurus and Allosaurus, but Arias, Too

Rhoda and the Fossil Hunt at the American Museum of Natural History

Tyrannosaurus rex and opera are rarely mentioned in the same phrase, much less found under the same roof.
But all that will change on Saturday, when On Site Opera presents this world premiere , with music by John Musto and a libretto by Eric Einhorn .
Playing through Oct. 15 and free with museum admission (though reservations are required), this family opera captures the real adventures of the 8-year-old Rhoda Knight Kalt (the soprano Jennifer Zetlan), whose grandfather Charles R. Knight (1874-1953) painted and sculpted the museums fossils as living animals.
Henry Fairfield Osborn (the tenor Patrick Cook), at the time the museums president, commissioned the work from Knight (the baritone Robert Orth), whose curious granddaughter often accompanied him.
Children who join Rhoda on a search for missing fossils  including Deinocheirus and T. rex  will be happy to hear that the opera isnt Cretaceous in length: a mere 20 minutes.
LAUREL GRAEBER

Find more events for children and families.
Image Kevin Boateng and Joyce Edwards in Beth Gill's "Brand New Sidewalk" in May at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.
Credit Gene Pittman, Courtesy Walker Art Center

DANCE

Doors of Perception, and of Transformation

Beth Gill at Abrons Arts Center

Ms. Gill, a much-admired, Bessie Award-winning New York choreographer, creates work that meticulously examines ideas around perception: How do we see what we see?
For her latest, Brand New Sidewalk (performed at 8 p.m. Thursday through Sept. 30 and at 2 p.m. on Oct. 1), she collaborates with the composer Jon Moniaci, the lighting designer Thomas Dunn and the costume designer Baille Younkman to create a triptych that explores abstraction alongside more emotional themes of alienation, erasure and transformation.
GIA KOURLAS

See whats happening around the citys dance scene.
Image Jim Gaffigan at the Theater at Madison Square Garden in 2014.
See listing below.
Credit Brad Barket/Invision, via Associated Press

COMEDY

Laughter Served Hot

Jim Gaffigan at the Beacon Theater

It seems impossible that Jim Gaffigan will ever run out of foods to rhapsodize about.
A comic perhaps best known for his dissertations on dessert and unmitigated meditations on the Hot Pocket, Mr. Gaffigan loves food so much that he memorialized it in his 2014 book, Food: A Love Story.
Now Mr. Gaffigan is in the midst of his extensive Noble Ape Tour, which is taking him all over the country and eventually abroad, and brings him to the Beacon at 7:30 on Thursday and Saturday and at 7:30 and 10 p.m. on Sept. 29.
KASIA PILAT

See who else is making New Yorkers laugh this week.
Image Leon Isaac Kennedy in Jamaa Fanakas Penitentiary (1979).
See listing below.
Credit Wizard Video/Photofest

FILM SERIES

A Jab and a Left Hook for Liberation

Jamaa Fanaka: L.A. Rebel at BAM Rose Cinemas

Mr. Fanaka, the star of this program from Friday to Wednesday, was part of the L.A.
Rebellion: directors, like Charles Burnett and Billy Woodberry, who attended U.C.L.A.
and shot in Los Angeless underrepresented neighborhoods.
But Mr. Fanaka (1942-2012) eschewed the movements poetic realism in favor of genre work.
The scholar Allyson Nadia Field credited his 1979 film Penitentiary (Friday and Tuesday) as the transition moment between blaxploitation and independent black filmmaking.
Leon Isaac Kennedy plays a convict who has a chance at parole in a boxing tournament sanctioned by a corrupt lieutenant.
The violence and critique are protracted and brutal.
The films sequels also screen.
BEN KENIGSBERG

Want more?
See a guide to film series and screenings in New York.
Image Ball Wall Clock, by George Nelson Associates, at the Grey Art Gallery.
See listing below.
Credit Jake Naughton for The New York Times

ART & MUSEUMS

Aesthetes on a Modernist Mission

Partners in Design: Alfred H. Barr Jr. and Philip Johnson at the Grey Art Gallery

Five minutes on StreetEasy, browsing through seven-figure contemporary condos whose furniture was designed a century ago, should offer all the proof necessary that Modernism will never die.
This show,through Dec. 9,reveals how young, Bauhaus-mad men of MoMA  Barr, the museums first director, and Johnson, its first architecture curator  imported European design to America, and showcased it not only in the museum but also in their own apartments.
If youre into Modernist revivals, youll do better here than at the ghastly new restaurant in Johnsons old Four Seasons.
JASON FARAGO

Read the full review.
See a selection of mini-reviews of current exhibitions.
Image Mac DeMarco (here performing near Zurich in August) comes to Radio City.
Credit Ennio Leanza/European Pressphoto Agency

POP & ROCK

A Winning Way With Malaise

Mac DeMarco at Radio City Music Hall

The insouciant West Canadian singer-songwriter Mac DeMarco performs with a youthful verve, even though many of his best songs  including several on his excellent third album, This Old Dog, released in May  have to do with feeling over the hill.
(In fact, he is 27.)
This intriguing tonal contrast extends to Mr. DeMarcos live shows, like the one at 8 p.m. on Friday, where he can often be found crooning about mid-20s malaise with a winning smirk.
SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON

More pop and rock concerts.
And Theres More

What to cook this weekend and what to read this week .
In the absence of compelling figures at the top, the season wound up focusing heavily on Jorge Salcedo, the cartels head of security, as he works with the D.E.A.
to take down Cali and liberate himself and his family from its bloody sphere of influence.
Again, the focus is more on action than on psychology  Solcedos motives are noble and not mysterious  but the interplay between Solcedo, Miguel, and Miguels vicious son David (played deliciously by Arturo Castro, of Broad City) keeps the tension high.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the first episode, Solcedo is able to sniff out the impostor at an important cartel gathering, and that sets the stage for his own adventures in subterfuge.
Not only does he have to slip the tight surveillance net that he had a hand in threading, he constantly has to prove his loyalty in the company of murderous paranoiacs.
D.E.A.
sting operations are higher stakes for him especially, because the very fact that Miguel and company can be found makes it clear that a traitor is in their midst.
And when he shuts down radio contact between his security man and Miguels hide out, he also gambles away the life of a subordinate whos blamed for not doing his job.
As narrator and leading man, Pascals Pea was an advance on Boyd Holbrooks Steve Murphy, partly because of his charisma and partly because he doesnt have to play the idealistic naf drawn into the muck.
Pea was already jaded from the moment he was introduced in Season 1 as a guy whos willing to leap over procedural hurdles to get the job done.
The third season succeeds at deepening Pea as he continues to play cartel whack-a-mole, despite the certainty that another organization will pop up in its place.
His promotion post-Escobar brings him back to Colombia with increased authority and credibility, but such a diminished will that he bristles in shame any time his Escobar triumph is hailed.
He grimly commits himself to defying the United States ambassador and bringing the Cali Cartel to justice, no matter the diplomatic headaches he might cause.
The third season ends with the promise of a fourth, set in Mexico.
So now Narcos cannot be described as either a show about Escobar or a show about the Colombian drug trade.
(That Gabriel Garca Mrquez quote that opened the series is now a distant blur in the rearview mirror.)
But it seems reasonable to expect that Narcos will continue to get the broad strokes right, even if it continues to have trouble creating memorable characters.
The great shows can do both, but a limited overview of drug cartels has value, if only to reveal the beast tentacle by tentacle.
With the format so firmly locked into place, the ceiling and the floor for a fourth season are about an inch apart.
Parting Shots

 The third season ends more effectively than it begins.
The attack on the North Valley cartel that opens the final episode has more stylistic brio that Narcos has attempted in the past, given its devotion to a humble docudrama format.
The sight of Pacho strutting through the chaos in slow-motion recalls the cinema-of-cool feeling of a Scarface or Goodfellas knockoff, but in the past, it was unusual for Narcos to pause for a tense, well-executed set-piece.
Those brief scenes of Pallomari in court are a fine showcase for Javier Cmaras expressive performance style.
For more of Cmaras work, dont miss his turn as a male nurse who pursues an unsavory infatuation in Pedro Almodvars Talk to Her or, more recently, his memorable run as the Popes personal secretary in The Young Pope.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Overall, however, Cmara is underused, as are recognizable faces like Edward James Olmos and Kerry Bish, whos been terrific on Halt and Catch Fire for four seasons.
Olmos only shows up a couple of times as Peas father, gently attempting to steer his son in the right direction.
Bish has little to do as the wife of an informant, though she does get one lively scene in custody, in which she blasts Pea for his false heroics.
In a sad postscript to the current season, a location scout for Narcos was shot and killed on a dirt road outside Mexico City.
There were no witnesses to the shooting, but 2017 is on track to be Mexicos deadliest year.
Now its time for you to weigh in.
What did you think of this season next to the Escobar-heavy ones?
Are you looking forward to Season 4?
Advertisement

The Playlist: A Farewell From Leonard Cohen and 8 More New Songs

Image Leaving the Table, a song from Leonard Cohens final album, has been turned into an animated video.
Credit Chad Batka for The New York Times

Every Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the weeks most notable new songs and videos  and anything else that strikes them as intriguing.
This week, Noah Cyrus teams up with a rapper embroiled in controversy, Angel Olsen reveals a song from an upcoming album of rarities and Sweet Pea Atkinson gives us a taste of his first solo album in 35 years.
Just want the music?
Listen to this Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes).
Like what you hear?
Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com , and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage, here .
Leonard Cohen, Leaving the Table

One of Leonard Cohens farewell songs from his 2016 album, You Want It Darker, has been turned into an animated video in time for what would have been his 83rd birthday on Sept. 21.
It has his black-suited, fedora-hatted silhouette floating above the clouds and through images drawn from his life and songs: a typewriter, the neon sign of the Chelsea Hotel, a bird on a wire.
Its a flickering, chiaroscuro tribute that never upstages the song itself, with the halflight nostalgia of its arrangement and its knowing acceptance of mortality.
JON PARELES

Angel Olsen, Special

Special is a previously unreleased song from Phases, a collection of Angel Olsens non-album tracks, demos and rarities due Nov. 10.
Its an obstinately slow, seething, eventually erupting seven minutes of latter-day Velvet Underground rock.
Ms. Olsen mingles a declaration of longing and an identity crisis  Tell me Im nothing  thats set to four endlessly circling chords and sung with slurred, dead-eyed vocals as the band gradually works itself up to the verge of feedback.
The song might have derailed an album sequence, but it deserved to be unearthed.
J.P.

Advertisement

Noah Cyrus featuring XXXTentacion, Again

Like her big sister Miley before her, Noah Cyrus is aligning herself with hip-hop at an early, pivotal stage of her career.
But unlike her older sister, she has chosen a lightning rod to associate herself with.
In the last 12 months, the Florida rapper-singer XXXTentacion has gone from jail  on charges of assaulting a pregnant woman  to the Billboard Hot 100, thanks to his rowdy punk-rap single Look at Me.
Two weeks ago, gruesome details from the deposition of his alleged victim were reported by Pitchfork .
It would seem to be a particularly ill-advised moment to implicitly co-sign him.
Ms. Cyrus is 17, and her fans likely much younger.
Putting them in the crosshairs of a potential moral quandary lands somewhere between thoughtless and irresponsible.
The song is fine.
JON CARAMANICA

Marta Snchez, Flesh

Next week Marta Snchez, a Madrid-born, New York-based pianist, will release Danza Imposible.
It features eight tunes she wrote explicitly for her two-saxophone quintet that dance with an unruly grace.
Its glimmering, propulsive music, with hints of elegiac Spanish folk song, cool jazz from the 1950s and the Romantic modern jazz of the 1990s.
Flesh showcases Ms. Snchezs amalgam of unkempt flow and patterned logic: She sets the tone up front with an angular, two-handed tangle, eventually fading behind the saxophones of Romn Filiu and Jerome Sabbagh.
They trade tones and accents in what feels more like a percussion duet than a melody statement, until Ms. Snchez emerges again with a solo thats both darting and deliberate.
She sculpts small, half-moon motifs and then drifts along, constantly shedding and accruing.
GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO

Weaves featuring Tanya Tagaq, Scream

Weaves answer to political frustration and bafflement is equal parts wry distance and primal fury in Scream from Wide Open, its album due Oct. 6.
We are living in a time when misery is just common circumstance, Jasmyn Burke sings with a slyly jazzy tone; the band provides a deliberate, skulking shuffle and a teasing wah-wah guitar.
But theyre soon joined by Tanya Tagaq, an untrammeled vocalist who shrieks, growls and cackles with all the intensity of Yoko Ono or Diamanda Gals.
She stokes the band into a crashing, clattering brouhaha as Ms. Burke wails, I want you to scream your name.
J.P.

Sweet Pea Atkinson, Am I Grooving You

Here comes the first solo album in 35 years from Sweet Pea Atkinson, a journeyman vocalist who never truly found stardom but soaked up a library of American sounds working behind Bonnie Raitt, Solomon Burke, Lyle Lovett and others.
Get What You Deserve is a fine reintroduction to Mr. Atkinsons distinctive swagger and his smoldering, emphatic croon.
Theres Motown soul, flinty Memphis blues and svelte 1980s balladry etched into these songs.
Nowhere is the brew more potent than on Am I Grooving You, a plea for romantic affirmation first sung by Freddie Scott .
Over a two-chord throb, Mr. Atkinson beseeches: Do you need me?/Do you always want me by your side?
Eventually a corps of sharp female voices delivers the payoff: You know you make me want to shout/Baby, you really knock me out.
Ibeyi featuring Mala Rodriguez, Me Voy

Ibeyi is a duo of twin sisters from Cuba now based in France; Mala Rodriguez is a smoky-voiced rapper from Spain.
Their collaboration, Me Voy (Im Leaving) is a programmed pop construction with a brittle near-reggaeton beat and lyrics in Spanish.
Its about a tryst before a separation, an almost mystical closeness and what comes afterwards as the lovers have to move on.
The sisters sing, Remember it.
J.P.

Alice Boman, Dreams

The Swedish songwriter Alice Boman is a ghostly, whispered presence in Dreams, which starts as an elegy and ends with solace.
When hope dies, that is what hurts the most/The clarity that comes when you see what you have lost, she breathes over simple piano chords.
A ticking beat arrives and other instruments materialize as the singer conjures her own refuge, perhaps illusory but as tangible as the music itself: Is there a place where we can go where dreams begin?
J.P.

Musicianer, Evening of Mourning (Ferguson Goddam)

A lot of the music being made today (hip-hop, electronic, jazz, what-have-you) is about asking how far the low end can carry things on its own.
More than before in American music, bass is the resonance, the rhythm and the grounding force.
Musicianer  a trio featuring the baritone saxophonist Josh Sinton, the bassist Jason Ajemian and the drummer Chad Taylor  is all about low power.
But it doesnt deal in known commodities: These three players dont care much about cycles of percussion or deep, immersive atmosphere.
Instead Mr. Sinton wrings his corpulent instrument for its full range of values: toneless smears; soul-baring swells; chomping, roughed-up blasts.
Evening of Mourning (Ferguson Goddam) is a lament for racial justice, with its musical roots in New York free jazz: starting with a simple repeated cry, the saxophonist opens up space for Mr. Taylor, who sets things in motion with hard-bitten splashes of improvisation.
Then the trio moves toward a surge, evoking chaos and determination and messy cohesion.
How to convert acts of mass horror into live performance?
In spoken theater, the oral testimony of victims, witnesses, even perpetrators, has been adapted into memorable docudramas about war crimes, genocide and other forms of social and political violence.
The appalling nature of the events described has often been all the more effective when the actors speak the words in a contrastingly low-key manner.
But how to adapt those horrors into dance or musical theater, genres seemingly not ready-made for such issues.
In Unwanted, at the Baryshnikov Arts Center, the choreographer and musician Dorothe Munyaneza, who witnessed genocide in Rwanda as a child, presents the verbatim accounts of women in several countries (Congo, the former Yugoslavia, Rwanda and others) who experienced militarized rape and its consequences.
Ms. Munyaneza makes the experience elaborately layered.
Some words are spoken, others are chanted or sung.
Nonverbal music is played.
Dancing and a range of physical actions express multiple aspects of trauma.
At several points, technology is used to recycle music or words after a few seconds; the repetition becomes psychologically expressive of thoughts, memories and feelings that keep returning to haunt.
You see just two women, Ms. Munyaneza and Holland Andrews; you also hear electronic music by Alain Mah.
Photo

The range of idioms employed here veers between the cool objectivity of spoken docudrama and the intensely lyrical extremes of quasi-operatic mad scenes.
Though madness in drama can include falsification, its main point (from Euripides and Shakespeare through Romantic opera to strands of modern drama) is to show how harsh experience causes derangement; it flicks and fragments the mind into flights and shards that reveal the effect of trauma on thought.
Theres a passage here in which Ms. Andrewss vocal cadenzas feel like a modern version of a Romantic mad scene: A high soprano melodic line floats, showing the minds escape into a separate zone, and then, suddenly, rasping chest tones show a more violent explosion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Unwanted is primarily more music than dance.
At times, the singing comes close to the intense outpouring of the blues.
Sequences of chanting show a different way to deal with bleak facts: quietly intoning things that happened as part of history.
Women who saw their mothers and friends killed were raped by those very killers; then they gave birth to children.
One woman who has come to regard her rapist as a hyena.
She looks at his baby in her arms and sees only a hyena: Should she kill it?
Mr. van der Aas libretto mingles riffs on incidents from Jonkers life  recounting an accidental drowning, set in 1976, of a young boy who walks into the sea  and spoken verses from her writings.
But his two characters are unnamed archetypal figures, Woman and Man.
Photo

The Woman, after pulling stray words and thoughts together with obvious difficulty, tells of the drowning of her 7-year-old son at play, which she witnessed but  riveted to the groundfrozen  was powerless to prevent.
Then the Man appears (the boy is represented only on film), recalling what seems to be the same incident from his perspective, telling of the death of his mother as she saved him from drowning.
Mr. van der Aas stage direction, in a production that originated at the Dutch National Opera last year, presents it all in wondrous technological strokes.
The Swedish soprano Miah Persson, the lone live presence on stage as the Woman, also appears in the 3-D film in two seemingly identical manifestations, often singing duets, and even trios, with herself.
Her live singing is amplified, to match with the recorded sound, but it was done subtly enough on Thursday that her voice retained its distinctive qualities of tone and expression.
Her English, in both speech and song, was admirably clear.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Persson also interacts with the British baritone Roderick Williams, as the Man, who appears only on film.
His tone, as recorded, was also attractive, his delivery pliant.
In addition, the Netherlands Chamber Choir sings in the film, echoing the text in little word bouquets, but is not seen.
Mr. van der Aas music is spare but compelling, ranging from long, lyrical vocal lines to electronic sound effects and techno-pop.
Doubling as a sort of stagehand, Ms. Persson moves props around and rearranges small models of the Woman and Mans home, which are then projected on the screen, blown up to life size.
All of this took place remarkably seamlessly on Thursday and held attention throughout, despite the occasional distraction of trying to figure out just how the magician was doing his technical tricks.
The production was especially effective at establishing moods and atmospheres, and carrying through motifs like mirrors and shadows.
Floriaan Ganzevoort made a strong contribution as lighting designer.
Not every composer is so versatile technologically, of course, and it remains to be seen how effective a model Blank Out will be for the future of opera.
Mr. van der Aa, at least, can undoubtedly be counted on to continue to point up the possibilities.
Is it melancholy to think of this being your last Carnegie performance?
I was thinking today, the first time I ever sang here was in Verdis I Lombardi, with Eve Queler, and that was December 72.
It sounds scary, but its true!
Photo

Tell me about when you got leukemia, in 1987.
You were 40 years old and filming La Bohme in Paris.
What happened?
I felt exhausted, bad enough that even in the middle of working I told a friend, Look, I want to go to a hospital to have a checkup.
I went, they made some tests, and a few hours later they told me I had to stay for the night.
I said, What?
Are you kidding?
Theres a crew waiting for me.
Altogether, I was in hospitals for 11 months.
The chances were really very poor.
But Ive been extremely lucky.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
How did the Three Tenors come about?
Lets face it, people think there is a lot of rivalry between tenors, and particularly at the time with Plcido and Luciano.
I talked to my colleagues, and from the first moment they were happy with the idea.
It was very soon after my recovery, and they thought that with this they could give me a welcome back.
Did you imagine it would become such a huge success?
It was unbelievable.
It was also unbelievable the kind of relationship we had, the three of us.
The three of us are tenor lovers, so we had the possibility to enjoy ourselves very much.
And on top of that we are completely different personalities, and kinds of artists, and physically also very different from one another.
And I think that created a kind of chemistry.
When you look back at your opera career, was there a particular role that you felt suited you best, or a performance where you felt most successful?
Maybe I sound arrogant, but I think the best performance, if I think about a performance that was a step forward to a higher level, was my debut at La Scala [in Milan] with Un Ballo in Maschera.
That was in 75.
That night I was really very lucky.
At your debut at La Scala to give your best, this is lucky.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some critics thought that you sang some dramatic roles, like Radams in Aida, too soon, and it damaged your voice.
Why did I sing Radames in Aida?
Because that was Salzburg, with Herbert von Karajan, the Vienna Philharmonic, Mirella Freni, etc., etc.
If you dont take this opportunity as an artist  Im not talking about career, or business, but as an artist.
To have this extreme joy of being not just in the first league, but at the top of the very first league  you have to take this risk.
When you are a young singer youre told: You have to sing with the interest, not with the capital.
But the capital is your voice.
You have to use your capital!
In business, when you invest in something, you have to use your capital.
What do you most enjoy singing now?
In the end, what I realized is that what the audience wants to listen to is the repertoire I enjoy myself: the Italian songs, the Spanish songs, Neapolitan songs.
I sang a recital a couple of years ago at La Scala, and somebody asked me at a news conference, Ah, but your repertoire, Mr. Carreras, is so-and-so.
I said, Look, Ive sung in this beautiful opera house more than 40 years.
Allow me to enjoy myself now!
Photo

Soon President Trump wont be the only American president with TV ties.
Showtime announced that it had acquired the rights to develop the novel being written by former President Bill Clinton and James Patterson, the best-selling author, into a series.
The details about the novel, titled The President Is Missing, have been scant since the project was announced in May.
The novel, to be published in 2018, tells the story about a sitting president that has gone missing.
Im really enjoying writing this book and working with Jim, Mr. Clinton said in a statement.
And I cant wait to see Showtime bring the characters to life.
No release date was announced for the television version of the novel, but it is certainly an unconventional post-presidency venture.
Former presidents routinely write memoirs but rarely delve into fiction.
(In 2003 Jimmy Carter wrote The Hornets Nest, a novel set in the Revolutionary War.)
A spokeswoman for Showtime said that the deal came together with assistance from CBSs chief executive, Leslie Moonves.
Showtime is a subsidiary of the CBS Corporation.
Many creators have become so popular that theyre also working for studios, on everything from variant posters (Tracie Chings prints for The Jungle Book) to Blu-ray covers (Marie Bergerons illustrations for Takeshi Kitano films).
Last year, the illustrator Kyle Lambert created the official Stranger Things poster, his homage to classic hand-painted ones of the 1980s.
Today, there are galleries and digital archives (Repostered.com and AlternativeMoviePosters.com) devoted to the form.
And then there are the books, like the Crazy 4 Cult: Cult Movie Art series, Mr. Chojnackis Alternative Movie Posters (being published in French by Akileos in October) and, this month, The Art of Mondo, a lavishly illustrated history of the company.
The artists are an eclectic and talented bunch.
Here are seven to watch:

Photo

Tracie Ching

Washington

Ms. Ching has created gorgeous concert posters for Kings of Leon and graphics for small-batch beer cans (Brewdog Pump Action Poet).
But its her vibrant, spellbinding movie posters that have led to work at Sony (The Magnificent Seven) and AMC (Fear the Walking Dead).
She does official stuff, but there are a lot of rules from the studios about so-and-sos face has to be so big, Mr. Chojnacki said.
So I think shell always continue to do the alternative stuff, just for her fans.
Among his favorites: her takes on the Stanley Kubrick classics Dr. Strangelove and The Shining.
Photo

Marie Bergeron

Montreal

When Ms. Bergeron was enlisted to create a poster for The Godfather, she pictured a decapitated horse, neck bones exposed, rearing up on its hind legs.
For Apocalypse Now: a lone soldier, making his way upstream through a waist-deep river of blood.
Ms. Bergeron has created album covers, video-game-inspired triptychs, and a recruiting poster for Imperial stormtroopers (Support the Boys in White) for the Harper Design book Star Wars Propaganda.
She has a talent for painting emotions, Mr. Chojnacki said.
Every time you see one of her posters, you know its her.
Photo

Jason Edmiston

Toronto

A lover of all things spooky, Mr. Edmiston has tackled chain-saw-wielding killers and the pantheon of Universal monsters.
Among his best-loved works: his creepy, crayon-colored celebration of the Chiodo Brothers cult classic Killer Klowns From Outer Space, and his in-your-face take on John Carpenters 1978 slasher classic, Halloween, which captures the precise moment when Michael Myers bursts into the closet and starts stabbing.
Hes the guy I collected the most original art of, Rob Jones, Mondos creative director, said.
Over my wifes side of the bed is his Bride of Frankenstein, and over my side of the bed is Blacula.
Photo

We Buy Your Kids

Sydney

We Buy Your Kids is the Australian design duo of Sonny Day and Biddy Maroney, whose work has appeared on childrens books and album covers, premium cider labels and skate decks.
Their style, reminiscent of 1960s Polish film posters, bear little resemblance to the originals, let alone works by their poster-producing peers.
For the 1986 version of The Fly, the duo summed up one of the most viscerally disturbing sci-fi films in a single image of a finger dripping with goo.
Thats probably my favorite of theirs, Mr. Jones said.
Its gross and sexual at the same time.
Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Phantom City Creative

Toronto

Justin Erickson and Paige Reynolds make up Phantom City Creative, whose recent commissions include a special edition soundtrack album for the A&E series Bates Motel, and a poster for a Christmas Day screening of Quentin Tarantinos The Hateful Eight.
For Jaws, Phantom City Creative envisioned a beach-facing window framed by a great whites gaping maw.
For Godzilla, Mr. Erickson captured the Japanese terror as a pile of wrecked buildings in one poster; in another, as a pillar of smoke and fire.
He even did a great one where he used the kanji for Godzilla  the Japanese lettering spelling out the title  and actually made it look like Godzilla, Mr. Jones said.
Photo

Kevin Tong

Austin, Tex.
Theres a lot going on in a Kevin Tong poster.
In his wondrous take on The Wizard of Oz, you get simultaneous glimpses of gloomy Kansas and the Emerald City, one in front of the other; in a commission based on Akira Kurosawas Ran, theres an exploding, upside-down castle, an eerie ghost, and samurai and horses falling out of a blood-red sky.
For the Mondo poster for Psycho, Mr. Tong reimagined Hitchcocks iconic shower scene.
He was trying to show that entire scene, trying to mimic that experience of watching that scene in real time, but in a single image, Mr. Jones said.
And he succeeded.
You get a chill.
A lively meditation on mortality and time, The Last Match takes place in the minds of two players during a hard-fought United States Open semifinal.
Mr. Bethel plays Tim, an aging American contemplating retirement.
Mr. Mickiewicz plays Sergei, his volatile Russian challenger.
Ms. Upchurch has decided that while neither actor will need to try an ace or even hold a racket onstage, but both have to look like they could.
Photo

In the interests of authenticity, Ms. Carillo, resplendent in a Billie Jean King T-shirt and baseball jacket, gathered the actors together and taught them a few tricks.
She showed them how to test the tension of the racket by hitting it against the palm, how to swat a ground ball and make it leap into your hand, how to strut back to the baseline after a successful point.
You give them a little attitude, she said.
Its a ritual.
She also showed them a delaying technique Maria Sharapova uses.
Pick at your strings, she said, thats a good one.
Though Ms. Carillo won the 1977 mixed doubles title at the French Open, partnered by her childhood pal John McEnroe, she was quick to downplay her expertise.
I didnt play long and I wasnt that good, she said.
I grew up playing on the same courts as McEnroe.
He was doing things Id never seen anybody do.
She remembered when she was 12 and he was 10, sitting him down and telling him, You are going to be the greatest player in the world someday.
And he looked at me and said, Shut up, you dont know what youre talking about.
The actors seemed a lot less skeptical.
Throughout the morning they toggled between eagerness and mild embarrassment as they quizzed Ms. Carillo about the life of a pro and practiced her techniques.
Natalia Payne, who plays Sergeis fiance, Galina, and who had never held a racket before, seemed a little overwhelmed.
As a first-time player on a court at the United States Open, start high, get Mary Carillo to train you, those would be my tips, she said.
Then she hung her head.
Photo

Mr. Bethel, best known as the bad-boy bartender on the CW comedy Hart of Dixie, seemed the more confident of the two, probably because he played competitive tennis as a teenager and has worked as a coach.
Until fairly recently, he had secretly hoped to turn pro.
Throughout the morning, he harbored a fantasy that maybe Rafael Nadal had somehow hung around after winning the mens title the day before.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Id be like, Hey, do you want a hitting partner?
And he was going to be like, Yeah!
Mr. Bethel confessed.
But even with Mr. Nadal a no-show, Mr. Bethel appeared delighted, even awe-struck by his surroundings.
He described this courtside rehearsal as the most bizarre convergence of two separate dreams.
Im having to pinch myself pretty regularly.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Maybe those dreams arent so separate.
At least thats what Ms. Carillo insisted.
She drew multiple parallels between theater and athletics, insisting that tennis is very creative and that success in either athletics or acting requires total dedication.
Ms. Carillo can speak with some authority, having appeared in the 2004 romantic comedy Wimbledon.
I was fabulous, said Ms. Carillo.
My two scenes saved that film.
Just kidding.
(On that set, she took time out to help the actress Kirsten Dunst with her serve.
She wasnt even bending her knees, Ms. Carillo said.)
Though Ms. Carillo hasnt played a tournament since Wimbledon in 1980, she said that she still woke up in a sweat thinking she had to prepare for a match.
To play tennis, she said, you put it on the line.
Youve got to be committed.
Youve got to be focused.
Its the same thing onstage: Youre up there.
Its on you.
You cant fake it.
Photo

But faking tennis expertise is just what Mr. Bethel, Mr. Mickiewicz and Ms. Winters, who plays Mallory, Tims wife and a former Top 20 womens player, will have to do.
(Happily, Ms. Payne gets a bye.)
When he was younger, Mr. Bethel looked to the gritty players, he said.
I always liked the scrappy guy.
But to play Tim, Mr. Bethel said he took inspiration from more graceful players, particularly Roger Federer, the aging champion who is fighting and sort of conquering time, he said.
(Mr. Bethel, who recently developed tennis elbow in a major way, hasnt been quite so lucky.)
To take on Sergei, a role he created at the Old Globe in San Diego, last year, Mr. Mickiewicz looked to hothead players like the Australian Nick Kyrgios.
Theres a temper there and a self-destructive button, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Winters was feeling wistful about the womens finalists, Madison Keys and the decisive winner Sloane Stephens, two unranked players who came roaring back after injuries in ways that her character Mallory does not.
She began brushing up on her tennis as soon as she was cast.
My forehand is pretty decent, but my backhand and my serve definitely need some attention, she said.
My serve is probably top-notch, Mr. Mickiewicz joked.
He also congratulated himself on his overall swagger and the dour expression that the cast calls tennis face.
Ms. Carillo, watching him from the sidelines, approved.
Hes actually doing a pretty good job, she said.
Hes faking the funk.
Then she looked at his serve more closely.
Not that grip, she murmured.
Hes not going to be able to pronate.
Well, she said more cheerfully, he doesnt have to do that for the part.
Some tennis matches are tragedies.
Some are comedies.
Some are farces.
And the outfits are pretty nifty, too.
With the sports mix of grace and ferocity, brains and brute force, tennis has thwacked its way into plenty of plays, from Shakespeares Henry V to Amanda Peets forthcoming Our Very Own Carlin McCullough.
Heres a sampling of recent stage upsets and smashes.
Photo

Big Bill

The disgraced tennis great Bill Tilden swung again in A.R.
Gurneys biographical drama, which was staged at Lincoln Centers Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater in 2004 and starred John Michael Higgins in the title role.
In his New York Times review, Ben Brantley wrote that the play, about a gentlemanly athlete and dogged sexual predator, diffuses its potential impact by assembling notebooks worth of research and then laying it out in the manner of a conscientious students term paper.
Photo

Hell Meets Henry Halfway

In adapting Witold Gombrowiczs Possessed, the physical theater troupe Pig Iron and the playwright Adriano Shaplin made a Gothic murder mystery a lot sportier.
As intrigue swirls in a Polish country home, characters volleyed balls and accusations.
The Times critic described the 2004 production as a Tilt-a-Whirl of a show that leaves you dizzy and means to.
Photo

Deuce

Terrence McNallys 2007 play is best remembered for its ace cast, Angela Lansbury and Marian Seldes.
They played the members of a long estranged womens doubles team, finally reunited at the United States Open.
Ben Brantley characterized the dramas central conflict as a fight between two valiant, vibrant actresses against a swamp of a play that keeps trying to suck the life out of them.
Photo

Dont You _______ Say a Word

Andy Bragens 2016 four-hander with an unpublishable title premiered at 59E59 Theaters last year.
Mr. Bragens heated outburst during an ostensibly friendly match was its inspiration.
As two men relive the match and the ensuing tirade, their girlfriends provide color commentary.
Photo

Scenes From Court Life, or the whipping boy and his prince

In Sarah Ruhls intricate political drama, directed by Mark Wing-Davey at the Yale Repertory Theater last year, siblings Jeb and George W. Bush vie for dominance on the tennis court and off it, too.
Theyre joined in competition by the Stuart monarchs Charles I and Charles II.
With her sparkling footwork, musicality and lustrous phrasing, Ms. Fairchild, 33, who makes her Odette-Odile debut on Sept. 26, is used to commanding the stage in effortless displays of virtuosity, especially in ballets by the companys founding choreographer, George Balanchine, like Donizetti Variations, Rubies and Tchaikovsky Pas de Deux.
But her roles in full-length ballets have veered more toward Sleeping Beauty and Copplia  parts, traditionally, for smaller dancers.
(Ms. Fairchild is 5 feet 4 inches.)
One tends to typecast people, Mr. Martins said in an interview.
You have your soubrettes, your tall dancers and so forth  you wouldnt put her in Diamonds, you would put her in Rubies.
Thats sort of historic here.
Balanchine set the pace in that regard.
On the other hand, every once in a while there are people who defy any category, and I think shes one of those.
Ms. Fairchild took a leave of absence from City Ballet in 2014 to perform as Ivy Smith in On the Town and returned to the company with her crisp technique intact  impressive and rare  while dancing with more exhilaration and daring than ever before.
Shes even grown a half-inch.
(She credits it to Pilates and Gyrotonics.)
Photo

That growth  in body and spirit  was apparent in the studio.
At a recent Swan Lake rehearsal, Gonzalo Garcia, her Prince Siegfried, watched in fascination as she followed the suggestion of the ballet master Susan Hendl to think of her relev  rising on her toes  as coming from her hip in arabesque.
Wow, Mr. Garcia said.
Ms. Fairchild shot him a look.
Really?
Its not little Megan anymore, he said.
Its big Megan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But her groans, which gave way to bursts of dismayed laughter, also revealed what a challenge Swan Lake is.
At one point, she announced, I have to say this is my most unfavorite start to a variation.
Watching and listening to Ms. Fairchild, 33, who strings sentences together as rapidly as an actress in a screwball comedy, was a window into her dancing as much as into her agile mind.
(After 15 years, she earned a degree in mathematics and economics from Fordham University in May.)
She remained silent for a rare moment as she looked at the wall in disbelief.
Did that clock move at all?
It had been a long rehearsal.
Yet as she progressed through it, she increasingly let go of her inhibitions and began to discover the dangerous sparkle of Odile, and you could sense that Ms. Fairchild was coming around to Swan Lake.
There is a sense of freedom about it, she said later.
Instead of feeling like I have to be what other people look like, Im going to be my own little swan.
Born in Salt Lake City, Ms. Fairchild started dancing at 4.
(Her brother, Robert Fairchild, is also a principal with the company, but will leave it next month to pursue musical-theater projects.)
For much of her career, despite her seeming confidence onstage, Ms. Fairchild said she felt out of her depth at City Ballet.
Part of it was because of her brisk rise through the ranks: She joined the corps de ballet in 2002 and by 2005 she was a principal and dancing with the more mature Joaquin De Luz.
He was short; he needed a partner.
I felt like, well if hes gone am I really crucial?
she said.
I started feeling like I was serving someone elses career.
She and Mr. De Luz, she said, are good friends.
But shes not sure if he realized how difficult it was for her.
He was already an established artist, she said.
I didnt know what I was doing.
On the Town, for which she received a Tony nomination, transformed her.
It ended up informing my ballet career, which is so cool, she said.
I dont think that Peter would ever think that would be great for one of his dancers and thank God he let me go.
Its made me a better dancer for him, and I think thats why Im doing Swan Lake.
Photo

Mr. Martins said he had always been impressed with Ms. Fairchild.
She seems so spontaneous when she dances, and yet its very carefully calibrated, he said.
Its very intelligent.
Plus the fact that she can dance like nobody.
He laughed with pleasure.
You know what?
The other thing I love about her is her spirit.
Its just so pleasing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Swan Lake?
She will make something of it, he said.
I can guarantee you that.
Before On the Town, Ms. Fairchild said, she had been an anxiety stress ball and plagued by fainting spells.
They havent returned since she started practicing Transcendental Meditation, which turned out to be an even more necessary coping mechanism when she and her then-husband, Andrew Veyette, a principal with City Ballet, separated two years ago.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Now divorced, they were a couple from the time Ms. Fairchild was 18 until she was 31.
After they danced together during the winter season, she announced their split on Instagram.
They still dont speak.
Ms. Fairchild now lives with her French boyfriend, whom she met online, in an apartment in Union City, N.J.  its spectacular as her Instagram account attests  with floor-to-ceiling windows.
A really great friend of mine on Broadway was on OkCupid, and I would swipe for her throughout the year, Ms. Fairchild said.
Then when I was single, I was like, I am going to go find my own.
And while her divorce was incredibly painful, she said, it was also the best thing that ever happened to me.
She continued: Going into On the Town was this wonderful moment for me of breaking out of this bubble of the company, but I would say the grind of all of those shows broke up my marriage.
And it needed to be broken up.
Its been two years and she has clearly moved on.
But theres one problem: proximity.
She faces her ex-husband at work every day.
Its the worst thing ever, she said.
I highly recommend no one ever dating at work.
And we all do it in the company.
I get why we do it!
We have weird hours, we have weird breaks.
Now Im with someone who has a totally regular job.
Hallelujah!
Im happier than ever.
And, she said, Broadway taught her where she belonged: at City Ballet.
Thank God I said yes to it!
she said of her decision to play Ivy Smith.
I felt like I was always trying to be something else.
Just me is enough, Ms. Fairchild said.
And Im a ballerina really at heart.
Photo

Timothy OLeary, a young American impresario who made new works and community engagement central to his success at the helm of Opera Theater of Saint Louis, will become the next general director of the Washington National Opera, the company announced Friday.
Mr. OLeary, 42, said that he looked forward to making sure that his company lived up to its middle name  pointedly pronouncing it Washington National Opera  and to capitalizing on being in what he called a golden age of new American works.
There are more new American operas being programmed throughout the whole country, by companies large and small, than ever before, he said in a telephone interview.
Whereas 20 years ago that kind of project was regarded as something opera companies did out of a sense of duty, these are now often the sellout shows of opera seasons, and provide companies with many of their most meaningful opportunities to engage with the culture at large.
In St. Louis Mr. OLeary staged a series of world premieres of American operas, including Champion, a boxing-and-jazz themed opera by Terence Blanchard and Michael Cristofer; 27, by Ricky Ian Gordon and Royce Vavrek; and Shalimar the Clown by Jack Perla and Rajiv Joseph, based on the Salman Rushdie novel.
He doubled the companys endowment to $33 million, from $16.5 million when he took over in 2008.
And he worked closely with community groups: When St. Louis presented The Death of Klinghoffer by John Adams in 2011, it avoided the kind of bitter protests that the work had attracted before, and has attracted since, in part by organizing interfaith dialogues.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Washington, Mr. OLeary will work with the companys artistic director, Francesca Zambello, who is known for both the opera productions she directs and her community outreach programs.
(As the general director of the Glimmerglass Festival, the summer opera festival in Cooperstown, N.Y., she has brought singers to perform at Attica for the past three years.)
One of Mr. OLearys first orders of business will be to help name a new music director to succeed Philippe Auguin, who will leave after this season.
Mr. OLeary, who is the chairman of the board of Opera America, a national service organization, will begin the position July 1, after wrapping up his final season in St. Louis.
His last new work there suggests a certain affinity with his future operatic home: It is a two-act version of An American Soldier, about Pvt.
Danny Chen, a young Chinese-American from New York City who killed himself in Afghanistan after he was hazed and racially taunted by fellow soldiers.
The work is being expanded by its composer, Huang Ruo, and librettist, David Henry Hwang, from an hourlong version they wrote for the Washington National Opera in 2014.
How is fatherhood treating you so far?
Im going to sound awful, but I thought it was going to be a lot harder.
[laughs] I built it up so much in my mind and got so panicked.
But its been wonderful so far.
Babies are not as fragile as I thought they would be.
When the nurse handed me the baby, my arms went numb.
I was like, I cant do this, I cant do this.
Now I toss her around like a beanbag.
Taking the sitcom meant leaving your longtime home at S.N.L.
Why take that plunge?
You spend all your time worrying about how youre going to get on S.N.L., and then once you do, you spend all your time worrying about when youre going to leave.
Its a seven-year contract, and then I signed for another two years.
I would have stayed if I didnt have something that I felt comfortable going to, but once this project came, I thought, this is the one.
What was your final show like?
I was very, very sick, but it was a perfect day.
Tom Hanks and Alec Baldwin carried me offstage at the end.
Its one of the only times I posted on Instagram.
I said, I cant believe this happened, so Im going to force this one down your throat.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
You dont like calling attention to yourself.
No, I hate that.
I always used to say to Lorne [Michaels, the shows creator], I would be perfectly happy doing Saturday Night Live, them not airing it, and I just got a copy to take home and watch when I was in my 60s.
Theres a wheelhouse that your best S.N.L.
characters seemed to fall into 

Very confident weirdos.
Thats what Ive always been drawn to.
Thats me.
Im also kind of an idiot.
Theres a little part of me in everything that I do.
Drunk Uncle is pretty much just me, minus the racism.
How are you adjusting to life in Los Angeles?
I thought this was going to be the most stressed-out I would ever be, and its not.
S.N.L.
is your wife, its your girlfriend, its your mistress, its everything.
Me, Myself & I is a much easier schedule.
I dont mind traffic in L.A. at all, because I just sit there and listen to Howard Stern or Hawaiian music.
I wish I was kidding.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When we see your version of Alex, hes quite down on his luck.
Can you relate to that?
Other than the wife cheating on him, which I hope hasnt happened yet  oh, and I dont live in a garage, I swear.
[laughs] No, I definitely dont have the despair that Alex does right now.
I worked really hard to get here, and its nice to start to enjoy it a little bit.
Why do you think you turned to comedy?
I think I just needed attention really bad.
I enjoyed making people laugh.
I was just like, someday Ill be on S.N.L., and itll all work out, and everything will be fine.
And it worked, and Im super-happy about that.
Because I couldnt do anything else.
I couldnt work in an office.
I would kill myself.
You routinely encounter celebrities you admire.
Are you able to avoid getting star-struck?
I freak out all the time.
I was walking down the street and saw a guy coming toward me, and I was like, no way  is this him?
I dont think Ive ever done this.
I said, Excuse me, sir, my names Bobby Moynihan, Im on Saturday Night Live.
And it was Anthony Daniels, the guy who plays C-3PO [in Star Wars].
I just accosted him on the street.
And he said, How did you know it was me?
in C-3POs voice.
I couldnt believe it.
Macduff and Banquo are the main supporting characters, each played by a puppet of sorts: Macduff represented by a hockey glove (Lady Macduff is an oven mitt), Banquo by a foam plate with eyes (his wife is also a plate, but with lashes and a hair bow).
The witches are folded-paper figures  black, of course.
Photo

The eggs, by the way, represent children, and they may break your heart in a way you dont see coming.
The actors manipulate them all, and these simple objects prove versatile vessels for the shows whipsaw mood changes: comic or tender at one instant, brutal or woeful the next.
Each switch is supported by Mr. Stewarts winking sound design, rife with pop-song samples.
Borrowing from the visual language of film, Macbeth Muet takes some of the forms storytelling liberties, too, cutting between present and past to explain how these characters got to their current situation.
Flashbacks show each couple  the Macduffs, the Banquos, the Macbeths  meeting, falling in love and either starting a family or trying to.
We watch the Macbeths, sweetly hopeful, harden with each loss they suffer.
Silent-movie-style placards, sparingly deployed, impart information at moments when text is vital.
One is the famous warning to Macbeth, which he takes as reassurance: that none of woman born shall harm him.
A flurry of placards also arrives near the end, cheekily explicating the loophole that leads to his vanquishment anyway.
Otherwise, though, it is up to the audience to be familiar enough with Macbeth to follow as the actors briskly hit its highlights.
What rescues the show from mere cleverness is its overarching vision, made vivid in a final tableau that would be a spoiler to describe.
In it, we see clearly the needless destruction that the power-mad leave in their wake, and it is revolting.
The Eastern-European-flavored Makbet, in Brooklyn, is an altogether different experience, starting with its setting: a nonprofit recycling center called Sure We Can.
The immersive prelude to this production begins outside, with audience and actors surrounded by tall piles of colorful bottles and cans wrapped in clear plastic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The effect is oddly cheerful.
The live accordion music helps with that, and so does the sustenance that the friendly performers offer around: perhaps a fat chunk of kielbasa to fortify against dark magic?
Or, for the same purpose, a small shot of vodka?
In old-country accents to match the fare, they insist that they distilled the vodka  which on Sunday afternoon was vanilla  out back.
Photo

We make it this morning, stepping on potatoes, the leader of this clan (Matt Mitler, Dzieci Theaters founder) told me.
After he stomped a foot for comic effect, I drank the stuff.
The audience sat in a circle on overturned plastic crates and listened as Mr. Mitler channeled messages from the spirit world for anyone who asked.
At the center of the circle was a garbage can, fire-blackened inside, and I suddenly thought how cozy it might have been for Shakespeares Weird Sisters, gathered around their caldron on a sunny late-summer day.
What I didnt think, then or at any point, was that when we all got up and walked into a corrugated shipping container to watch the play, the door would be shut behind us, which it was.
Im not claustrophobic, but it was about 80 degrees out, and frankly it seemed a little dangerous.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More than that, though, it was distracting  because if sweat is coursing down your body while the air is steadily thickening, you are not in an optimal environment for theatergoing.
We hadnt been in there long when I wondered if this was the dark magic that the vodka and sausage had been meant to fortify against.
Mr. Mitler, who adapted, directed and designed the 90-minute show, is one of its three principals, along with Megan Bones and Yvonne Brechbuhler.
They play nearly all of the roles, handing parts off to one another, sometimes in mid-speech.
Whichever actor is wearing the red shawl at any given moment is Lady Macbeth; whoever dons the black hat with the red band is her husband.
Other characters get their own costume signifiers, all of them pulled out of a big metal pot and clearly explained at the start.
It is a shadowy, dimly lit performance, with a chorus contributing atmospheric music.
The ritual of storytelling is built into the staging, with some remarkably lovely movement sequences.
But Makbet is vastly more interested in magic  the dark kind and the theatrical kind  than it is in the bloody struggle for the crown.
So there is no weight to its tragedy.
It becomes merely an experiment in form.
Photo

There are a couple major ways an alto saxophonist can handle the instrument.
You can clench and bridle, in the manner of an avant-gardist like Oliver Lake, using the horn to signify something like refusal.
Or you can tease the listener, dilate your sound, give it the vibrato of a body overcome.
Thats what Johnny Hodges did in Duke Ellingtons orchestra.
If youre Darius Jones, the most visceral and distinctive alto saxophonist of this era, you go for both.
This week at the Stone in Manhattan, Mr. Jones will be convening some new collaborators from pockets of the New York jazz world.
Hell start on Tuesday, Sept. 26, in a duo with the young drummer Kush Abadey, adding an instrument each night through Sunday, Oct. 1, when hell lead a septet.
All of the shows start at 8:30 p.m., and most will feature material from a fresh body of work hes calling Cartilage.
But the performance on Sunday is different, and it might be the one to catch: Joined by two vocalists and four instrumentalists, he will debut Law and Order, a work of guided improvisation interrogating the tension between autonomy and authority.
(Through Oct. 1; thestonenyc.com.)
Photo

Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA, the art extravaganza that fills some 70 Southern California art institutions to celebrate the foundational presence of Latin American art in the region, is now under full sail.
And probably none of its exhibitions more accessibly capture the hemispheric dynamic than How to Read El Pato Pascual: Disneys Latin America and Latin Americas Disney.
In 1941, Walt Disney traveled to South America with a small army of artists and screenwriters as part of the United States governments postwar Good Neighbor policy.
The trip produced Latinized versions of Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse in Disney films and accusations of cultural imperialism by Latin American artists.
The tale unfolds in this ingeniously thought-out Los Angeles show (through Jan. 14) divided between the MAK Center for Art and Architecture at the Schindler House and the Luckman Fine Arts Complex at the California State University, Los Angeles.
Photo

With Lucky, opening Friday, Sept. 29, Harry Dean Stanton, who died this month, landed the role of a lifetime as a 90-year-old, desert-town atheist seeking spiritual enlightenment as he confronts the void beyond.
(This directorial debut from John Carroll Lynch was written by Logan Sparks and Drago Sumonja with Mr. Stanton in mind.)
In Also Starring Harry Dean Stanton, Sept. 22-Oct. 1, the Quad Cinema in Manhattan rolls out 21 movies that propelled the laconic character actor and his soulfully furrowed countenance to cult stardom.
The lineup includes B. L. Nortons Cisco Pike, Monte Hellmans Cockfighter, Ridley Scotts Alien and Howard Deutchs Pretty in Pink, as well as Mr. Stantons first real lead, in Alex Coxs Repo Man (1984), and his breakthrough months later as a mostly silent drifter yearning to reconnect with his estranged family in Wim Wenderss Paris, Texas.
Mr. Stanton won the part after he confessed to its writer Sam Shepard, who died in July, in a Santa Fe bar that he longed to play something of some beauty or sensitivity.
(quadcinema.com)
Photo

The trumpeter and composer Nate Wooley favors subtlety over bombast and slowly winding structures over obvious drama.
His enigmatic sound world can seem to echo the unpredictability of the rest of the world.
An artist of rare integrity and artistic ambition, he is also a keen collaborator, and has organized For/With, a two-night mini-festival at Issue Project Room in Brooklyn that focuses on four composers  Christian Wolff, Ashley Fure, Michael Pisaro and Annea Lockwood  from whom he has commissioned works.
For, on Friday, Sept. 29, includes Mr. Wolffs solo For Trumpet Player and Ms. Lockwoods tribute to Pauline Oliveros alongside Ms. Fures percussion solo Shiver Lung 2 and an improvised duo for Mr. Wolff (on percussion) and Mr. Pisaro (electric guitar).
With, on Saturday, Sept. 30, features Mr. Pisaros piece for Mr. Wooley, Stem-Flower-Root, works by Ms. Lockwood and Mr. Wolff, and a discussion with the composers.
(8 p.m., Downtown Brooklyn, issueprojectroom.org.)
Photo

Joanne Froggatt, who twisted hearts as Anna Bates, the put-upon ladys maid in Downton Abbey, subjects herself to yet another round of hardship in Liar, starting Wednesday, Sept. 27, on SundanceTV.
Written by the brothers Harry and Jack Williams (The Missing), this six-part psychological thriller, which debuted in Britain this month, stars Ms. Froggatt as Laura Nielson, a teacher recently split from her long-term boyfriend, and Ioan Gruffudd (Fantastic Four) as Andrew Earlham, a widowed surgeon and father of one of her students, who asks her out on a date.
Things go swimmingly  the conversation flows, along with the wine  until the next morning, when, awakening to removed clothes and a gnawing suspicion, Laura summons the police.
With her allegations of having been drugged and raped in stark contrast to his adamant argument that the sex was consensual, and with no evidence to back up her claims, a vicious she-said, he-said war erupts.
Photo

LONDON  Cressida Pollock, chief executive of the English National Opera, will leave her position at the end of the current season, four months before her contract expires.
Her departure is the latest in a long series of departures from the beleaguered organization, which has had major funding cuts and management upheaval over the last two years.
Ms. Pollock, 35, who previously worked at an investment fund and for McKinsey & Company, was hired in March 2015, less than a year after Arts Council England, the companys principal funding body, cut its contribution 29 percent and questioned the organizations financial stability.
Soon after her appointment, made permanent in September 2015, John Berry, the longtime artistic director of English National Opera, left his post.
Controversy over Ms. Pollocks lack of arts management experience dominated her first months, and the threat of a strike from the chorus was narrowly averted after a labor agreement in March 2016 accepted pay cuts, layoffs and a move to nine-month contracts from yearlong ones.
The number of productions at the Coliseum, the companys home theater, was reduced to eight from 11 for the 2016-17 season, so that the opera house could be rented out at other times.
In an article written before the labor agreement was reached, Ms. Pollock said that some of these decisions had felt like a Sophies choice.
Days after it was finalized, Mark Wigglesworth, the companys new music director, resigned.
In April, the company announced the appointment of Daniel Kramer, an American theater and opera director, as artistic director.
There have been reports of tensions between Ms. Pollock and Mr. Kramer over production costs.
Ms. Pollocks measures appear to have improved the companys financial situation.
The Arts Council has said it no longer has serious concerns about English National Operas finances, and Harry Brunjes, the chairman of the company, which performs in English, said in a statement that Ms. Pollocks tenure had turned around our fortunes to deliver financial security.
In the same statement, Ms. Pollock described herself as greatly saddened to leave English National Opera.
Neither Ms. Pollock nor Mr. Brunjes were available for comment.
In a much-quoted remark in a March 2016 article, she said that she was not an opera buff by the standards of the world in which she now found herself.
But, she added, many of the people who make up our audience today are not opera buffs, and nor should they be.
Photo

On the jacket flap of her 2007 book The Principles of Uncertainty, the author and illustrator Maira Kalman briefly explains what the reader will find within  a fragmented personal diary abounding with anguish, confusion, bits of wisdom, musings, meanderings, buckets of joie de vivre.
Now brought to the stage in collaboration with choreographer John Heginbotham, the performance version of The Principles of Uncertainty, arriving Wednesday, Sept. 27, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, can be described pretty much the same way.
Ms. Kalman and Mr. Heginbotham, an alumnus of the Mark Morris Dance Group, spent three years building the whimsical world of this show.
In addition to the cabinet-of-curiosities set by Ms. Kalman, who also appears as a version of herself, that world is inhabited by seven dancers, actor Daniel Pettrow and four musicians performing an animated score by Colin Jacobsen of The Knights, which gently rocks between fanciful and melancholy.
The Principles of Uncertainty floats along without narrative, collecting impressions of lifes peculiarities and gently placing them in buckets of joie de vivre.
(Through Sept. 30; bam.org.)
Photo

The director Anne Kauffman has described the playwright Amy Herzog as an inexhaustible excavator.
Anyone familiar with Ms. Herzogs work is likely to agree.
In plays like After the Revolution and 4000 Miles, Ms. Herzog has dug deep into the terrain where generations intersect, in ways political as well as personal, with a perspective as cleareyed as it is compassionate.
Expect the same traits to be in evidence in her latest offering, Mary Jane, which opens on Monday, Sept. 25, at the New York Theater Workshop.
Staged last spring at the Yale Repertory Theater, Mary Jane is a portrait of a mothers relationship with her chronically ill young son, and of the women she meets in dealing with a life that seems suspended in a state of crisis.
The vibrant actress Carrie Coon (of The Leftovers) takes the title role.
Ms. Kauffman, with whom Ms. Herzog collaborated on Belleville four years ago, directs.
(New York Theater Workshop; nytw.org.)
Photo

Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy.
What do you think of it?
What else are you interested in?
Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
Guilty Associations?
As the special investigator Robert Mueller presses on with his investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 campaign, reports have surfaced that Paul Manafort, then the Trump campaign chairman, offered to privately brief a Russian billionaire on the status of his primary campaign.
Trevor Noah doesnt think theres any way to put a positive spin on that one.
Manafort offered to brief a Russian oligarch on the campaign that he was running for Trump.
Now, does that prove he did anything wrong?
No, but ask yourself this: When has the phrase Russian oligarch ever been a good thing?
Its like the phrase a cappella concert, or unmarked van, or homemade condom.
TREVOR NOAH

Mr. Noah also commented on a Croatian billboard that wryly commented on Melania Trumps English skills.
Some news from Croatia: Billboards that featured U.S. first lady Melania Trump and the slogan Just imagine how far you can go with a little bit of English have been taken down after her lawyer threatened to sue.
Just imagine how far you can go with a little bit of English.
I cant believe they put that up there with Melanias picture  it should have been a picture of Donald.
TREVOR NOAH

Kimmel Keeps Up the Heat on Cassidy

Jimmy Kimmel dressed down Senator Bill Cassidy for the third day in a row over the senators bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
But Mr. Kimmel rejected the suggestion that he ought to have Mr. Cassidy back on his show for a follow-up interview.
We spoke, he told me one thing, he did another  are we supposed to do that again?
Some people tell me I should give him the benefit of the doubt, and you know what, I do give him the benefit of the doubt: I doubt all the benefits he claims are part of the new health care bill.
JIMMY KIMMEL All of these groups populated by doctors say this health care bill is bad.
Theyre against it.
We havent seen this many people come forward to speak out against a bill since Cosby.
JIMMY KIMMEL

Sooo Lucky

On Late Night, Seth Meyers drew from the well that keeps on giving: Mr. Trumps Twitter feed.
He quoted from a tweet Mr. Trump sent on Wednesday weighing in on the upcoming Senate election in Alabama.
President Trump tweeted yesterday, quote, Alabama is sooo lucky to have a candidate like Big Luther Strange for the special Senate election to fill Attorney General Jeff Sessionss seat.
But look how he spelled so.
Hey, man, anything more than one o means youre being sarcastic.
But you must know that  youre soooo smart.
SETH MEYERS

The Punchiest Punchlines (7-Eleven Edition)

Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer said he never knowingly lied to the American people.
He then said, Dammit, I just lied again, I cant help myself.
CONAN OBRIEN Some 7-Eleven stores are now offering what they are calling restaurant-quality dishes.
Hey, we should try that!
said Olive Garden.
SETH MEYERS The U.N. General Assembly is still going on.
And, did you see this?
North Koreas foreign minister said Trumps speech sounded like a dog barking.
Trump didnt respond because he was chasing after a fire truck.
JIMMY FALLON

The Bits Worth Watching

Strange teachers.
And Derek.
Stephen Colbert impersonated Lawrence ODonnell, the MSNBC host who had an on-set meltdown over technical difficulties.
Enjoy the Weekend

Next week kicks off with a visit by Madonna to the The Tonight Show.
In the meantime, make the most of the first weekend of fall.
Well talk to you next week.
Also, Check This Out

Photo

Mr. Kimmel isnt the first late-show host to ditch the jokes for some earnest advocacy.
The centerpiece of the week was a new art fair at Station Berlin, a postindustrial exhibition venue.
Art Berlin, featured 112 galleries, almost 80 percent of which were based in Germany.
The event, owned and co-organized by the owners of the Art Cologne, replaced the gallery-run Art Berlin Contemporary (ABC), which for the previous nine years had struggled to market large-scale artists projects within the commercial context of a fair.
Photo

Theres a perception that people will come to a fair in Berlin, but they wont buy, said London-based Pippy Houldsworth, one of just five exhibitors with galleries in Britain or the United States.
In the current global climate, some dealers were nervous about trying a new fair.
Ms. Houldsworth said that Art Berlins owners had managed to bring in collectors from Germanys more affluent Rhineland region, as well as from Belgium and the Netherlands.
The fair attracted 33,000 visitors, according to the organizers.
They wanted to bring in a new audience, and that did happen, Ms. Houldsworth said.
She said she had made five sales, including the 2017 painting Yellow Siller, by Uwe Henneken  a Berlin-based artist much preoccupied with Shamanism, who was also on show at the Sammlung Boros private museum.
Priced at 12,000 euros, or about $14,400, it sold to a German collector.
The organizers made a deliberate effort to keep the costs relatively low, enabling younger galleries to show works by emerging names at approachable prices.
The Berlin dealer Katharina Maria Raab said smaller booths had cost exhibitors about 4,000.
Ms. Raab, who opened her gallery in 2015, was showing a concrete and steel relief, inscribed in Arabic Do you want freedom?
by Manaf Halbouni, a Syrian-born artist based in Dresden.
In February, Mr. Halbouni stirred controversy in that city with his sculpture Monument, made from three upturned buses, like barricades in war-torn Aleppo.
His much smaller piece at the fair, whose exposed barbed wire and concrete stressing rods had a special resonance in postwar Berlin, sold to another German buyer, priced at 7,000.
It was so much better compared to last year, a local collector, Gudrun Wurlitzer, said of Art Berlin.
You didnt know if ABC was an exhibition or a fair.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Wurlitzer and her husband, Bernd, were also part of the Berlin Art Week program, showing works by younger artists at their Pied--Terre Collection in a communist-era apartment block featured in the 2006 movie The Lives of Others.
A silk-and-wool carpet, The Empty Space, designed by the Berlin artist Sultan Acar attracted admirers.
Woven in Nepal in 2016, the carpet lyrically evokes a vacant rectangle of pavement in Berlin on which an equestrian statue of Kaiser Friedrich III once stood.
Photo

It is available for sale, priced at 25,000, on the Wurlitzers Artitious website, typifying the more fluid relationship evolving in Berlin among artists, collectors and commerce.
There are two art scenes in Berlin, Ms. Wurlitzer said.
There is an official one, and there is another scene in which artists hold pop-up shows, share exhibitions and self-market themselves.
Were trying to create an online forum which brings both scenes closer.
Berlin remains a city of artists.
The citys reputation for being poor but sexy might be under threat from gentrification, mass tourism and the gig economy, but about 8,000 artists are still registered with the citys specialist social insurance plan, the Knstlersozialkasse, according to Ute Weiss Leder, a spokeswoman for the Professional Association of Berlin Visual Artists.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What can yet another contemporary art fair do for them?
Not much, said Marta Gnyp, an art writer and adviser, who lives in the city.
I wonder whether Berlin needs an international fair, she said.
She pointed out that Gallery Weekend was already very successful at attracting foreign collectors.
With the busy international art calendar, they wont visit Berlin twice a year, she said, adding that she thought Art Berlin could work well as a more modestly focused regional fair.
Over-ambition has become something of a hot topic in the German art scene after Documenta14, the sprawling contemporary exhibition, ran into financial trouble and required a government bailout.
And with the upper levels of the international art market becoming increasingly homogenized, there is growing appreciation of regional events  if it is a region where something interesting is happening.
In all the internationally oriented fairs like Art Basel and Frieze, you see the big names you find everywhere, said Mr. Feuerle, the globe-trotting Berlin museum owner.
I dont see too much local art from the country, which to me is boring, as I come to see and explore something different and new.
Berlin is a city with plenty of artists trying to say something new.
Art Berlin could gain the reputation as the fair to discover them.
Basquiats tastes were eclectic: Curtis Mayfield, Donna Summer, Bach, Beethoven, David Byrne, Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Aretha Franklin, Public Image Ltd.s Metal Box album.
And he had his favorite tracks that he would just play and play, Ms. Adler said.
Bowies Low, definitely.
And the second side of Heroes.
The influence of music was huge.
Basquiat eventually amassed a collection of more than 3,000 albums.
It spanned blues, classical, soul, disco and even zydeco, a type of popular music from southern Louisiana.
He also made his own music: as the leader of Gray, an experimental art noise quartet; as the producer of the single Beat Bop; and as a D.J.
at venues like the scene-setting Mudd Club in TriBeCa.
Photo

Basquiat made frequent references in his work to the musicians he most admired.
He paid homage to Parker, whose nickname was Bird, in paintings such as Bird on Money, Charles the First and CPRKR.
Max Roach was a nod to the vision and style of the jazz drummer of that name.
And in King Zulu, a masterly painting inspired by the history of early jazz that occupies a prominent place at the Barbican, Basquiat summoned the memory of the trumpeters Bix Beiderbecke, Bunk Johnson and Howard McGhee.
In the center of the paintings intense blue background, a face in minstrel makeup stares out, the image culled from a photograph of Louis Armstrong disguised as a Zulu king at Mardi Gras in New Orleans in 1949.
Basquiat was especially devoted to bebop, the restlessly inventive genre typified by the likes of Parker, Davis, Ornette Coleman and Thelonious Monk.
Basquiats love of bebop fueled his art, said Eleanor Nairne, co-curator of Boom for Real.
Photo

Bebop was quite an intellectual movement, she said.
It was also quite iconoclastic in wanting to break away from these older jazz harmonies.
That idea of a kind of rupture, and of these musicians who were very young, vibrant powerful forces; there were lots of parallels he found with his own work and life.
Basquiat, who died of a drug overdose at 27, attained dizzying heights during his short career.
His first sale, the painting Cadillac Moon, was to Debbie Harry, the frontwoman of Blondie, in 1981.
She paid $200.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Within months, his works were selling for tens of thousands of dollars.
By his early 20s, he had made his first million.
Yet Basquiat was discomforted by success.
He was acutely conscious of his place as one of very few African-Americans in a predominantly white art world, where he was regarded by some as little more than an interloper.
The eclectic taste of Jean-Michel Basquiat

The American art critic Hilton Kramer once described Basquiat as a talentless hustler, street-smart but otherwise invincibly ignorant, who used his youth, his looks, his skin color and his abundant sex appeal to win fame.
According to Ms. Nairne, Basquiat was hugely, uncomfortably, constantly aware of the racist ways he was constantly being pigeonholed.
And he found a telling parallel between his position and that of his jazz heroes.
These are musicians who are, in one sphere of their lives, incredibly celebrated, Ms. Nairne said.
And in other aspects, on a daily basis and in the most banal terms, consistently reduced to the color of their skins.
They are literally having to use the back entrance of clubs.
Theres no way you can divorce their music from their treatment in society.
There was a lot of identification in there.
Ultimately, Basquiat felt more at home in downtown New York.
He had first come to prominence in the late 70s as a graffiti artist with a SAMO tag, scrawling the streets of Lower Manhattan with sardonic and elusively poetic maxims: SAMO for the so-called avant-garde; Samo as an end 2 the neon fantasy called life.
Photo

The downtown scene was a famously antic fusion of emergent art trends, street style, graffiti, trendsetting nightspots like the Mudd Club and Area, and upstart musical genres like New Wave and hip-hop.
Its flourishing took place against a wider backdrop of MTV, sampling, scratching, semiotics and postmodernist theory; a time when the creation and dissemination of culture seemed an increasingly fluid, boundary-free process.
It was all merging, Ms. Adler said.
For Basquiat, it was a period of discovery.
The multifaceted nature of the scene gave Basquiat license to crisscross artistic forms on the way to developing his own style.
He performed poetry onstage and produced the a mesmeric hip-hop Beat Bop, by the graffiti artist Rammellzee and the rapper K-Rob, that remains a genre classic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the band Gray, he played the synthesizer and the clarinet, and made Steve Reich-style sound experiments, looping snatches of audio on a reel-to-reel tape recorder.
The group performed only sporadically but drew admirers including Mr. Byrne and the hip-hop pioneer Fab 5 Freddy.
An Interview Magazine review described them as an easy listening bebop industrial sound effects lounge ensemble.
Basquiat pulled out of Gray in 1981, when painting started to command his attention in a serious way.
But music still remained a significant marker of his creative achievement.
David Bowie, writing after Basquiats death, hailed him as a kindred spirit whose sensibility belonged as much to rock as to art.
His work relates to rock in ways that very few other visual artists get near, the musician noted.
He seemed to digest the frenetic flow of passing image and experience, put them through some kind of internal reorganization and dress the canvas with this resultant network of chance.
Basquiat himself was less forthcoming.
I dont know how to describe my work, he once reflected.
Its like asking Miles, How does your horn sound?
Photo

Lady Gaga sheds the glamour but retains her chart-topping talent in a new documentary.
And the final season of the Canadian cop drama 19-2 arrives on Acorn TV.
Whats Streaming

GAGA: FIVE FOOT TWO (2017) on Netflix.
The director Chris Moukarbel presents this new portrait of the pop artist Lady Gaga, juxtaposing the physical and emotional hurdles she faces backstage with her seemingly effortless performances.
The film captures her working on material that would make up her 2016 album Joanne, and chronicles her preparation for her 2017 Super Bowl halftime show.
Five Foot Two depicts an artist and idol in a peculiar isolation, Glenn Kenny wrote in The New York Times.
Even when other people are in the frame, Gaga often seems sadly but necessarily alone.
EAT DRINK MAN WOMAN (1994) on iTunes, Amazon and Fandor.
Mr. Chu (Sihung Lung), a prominent Taiwanese chef, is a master in the kitchen, but clueless when it comes to bonding with this three daughters.
Having lost his wife 12 years ago, the downcast Mr. Chu leads a life without spice, staying home to cook his sumptuous (yet often flawed) meals and tending to errands.
But as romance takes over his daughters lives, their father is forced to cope with their adulthood and rebellion against tradition.
Directed by Ang Lee (The Wedding Banquet), this comedys thoughts about its characters dont go much deeper than the bottom of a soup bowl, Janet Maslin wrote in The Times, but those thoughts are still expressed with affection, wit and an abundance of fascinating cooking tips.
Photo

19-2 on Acorn TV.
A tragic turn of events forces two Montreal police officers, Nick (Adrian Holmes) and Ben (Jared Keeso), to rely on each other in the fourth and final season of this cop drama.
As the partners avenge the death of Nicks sister, they are drawn into a dangerous gang war that tests their relationship and threatens the whole squad.
Neil Genzlinger wrote in The Times, There are tropes in 19-2  the police genre is too crowded for there not to be  but the writing is sublime, turning each episode into a sort of tone poem, a slice of urban and police life carefully observed.
KIKI (2017) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu.
The dancers in Madonnas Vogue music video and the drag performers of the Paris Is Burning documentary brought what was known as the ballroom scene to mainstream attention in the 1990s.
Now, an activist community of L.G.B.T.Q.
youth have revived ballroom with the artistic subculture they call the Kiki scene.
The Swedish director Sara Jordeno and the ballroom runway performer Twiggy Pucci Garon follow Harlems gay and transgender youth  many of whom grapple with homelessness, illness or prejudice from their families  as they bring their empowering Kiki balls to New Yorks Christopher Street pier.
Whats on TV

Photo

BATTLESTAR GALACTICA MARATHON 8 p.m. on Syfy.
This anniversary marathon begins with the 2003 mini-series Battlestar Galactica, adapted from the 1978 original starring Lorne Greene.
The first season of the Emmy Award-winning sequel airs Sept. 23, and all 76 episodes of the mini-series will be available on demand for 30 days.
Photo

Two weeks before a much-anticipated exhibition featuring Chinese conceptual artists opens at the Guggenheim, the museum is facing intense pressure to exclude one piece of art: a video of dogs trying to fight one another.
The museum tried to tamp down the criticism on Thursday night, announcing in a statement that the piece, Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, would stay in the exhibition even though the work may be upsetting.
The seven-minute clip shows four pairs of American pit bulls charging each other but unable to touch because they are running on nonmotorized treadmills.
Real dogs were used when the piece was first shown in 2003 in Beijing, but the Guggenheim will feature a video of it.
Critics and animal-rights supporters have called it animal abuse and started a petition encouraging the museum to remove it.
The curators of the exhibition hope that viewers will consider why the artists produced it and what they may be saying about the social conditions of globalization and the complex nature of the world we share, the Guggenheim said in a statement posted on its website on Thursday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The three-month show, Art and China After 1989, opens Oct. 6 in the New York City museum and will feature about 150 pieces of experimental art.
Many works are deliberately shocking, including the signature piece, Theater of the World, which features live insects and reptiles scurrying under an overhead lamp.
Photo

Works by Shakespeare arent counted.
But works about Shakespeare are.
A survey by American Theater magazine shows that Shakespeare in Love, the 2014 play about young Wills formative years, adapted by Lee Hall from the wildly successful 1998 film version, will be the most produced play in the United States during the 2017-18 theatrical season.
The play, first staged in London, will have 15 productions across the country, including in Atlanta, Boston and Cleveland.
It has not yet made it to New York City.
The survey, which covered 1,917 productions planned by 380 theaters, also showed that Lauren Gunderson, the author of I and You and The Book of Will, will be the most-produced playwright, with 27 productions, including 8 co-writing credits.
In a statement, Ms. Gunderson said that she hoped it would be an encouraging and motivating moment for women in theater.
She added: Stories by and about women can and must be produced across the country to complete the deep generational narrative that our art form so uniquely puts forth.
American Theater, which has been compiling these annual lists since the 1994-95 season, excludes from its tally plays by Shakespeare (108 this season) and holiday shows like A Christmas Carol (42 coming up).
For the first time, the magazine will celebrate the announcement of its top ten lists with a live-streamed event at the Drama Book Shop in New York, which will feature Ms. Gunderson among other guests.
Other plays that made the most-produced top ten include Lisa Krons Fun Home (12 productions); Simon Stephenss The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time (9); and two Jane Austen entries, Miss Bennet: Christmas at Pemberley, by Ms. Gunderson and Margot Melcon (8), as well as Sense and Sensibility (8).
Runners-up on the most-produced playwrights list include Ayad Akhtar, who topped both lists last year with his Pulitzer Prize-winning play Disgraced, and a few more venerable figures: Tennessee Williams, August Wilson, Eugene ONeill and Oscar Wilde.
And no work falls more clearly into the art-as-evidence category than a sculpture by Camilo Ontiveros in the exhibition called Home  So Different, So Appealing: Art from the Americas Since 1957 at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
Placed at the beginning of the show, its an assemblage made from the personal effects  bedding, clothing, books and a television set precariously piled on sawhorses  of Juan Manuel Montes, a 23-year-old Mexican man who had lived in the United States since he was 9 and who was deported in February, well in advance of President Trumps move to end DACA.
Whats new in the news is really old history.
Photo

Home, one of the stronger shows in LA/LA, was co-organized by Chon A. Noriega, director of the Chicano Studies Research Center at the University of California, Los Angeles, which has made significant loans to other exhibitions on the roster.
One, at the Autry Museum of the American West, is a vivid, tip-of-the-iceberg survey of photographs from the Mexican-American newspaper-turned-magazine La Raza, which, from 1967 to 1977, served as a mouthpiece for the Chicano Civil Rights Movement, documenting the local Latino communitys antiwar protests in the 1960s, its effort to secure work and education, and its persecution at the hands of police.
The Chicano Movement, el Movimiento, was one of the great social justice campaigns of late 20th America.
And LA/LA, at least begins to give it its due in this exhibition, and in another called Axis Mundo: Queer Networks in Chicano LA.
Installed at two West Hollywood spaces, the MOCA Pacific Design Center and ONE Gallery, the second show takes its name from a single figure, Edmundo Meza (1955-1985), known as Mundo, who collaborated with many other artists in an LGBTQ Latino network in the 1970s and 1980s.
That whole punk-activist scene is badly in need of documenting.
The process starts with this scrappy, bits-and-pieces overview, and its a moving experience to see the fragile, reliquary traces of vital young artists, some still active, others long gone, at the beginning of their careers.
Photo

Youll find other, older, and far grander relics at the Getty Center in Golden Kingdoms: Luxury and Legacy in the Ancient Americas, a resplendent ensemble of gold-work, jade carvings and textiles dating from 1000 B.C.
to the 16th century.
This is a display on the classic masterpiece exhibition model  itll go to the Met in February  and a knockout.
You can readily see why the first Europeans arriving in South and Central America started packing up what they found there and shipping it home, while introducing their own art to the so-called New World.
None of these ideas would have improved as many millions of lives as a more extensive subway system, but they would have made the city a little more stylish.
Some ideas that never stood a chance are still magical to think about.
Norman Bel Geddes in 1932 proposed floating an airstrip in New York Harbor, where it would rotate to follow favorable winds and connect to Battery Park by an underwater moving sidewalk; in 49, Bel Geddes also designed a stadium for the Dodgers with an ahead-of-its-time retractable roof and, a decade before AstroTurf, synthetic grass.
A dreamy undated watercolor by Charles Lamb is just one example of the many times people have imagined the Cartesian street grid continuing up a z-axis to connect mammoth buildings with aerial walkways.
(In keeping with these architecture-as-make-believe lines is the commissioning of a silvery-gray childrens bouncy castle for the museums atrium in the shape of the unbuilt Westinghouse Pavilion that Eliot Noyes designed for the 1964 Worlds Fair.)
Photo

Other far-fetched ideas are hair-raising.
A 1924 issue of Popular Science included a plan to reduce traffic and create more parking spaces by filling in and paving over the East River.
A decade later, Modern Mechanix had a similar plan for the Hudson.
In the early 60s, Buckminster Fuller, Shoji Sadao and June Jordan proposed to double Harlems housing stock with 15 massive piles, raised on top of existing buildings, that would have looked like cooling towers from some Brobdingnagian nuclear power plant.
But over all, whether or not any particular lost ambition is to ones taste, the more singular it is  the more completely it expresses a totalizing aesthetic vision like that of Wright or Fuller or Robert Moses  the more incongruous it looks against the noisy background of everyone elses.
(In this way the exhibition designer Christian Wassmanns busy hanging is true to its material.)
The unfinished fantasy of New York City, this reminds us all, is of a thousand competing ideas canceling one another out  with envy, greed, destruction and lethargy  and arriving half by accident at a complicated compromise that everyone can more or less live with, and even come to love.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In 1964, on the occasion of the Worlds Fair, hundreds of workers replicated every one of the citys nearly 900,000 buildings in miniature, combining them into what became the unforgettable centerpiece of the Queens Museums permanent collection, the 9,335-square-foot panorama of the City of New York.
This year, a small team of Columbia architecture students, under the direction of Joshua Jordan, made glowing white models of a number of this shows forgotten projects to add on to that panorama.
Not one but two tall monoliths now overlook the harbor: William Zeckendorfs rooftop airport covers a substantial fraction of Manhattans western edge, and I.M.
Peis pinch-waisted hyperboloid rises a hundred stories above Grand Central Terminal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But when the show is over, theyll be lifted right out again.
Basquiats tastes were eclectic: Curtis Mayfield, Donna Summer, Bach, Beethoven, David Byrne, Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Aretha Franklin, Public Image Ltd.s Metal Box album.
And he had his favorite tracks that he would just play and play, Ms. Adler said.
Bowies Low, definitely.
And the second side of Heroes.
The influence of music was huge.
Basquiat eventually amassed a collection of more than 3,000 albums.
It spanned blues, classical, soul, disco and even zydeco, a type of popular music from southern Louisiana.
He also made his own music: as the leader of Gray, an experimental art noise quartet; as the producer of the single Beat Bop; and as a D.J.
at venues like the scene-setting Mudd Club in TriBeCa.
Photo

Basquiat made frequent references in his work to the musicians he most admired.
He paid homage to Parker, whose nickname was Bird, in paintings such as Bird on Money, Charles the First and CPRKR.
Max Roach was a nod to the vision and style of the jazz drummer of that name.
And in King Zulu, a masterly painting inspired by the history of early jazz that occupies a prominent place at the Barbican, Basquiat summoned the memory of the trumpeters Bix Beiderbecke, Bunk Johnson and Howard McGhee.
In the center of the paintings intense blue background, a face in minstrel makeup stares out, the image culled from a photograph of Louis Armstrong disguised as a Zulu king at Mardi Gras in New Orleans in 1949.
Basquiat was especially devoted to bebop, the restlessly inventive genre typified by the likes of Parker, Davis, Ornette Coleman and Thelonious Monk.
Basquiats love of bebop fueled his art, said Eleanor Nairne, co-curator of Boom for Real.
Photo

Bebop was quite an intellectual movement, she said.
It was also quite iconoclastic in wanting to break away from these older jazz harmonies.
That idea of a kind of rupture, and of these musicians who were very young, vibrant powerful forces; there were lots of parallels he found with his own work and life.
Basquiat, who died of a drug overdose at 27, attained dizzying heights during his short career.
His first sale, the painting Cadillac Moon, was to Debbie Harry, the frontwoman of Blondie, in 1981.
She paid $200.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Within months, his works were selling for tens of thousands of dollars.
By his early 20s, he had made his first million.
Yet Basquiat was discomforted by success.
He was acutely conscious of his place as one of very few African-Americans in a predominantly white art world, where he was regarded by some as little more than an interloper.
The eclectic taste of Jean-Michel Basquiat

The American art critic Hilton Kramer once described Basquiat as a talentless hustler, street-smart but otherwise invincibly ignorant, who used his youth, his looks, his skin color and his abundant sex appeal to win fame.
According to Ms. Nairne, Basquiat was hugely, uncomfortably, constantly aware of the racist ways he was constantly being pigeonholed.
And he found a telling parallel between his position and that of his jazz heroes.
These are musicians who are, in one sphere of their lives, incredibly celebrated, Ms. Nairne said.
And in other aspects, on a daily basis and in the most banal terms, consistently reduced to the color of their skins.
They are literally having to use the back entrance of clubs.
Theres no way you can divorce their music from their treatment in society.
There was a lot of identification in there.
Ultimately, Basquiat felt more at home in downtown New York.
He had first come to prominence in the late 70s as a graffiti artist with a SAMO tag, scrawling the streets of Lower Manhattan with sardonic and elusively poetic maxims: SAMO for the so-called avant-garde; Samo as an end 2 the neon fantasy called life.
Photo

The downtown scene was a famously antic fusion of emergent art trends, street style, graffiti, trendsetting nightspots like the Mudd Club and Area, and upstart musical genres like New Wave and hip-hop.
Its flourishing took place against a wider backdrop of MTV, sampling, scratching, semiotics and postmodernist theory; a time when the creation and dissemination of culture seemed an increasingly fluid, boundary-free process.
It was all merging, Ms. Adler said.
For Basquiat, it was a period of discovery.
The multifaceted nature of the scene gave Basquiat license to crisscross artistic forms on the way to developing his own style.
He performed poetry onstage and produced the a mesmeric hip-hop Beat Bop, by the graffiti artist Rammellzee and the rapper K-Rob, that remains a genre classic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the band Gray, he played the synthesizer and the clarinet, and made Steve Reich-style sound experiments, looping snatches of audio on a reel-to-reel tape recorder.
The group performed only sporadically but drew admirers including Mr. Byrne and the hip-hop pioneer Fab 5 Freddy.
An Interview Magazine review described them as an easy listening bebop industrial sound effects lounge ensemble.
Basquiat pulled out of Gray in 1981, when painting started to command his attention in a serious way.
But music still remained a significant marker of his creative achievement.
David Bowie, writing after Basquiats death, hailed him as a kindred spirit whose sensibility belonged as much to rock as to art.
His work relates to rock in ways that very few other visual artists get near, the musician noted.
He seemed to digest the frenetic flow of passing image and experience, put them through some kind of internal reorganization and dress the canvas with this resultant network of chance.
Basquiat himself was less forthcoming.
I dont know how to describe my work, he once reflected.
Its like asking Miles, How does your horn sound?
Some Cartoons That Missed the Cut

The New Yorker is highly selective of the cartoons it publishes.
Here are cartoons that didnt make it.
The curators have selected nearly 150 pieces of sometimes shocking, often scruffy experimental art  video, installation, photography, performance  that questions authority, and uses animals (on screen) to highlight the violence of humankind.
(Theater of the World caused a stir in Vancouver in 2007 when Mr. Huang included scorpions and tarantulas; he withdrew the piece from the show there rather than comply with requests to remove those particular creatures.)
Photo

The emphasis at the Guggenheim is on conceptual art.
There are few oil paintings, and none of the flashy visages of big faces of the political pop school of the 1990s and early 2000s that fetched skyhigh prices at auction.
We felt the whole concept of contemporary Chinese art needed to be exploded, said Alexandra Munroe, the lead curator.
The chronology covers two distinct periods: the political repression after Tiananmen and the economic boom in the 2000s.
In the aftermath of the protests, the government banned installation art.
That provoked conceptual artists to stage furtive shows in anonymous apartments.
Artists struggled.
Many escaped abroad, came back, went out again.
There were almost no galleries and little money to be made.
By 2001, when China joined the World Trade Organization, opening its doors to the global economy, the government understood that art could be Chinas calling card.
Money poured into places like the China Academy of Art in Hangzhou.
Commercial galleries popped up in Beijing and Shanghai.
The 2008 Beijing Olympic Games were staged as Chinas coming out party.
Many artists dismissed the celebration, preferring to concentrate on government corruption and the demolition of charming old Beijing.
But the Games did help to open the eyes of outsiders to China and its art scene.
Soon after the opening at the Guggenheim, the Communist Party will hold its national congress in Beijing, a conclave set to anoint the current president, Xi Jinping, for a second term.
The uninhibited avant-garde art at the Guggenheim will offer a jagged contrast to Mr. Xis stiff internet censorship, and repression of human rights that keeps some of Chinas artists  including perhaps the best known, Ai Weiwei  from living and working in their homeland.
Photo

Only nine female artists appear in the show, a poor representation that the curators say they are acutely aware of.
One of the nine, though, is Xiao Lu, who achieved notoriety when she fired a pellet gun at a sculpture at a Beijing exhibition in 1989.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The few works by women is a reflection of the male-dominated government-run art academies of the period, Ms. Munroe said.
The teachers were mostly men who wielded disproportionate influence with their power to dole out studio spaces, video equipment and paints.
Most of the students were men.
Now some classes are evenly split between men and women.
That source of livelihood was closed to a privileged few, and the few were men exclusively, Ms. Munroe said.
The good news is that it has changed.
Some of the artists in Beijing and Hangzhou looked back at their work in the show, the atmosphere during those two decades and how they and the country have changed.
Peng Yu and Sun Yuan

They are known as the bad couple of Chinas art.
Peng Yu, 43, and Sun Yuan, 45, her husband, work in adjacent studios in Beijings thriving 798 Art District.
Three heavy-duty motorcycles are parked outside Mr. Suns door.
Inside, skeletons of a lion, a boar, a griffin and a few other animals decorate the shelves.
Ms. Pengs space is smaller, more spartan and contains a bare-bones kitchen.
In 2000, they attracted attention with a performance piece, Body Link, at a show in Shanghai.
Both artists took part in a transfusion of their own blood into the corpse of Siamese twins.
The piece was created just after they decided to get married and was a special kind of coming together, Ms. Peng said.
Photo

Ms. Peng revels in her brazen politically incorrect attitudes.
The fuss about too few female artists in the Guggenheim show was unjustified.
Personally I think female artists in China are not as hard-working as male artists and their art is not as good as male artists, she said.
The couples work at the Guggenheim is one of their less radical pieces.
The seven-minute video shows four pairs of American pit bulls tethered to eight wooden treadmills.
The camera closes in on the animals as they face each other, running at high speed.
The dogs are prevented from touching one another, a frustrating experience for animals trained to fight.
The dogs get wearier and wearier, their muscles more and more prominent, and their mouths increasingly salivate.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The piece was first shown with the actual dogs appearing before an audience at the Today Museum in Beijing in 2003.
The piece was so special, it stood out, Ms. Peng said.
The art critics didnt know what to say.
Xu Bing

Xu Bing, 62, a small wiry figure with long black tangled hair and rimless glasses, is a veteran of Chinas conceptual art movement.
Early on, he showed that Chinese artists could be at least as provocative as their Western compatriots.
His work, A Case Study of Transference, from 1994 illustrates his fascination with the ugly and the primitive versus the beautiful and the classical.
Photo

The original version of the work featured two live pigs  a boar and a sow  having sex in front of audiences at one of the early informal art spaces in Beijing.
The backs of the pigs were stamped with gibberish composed from the Roman alphabet and invented Chinese characters.
The Guggenheim drew the line on live pigs in the museum, and settled for a video of the Beijing performance, said Philip Tinari, a guest curator, from the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art in Beijing.
Mr. Xu, who has lived in New York for nearly 20 years, spent time on pig farms during the Cultural Revolution.
Why pigs and calligraphy?
Animals are completely uncivilized and Chinese characters are the expression of supreme civilization, he said.
His second work in the show deals with 9/11.
Mr. Xu lives in a townhouse in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and when the planes hit the World Trade Center, he watched from across the river.
A few days later, he went to City Hall and scooped up dust and packed it into a plastic bag.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On the eve of the Guggenheim show he plans to blow the dust from a leaf-catching machine into a small sealed room.
The dust will fall on a stencil of a Zen Buddhist stanza.
Of all the artists in the show, Mr. Xu perhaps best straddles China and the West.
He was a young teacher at the Art Academy in Beijing during the protests at Tiananmen.
His students created the green foam and gypsum Goddess of Democracy that became the protests symbol for freedom.
Photo

After June 1989, the cultural world became silent, everything became muted, my pieces were not allowed to be shown, he said over Italian espresso brewed in his studio kitchen in Beijing.
He fled in 1990.
In the United States, the art schools welcomed him.
He moved to New York in 1992 and in 1999 he won a MacArthur Fellowship.
The relationship between China and the world has changed, he said.
After 1989, artists stepped out into the world and they worshiped Western culture.
Now younger artists want to stay more in China.
They get more inspiration from China, there are more problems to explore.
Yu Hong

When Yu Hong joined the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing in 1984, she was 18 and the only woman among the dozen students in the entering class.
It was after the upheaval of the Cultural Revolution, and the art schools were coming to life after years in the wilderness.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Yu, now one of Chinas most esteemed realist painters, was an instant star.
One of the first assignments for her class was to draw Michelangelos David.
Ms. Yus rendition won first prize.
It is still shown to students more than 20 years later.
Her oil painting in the Guggenheim show is entirely different.
A self-portrait, the canvas shows Ms. Yu, a few years out of art school in the early 1990s, scissors in hand, snipping her own hair.
The back story is intriguing.
Ms. Yu, and her husband, Liu Xiaodong, also an artist, were acting in a low budget movie, called The Days, about the couples true-life story as impoverished art teachers in a backwater province in northeast China.
One of the scenes included Ms. Yu cutting her own hair.
The movie was too bleak for the government censors and has never been officially released in China.
Photo

The self-portrait is part of a historical series she began in 1999 called Witness to Growth, in which she paints herself at the various stages of Chinas economic growth, juxtaposed against a photograph of the period.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The curators could have chosen a more dramatic work from Ms. Yu.
A black and white self-portrait on the wall of her studio in Beijing shows Ms. Yu among the protesters near Tiananmen Square before the tanks rolled in.
Adjacent to the canvas is a photograph of the crackdowns aftermath.
Dark smoke hangs over the square.
The demonstrators tent city is demolished.
Soldiers are on watch.
But such photographs are banned in China.
A display of the photo overseas would almost certainly draw protests from the Chinese government.
Zhang Peili

A standout work by Zhang Peili, Chinas first video artist, shows a female newscaster on Chinas state television, CCTV, repeating a meaningless screed about water.
The woman, Xing Zhibin, with bouffant hair, and an expressionless middle-aged face from the 1980s and 1990s, was Chinas Walter Cronkite.
Mr. Zhang, 60, was shattered, he said, by the end of the democratic movement at Tiananmen Square.
That left a heavy influence on every Chinese person, and it lasts until today, he said in his small apartment in Hangzhou.
He wanted to find a way to depict the absurdity of the state broadcaster never reporting the monumental event on the square.
Photo

A friend of the artist contacted Ms. Xing and suggested that she read the definition of water many times over.
I lied and let my friend pass on the message that I was doing an education project about water, he said.
I still dont know if she knew that this video of her was actually used for a contemporary art piece.
Mr. Zhang is one of the most influential art teachers in China.
He detects less political restlessness among the new generation of students, who are impressed by the new consumer-driven economy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Still, the huge gap between the rich and the not-so-rich in China is a recipe for future unrest, he said.
But for the moment, he went on: I procrastinate.
Society is procrastinating.
There is a lot to be done to change society but mostly we just skip it and wait.
Kan Xuan

Visitors climb six flights of stairs to reach Kan Xuans studio overlooking the red tiled roof of Beijings ancient Confucius Temple.
On a wooden table rests her laptop and a monitor.
There is little art on the walls and no signs of her video works.
I like video because it disappears, she said.
It doesnt hang around.
Ms. Kans two videos in the show are from 1999, and more personal in style than that of her mentor, Zhang Peili.
The first, Kan Xuan!
catches glimpses of her as she runs through a subway tunnel, weaving in and out among the commuters.
Photo

In the second piece, Post-Sense Sensibility, Ms. Kan surveys an underground art exhibition held in a basement on the outskirts of Beijing.
The show was an exuberant, anything-goes outburst of installation art that surfaced after the sullen post-Tiananmen period.
Ms. Kans hand-held camera captures the outrageous art  pig intestines strung from the ceiling, a stillborn fetus lying next to a human face poking through a bed of ice.
Art lovers crowd around the installations, hungry for a new era of unfettered expression.
The documentary is important for the sake of history, Ms. Kan, 45, said.
But she long ago moved on.
Her more recent video work focuses on the tombs of Chinese emperors and their courtiers.
She has traveled to the far reaches of China, often trekking up mountains to capture the emperors remains.
When I was traveling I told myself: See what you see and feel what you feel.
I have used simple techniques.
Ms. Kan was one of four female artists for the 2007 Venice Biennale but she doesnt care, she said, about gender politics.
Whats more important, she pointed out, was to remain independent of the commercial galleries.
Unable to survive on her creative videos, she has often taken jobs in high-end commercial film production, including filming luxury sports cars on treks from Beijing to northern Italy.
Even though her themes dwell on China, she considers herself an international artist and lives between Beijing and Amsterdam.
I only choose to be in shows where the curators and the artists work hard, she said, whether its Chinese artists or not.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Qiu Zhijie

A vast multipaneled ink on paper map by Qiu Zhijie, one of the pioneers of Chinas contemporary art world, is the only new work in the exhibition.
Over the years, Mr. Qiu has drawn outsized maps that combine fantasy with politics.
The Guggenheim commissioned a map that juxtaposed Chinese and global events with the unfolding contemporary art scene in Beijing and Shanghai.
A master calligrapher, Mr. Qiu, 48, learned the discipline of painting characters as a child.
His spidery writings, in English and Chinese characters, scrawl across the map that traces the torturous path from Mao to Xi Jinping.
Some may see the works style as resembling Saul Steinbergs maps for The New Yorker.
A figure who straddles the establishment and the fringes, Mr. Qiu works in a cavernous studio outside Beijing.
He was still putting finishing touches to the map just weeks before the shows opening.
Coca-Cola back to China, Star Wars, Ronald Reagan, he said, reading out some of the early references.
The map seems politically safe: The Tiananmen Square crackdown is referred to as an incident, buried in small print.
One milestone seems unintentionally pointed in its misspelling.
Reunifiction of HK reads a phrase, a reference to the Chinese governments plans for reunification of Hong Kong with the mainland.
The banner Socialism with Chinese Characteristics is strung across the top of the map, a motif that should please the government.
Mr. Qiu has been criticized in Chinas social media for leading a government-run academy.
A lot of infuriated netizens say I am bribed by the government, he said.
But if we didnt teach in the art institutions how are the younger artists going to be trained?
The variety and rebelliousness of the works from the 90s and the early 2000s were long overdue for exposure at a mainstream Western museum, he said.
The art I see here in Beijing is totally different to what I see in New York, he said.
The big face school of painting gave a fake image of what Chinese art is.
The Guggenheim will correct the image.
The centerpiece of the week was a new art fair at Station Berlin, a postindustrial exhibition venue.
Art Berlin, featured 112 galleries, almost 80 percent of which were based in Germany.
The event, owned and co-organized by the owners of the Art Cologne, replaced the gallery-run Art Berlin Contemporary (ABC), which for the previous nine years had struggled to market large-scale artists projects within the commercial context of a fair.
Photo

Theres a perception that people will come to a fair in Berlin, but they wont buy, said London-based Pippy Houldsworth, one of just five exhibitors with galleries in Britain or the United States.
In the current global climate, some dealers were nervous about trying a new fair.
Ms. Houldsworth said that Art Berlins owners had managed to bring in collectors from Germanys more affluent Rhineland region, as well as from Belgium and the Netherlands.
The fair attracted 33,000 visitors, according to the organizers.
They wanted to bring in a new audience, and that did happen, Ms. Houldsworth said.
She said she had made five sales, including the 2017 painting Yellow Siller, by Uwe Henneken  a Berlin-based artist much preoccupied with Shamanism, who was also on show at the Sammlung Boros private museum.
Priced at 12,000 euros, or about $14,400, it sold to a German collector.
The organizers made a deliberate effort to keep the costs relatively low, enabling younger galleries to show works by emerging names at approachable prices.
The Berlin dealer Katharina Maria Raab said smaller booths had cost exhibitors about 4,000.
Ms. Raab, who opened her gallery in 2015, was showing a concrete and steel relief, inscribed in Arabic Do you want freedom?
by Manaf Halbouni, a Syrian-born artist based in Dresden.
In February, Mr. Halbouni stirred controversy in that city with his sculpture Monument, made from three upturned buses, like barricades in war-torn Aleppo.
His much smaller piece at the fair, whose exposed barbed wire and concrete stressing rods had a special resonance in postwar Berlin, sold to another German buyer, priced at 7,000.
It was so much better compared to last year, a local collector, Gudrun Wurlitzer, said of Art Berlin.
You didnt know if ABC was an exhibition or a fair.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mrs. Wurlitzer and her husband, Bernd, were also part of the Berlin Art Week program, showing works by younger artists at their Pied--Terre Collection in a communist-era apartment block featured in the 2006 movie The Lives of Others.
A silk-and-wool carpet, The Empty Space, designed by the Berlin artist Sultan Acar attracted admirers.
Woven in Nepal in 2016, the carpet lyrically evokes a vacant rectangle of pavement in Berlin on which an equestrian statue of Kaiser Friedrich III once stood.
Photo

It is available for sale, priced at 25,000, on the Wurlitzers Artitious website, typifying the more fluid relationship evolving in Berlin among artists, collectors and commerce.
There are two art scenes in Berlin, Ms. Wurlitzer said.
There is an official one, and there is another scene in which artists hold pop-up shows, share exhibitions and self-market themselves.
Were trying to create an online forum which brings both scenes closer.
Berlin remains a city of artists.
The citys reputation for being poor but sexy might be under threat from gentrification, mass tourism and the gig economy, but about 8,000 artists are still registered with the citys specialist social insurance plan, the Knstlersozialkasse, according to Ute Weiss Leder, a spokeswoman for the Professional Association of Berlin Visual Artists.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What can yet another contemporary art fair do for them?
Not much, said Marta Gnyp, an art writer and adviser, who lives in the city.
I wonder whether Berlin needs an international fair, she said.
She pointed out that Gallery Weekend was already very successful at attracting foreign collectors.
With the busy international art calendar, they wont visit Berlin twice a year, she said, adding that she thought Art Berlin could work well as a more modestly focused regional fair.
Over-ambition has become something of a hot topic in the German art scene after Documenta14, the sprawling contemporary exhibition, ran into financial trouble and required a government bailout.
And with the upper levels of the international art market becoming increasingly homogenized, there is growing appreciation of regional events  if it is a region where something interesting is happening.
In all the internationally oriented fairs like Art Basel and Frieze, you see the big names you find everywhere, said Mr. Feuerle, the globe-trotting Berlin museum owner.
I dont see too much local art from the country, which to me is boring, as I come to see and explore something different and new.
Berlin is a city with plenty of artists trying to say something new.
Art Berlin could gain the reputation as the fair to discover them.
Additional pieces include Memorial Wall (fall), a stretch of chain-link fence festooned with red leaf-shapes that evoke room fresheners, and Lady train set, a large painted wood version of the perky young neighbor, named Lady, from the Thomas & Friends series.
Her cheerfulness seems poignantly out of place.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

ROBERTA SMITH

Photo

Mary Heilmann

Through Oct 28.
Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd Street, Manhattan; 212-570-1739, craigstarr.com.
In the end, all art is Process Art.
The first and last things you see in an artwork are the materials and methods with which it is made.
This is nowhere more evident than in painting, which is essentially the history of its changing surfaces and techniques.
Jackson Pollocks drip paintings made process conspicuous and within a decade his influence was epidemic, especially in three dimensions.
When the term Process Art was coined in the early 1970s, it generally referred to sculpture and installation art, thanks to artists like Allan Kaprow, Richard Serra, Keith Sonnier and Eva Hesse.
But a few dissented and made process paintings, including Jennifer Bartlett, Harriet Korman, Lois Lane and Mary Heilmann, who from 1975 to 1978, pared down the medium to the red, yellow and blue abstractions presented in an adamant, invigorating exhibition at Craig F. Starr Gallery.
After studying painting and ceramics and trying her hand at sculpture in the late 1960s, Ms. Heilmann, then based in San Francisco, returned to painting but stayed very much in the Process Art game.
The group of 13 compact, blazing works on display here show her hitting her stride.
Her exclusive use of primary colors offhandedly challenged Mondrian and Barnett Newman.
Her thick, boxy canvases were object-like and sculptural, and her technique relates to glazing ceramics, as three bowls by the artist attest here.
Her compositions are mostly fields of color with contrasting bands at their edges, blue within yellow or red and vice versa; some of the bands are brushy, others hard-edge.
The results are bold and obvious, like flags, easy-peasy you might say.
But they are also magical and mysterious, especially if you try to figure them out.
Which colors are on top, which underneath?
Which layer has the textures of the brush?
Which bands of color are paint added or paint subtracted, stripped away with a squeegee while wet?
Why do they look silk-screened when they are made by hand?
Most were clearly made quickly and incisively, which required a great deal of planning and concentration  one move after another with no re-dos.
The works make reference to Josef Albers concentric squares and Frank Stellas stripes and go beyond, to a signal demolition of the customary division between geometry and gesture.
ROBERTA SMITH

Photo

Carey Young

Through Oct. 14.
Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, Manhattan; 212-255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com.
Brussels has drawn even with Berlin as Europes coolest city for contemporary art, but amid its new galleries and cheap studios are grand, gruesome reminders of Belgiums 19th-century empire.
None are more imposing than the Palais de Justice, or central courthouse, a ghastly mash-up of Baroque, classical and Assyrian motifs that sprawls over more than six acres of the capitals heart.
(It wants to be as terrible as the Law, severe and sumptuously naked, Verlaine wrote after seeing it.)
Its here that the British-American artist Carey Young shot her icy, thoughtful, technically accomplished new video, which takes a distinctly feminist view of jurisprudence.
In Palais de Justice, establishing shots of the monstrous courthouse precede long takes of female judges at work, which Ms. Young filmed without permission through the portholes of courtroom doors.
Lawyers, defendants and witnesses appear only in partial view, blocked by walls or curtains, as the stern-faced magistrates, all middle-aged and wearing black robes with white neck bands, nod along or stare down petitioners.
We never hear the pleas, only ghostly, ambient sounds from the giant courthouses halls, and the silent female judges appear unimpressed and unbending.
(An associated series of depopulated photographs of the courthouse, bearing the Kafkaesque title Before the Law, doubles down on the videos eeriness.)
Palais de Justice is projected here at massive scale, as domineering as the courthouse itself, and its view of gender and law is at once sensitive and bleak.
You may briefly fantasize that Ms. Young has found some alternate Brussels where women are in charge.
But more often, and more disturbingly, it feels like a juridical peep show, in which the criminal law appears as just a special case of a male-dominated societys pitiless daily judgments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

JASON FARAGO

Photo

Mike Kuchar

Through Oct. 7.
Anton Kern, 16 East 55th Street, Manhattan; 212-367-9663, antonkerngallery.com.
Mike Kuchars over-the-top felt-tip-and-ink drawings of gay male fantasy are weirdly innocent.
The underground filmmaker (and twin brother of the other filmmaking Kuchar, George) started dreaming up his bronze-skinned, blue-eyed, naked Vikings and gladiators in the 1960s as commissioned illustrations for privately printed comic books.
In the exhibition Drawings by Mike!, they still have the bright colors, lush details and graphic anatomical exaggerations of a vintage Mad Magazine cover.
They also have Mads vaudeville-style over-determination, the conviction that any joke worth telling is worth telling again: Candles drip, bottles of Champagne and rum spurt, and the nave farmhand in Adams Eden has GOOD BOY and BAD BOY tattooed on his shoulders to underscore the miniature devil and angel sparring to advise him.
But in contrast to those spurting bottles, the key to the drawings dreamy innocence is that the serpent in this garden hasnt yet brought down la petite mort on anyones head.
In fact, Mr. Kuchars achievement is to have combined such vividly realized details  the farmhands pout, the turn of a berserkers hip, a reticulated green brontosaurus  into scenes that seem oversaturated with sexual suggestion but are actually completely unspecific.
In Play Stations, two naked men stand in front of a basement wall covered with crudely lettered graffiti expressing crudely transactional desires and demands, and they look utterly befuddled, as if they have no idea what to do with each other.
WILL HEINRICH
Photo

They call Mount Rushmore the Shrine of Democracy: four presidents blasted out of the face of a granite escarpment in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
For the artist Mel Ziegler, its literally a touchstone.
In the mid-1980s, he and his partner, Kate Ericson, stopped there on a cross-country trip and returned home with the four rocks off the rubble at the base of the mountain that would comprise From the Making of Mount Rushmore, one of their signature works.
We knew we werent supposed to take them, Mr. Ziegler recalled, but there werent any signs or anything.
Ericson died of brain cancer in 1995 at the age of 39.
But Mr. Ziegler, now chair of the art department at Vanderbilt University, has kept going back, collecting souvenirs he plans to use as the basis of some future exhibition.
Photo

His obsession fits the locale: For all of Mount Rushmores patriotic themes, tourism is its reason for being.
The mountains 60-foot faces were the work of Gutzon Borglum, who led the team chiseling and blasting the faces of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.
An earlier commission, the Confederate memorial carved into the face of Georgias Stone Mountain, came courtesy of the United Daughters of the Confederacy and Samuel Hoyt Venable, a Ku Klux Klansman.
But Mount Rushmore carries no such baggage.
For Mr. Ziegler  who currently has an exhibition of 50 tattered flags, one from every state, at Federal Hall on Wall Street  Mount Rushmore and its souvenirs represent the democratization of memory, a transition from a time when travelers were so few they could just take something, the way he and Ericson had done.
The curios he has collected from across the United States are arrayed in vintage wooden bookcases that line a studio at his Nashville home.
With the help of our smartphones, he gave me a virtual tour.
Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Is everything in these cabinets from Mount Rushmore?
Almost, yes.
This one I kind of like.
Its like a portable ashtray.
Heres for cigarettes, and then you can close it and put it in your purse, and you wont have to worry about the ashes.
And heres one I love.
Its a little girls purse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And somewhere in here, I dont know where it is, I actually have a Mount Rushmore perfume.
Photo

How many of these do you have in all?
Photo

Of all the surprises that greet an American on her first trip abroad, the most transformative may be an understanding of how differently we conceive of time.
Old in American terms is not old anywhere else.
(This sketch was done in the 1800s, I remember telling a Chinese college friend, awe-struck by the works provenance.
Oh, she said, so not too long ago.)
We are a young country, and like most young entities  be they people or states  our internal metronome ticks a little faster; the land we inhabit may in fact be home to ancient civilizations, but America itself is new, with a sense of impatience, adventure, excitability and a cheerful lack of perspective (either charming or dangerous, depending on your point of view and the circumstances) that only the young possess.
When you are immature, every bad thing can feel like a crisis, and every good thing like ecstasy; the rest of the world watches us with a sense of weariness and unflappability that is earned only after many centuries of witnessing governments and empires and civilizations and self-styled saviors rise, crescendo and tumble.
The accretion of history is relentless, and endless.
Our admiration for this kind of equanimity may explain in part why T has long looked for design inspiration from countries that wear their histories with ease.
Any first-time (or hundredth-time, for that matter) traveler to Rome cant help but marvel at how lightly, and with what matter-of-factness, the Italians live among antiquities: A walk down the street is a stroll across thousands of years; the 2,000-plus-year-old Largo di Torre Argentina, excavated in the late 1920s, was where Caesar died, but it is also where the citys cats congregate for a sun-drunk loll.
Other cities would have placed such a monument in a museum, behind walls and off-limits  here, though, there is so much history that such an approach is impossible.
Instead, the Italians have learned that every building, every structure, is a palimpsest, and that their lives within it, superannuated or brief, contribute another layer to its long narrative.
Certainly this is true for the interior architect and furniture designer Vincenzo De Cotiis, whose Milan apartment is one of those only-in-Italy spaces: an 18th-century palazzo with 19th-century floors and 21st-century dyed-velvet daybeds, in which everything coexists in inexplicable harmony.
As Ts writer at large Nancy Hass explains, De Cotiiss genius as a designer lies in his ability to know when to do nothing, when to stop updating, in order to make a space that in eliding time becomes timeless.
Imperfection, De Cotiis says, takes longer than perfection.
Great design doesnt choose between the old and the new: It combines them, and from it is born something else, something out of time altogether.
That same instinct  to borrow; to adapt; to make new  has been adopted as well by the Western architects exploring an 18th-century Japanese technique called shou sugi ban, which is a method of protecting wood by charring it with fire.
The process  which, as writer Amanda Fortini notes, leaves wood bituminous-black and scaly, like alligator skin thats been singed  is thought to have been developed to secure rice and grain storehouses, but has been recently discovered by American and European designers, who are entranced by its slightly spooky inkiness, and by the pleasing paradox of making something fire-retardant by setting it aflame.
And why shouldnt they?
The result, whether applied to an eighth-century pagoda near Kyoto or a built-just-last-year saltbox in New England, is equally arresting.
It is a reminder that good design  like a good idea  is always relevant, and that context, while important, isnt everything: Sometimes, all you need is the opportunity to see something made by someone very long ago to make you view the world around you anew.
Advertisement

The Design Companies Conquering New Ground

Three businesses  two established, one emerging  move in new directions.
Image Giulio Cappellini and Antonio Facco in the brands Milan showroom, which features an installation by the young designer.
Credit Bea De Giacomo

Cappellini

In 2013, Antonio Facco, a young graduate student studying design in Milan, had just presented his final project before a jury of professionals.
One of them, the architect and furniture designer Giulio Cappellini , approached him.
We were waiting outside, and a door opened, and Giulio came out, Facco recalled.
I saw that he was walking toward me, and in the moment I thought, maybe he needs a lighter for a cigarette.
Facco readied one.
But Cappellini wasnt looking for fire; he was looking for Facco, to whom he offered a job on the spot.
And thus began a new collaboration, the latest in a long line for Cappellini, who has supported young talent since he joined his familys forward-thinking Milan-based brand in 1979.
Though Facco, who is now 25, started his own studio soon after graduating, he happily agreed to work with Cappellini, designing several of the brands most exciting pieces over the past few years, including a deceptively simple modular wooden coffee table, which cleverly contains four retractable cushioned seats.
Image From top: a wood table with retractable chairs, designed by Facco for Cappellini; their stained-glass Luce tables.
Credit Courtesy of Cappellini

The culmination of their relationship, though, may have come this past spring, with their codesigned Luce tables: small cubes made from glass panels in a rainbow of hues, whose color changes depending on the angle at which they are viewed.
Facco also conceptualized the installation showcasing Luce and other Cappellini creations at Milans Salone del Mobile last May: Influenced by the architecture and palette of Luis Barragn and the paintings of Giorgio de Chirico, Carlo Carr and Henri Rousseau, it was a delightfully disorienting display.
Pastel walls and murals populated with animals and Memphis-esque geometry set a striking backdrop for the companys new objects and furniture.
They were so popular, in fact, that Cappellini will release a line of wallpaper and textiles based on the installation.
Cappellini himself was tickled by the response, but also unsurprised.
On the one hand you need to show new products, he says.
On the other hand you need to make people dream.
Image Kenzo Takada in his Paris apartment.
Credit Bea De Giacomo

Roche Bobois

When he began to work on his new collection for the French furniture company Roche Bobois , the Japanese clothing designer Kenzo Takada understood immediately that the design process would be different from what he was used to.
Working in fashion means dealing with a restrictive vision of time, a strong seasonality, Takada says.
Working for the home opens up a different horizon.
It meant aiming for something more timeless.
For inspiration, he looked to an element both classic and personal: kimonos, specifically the variety worn by actors in traditional Noh theater performances.
Together, he and Roche Bobois recreated a selection of ancient, geometric- and floral-patterned jacquard weaves in cotton blends, which were then used to upholster the brands most recognizable piece of furniture: the modular, low-slung Mah Jong sofa, designed in 1971 by Hans Hopfer, along with pillows and ottomans.
Some of the same patterns also informed a selection of delicate earthenware pottery.
Image From top: Takadas new collection for the company includes enamel vases and an ottoman; his Paris apartment, which features Roche Boboiss classic Mah Jong sofa upholstered in fabrics of his own design.
Credit Courtesy of Roche Bobois

What matters to me most in interior design is harmony, Takada says.
I like to combine very traditional Parisian decoration with other cultural influences, particularly Japanese ones.
And he means it: Many of the pieces from his line for Roche Bobois are now installed in his own apartment  which is, naturally, in Paris.
Advertisement

Image Nick and Rachel Cope at home in Brooklyn in front of their Saipua-inspired wallpaper.
Credit David Chow

Calico

Rachel and Nick Cope, the 30-something couple behind Calico Wallpaper , had wanted to make textile versions of their mural-style wallpapers since they founded their company in 2013.
Customers have been asking for just as long.
Weve always liked the idea of creating immersive spaces, says Nick, who runs the business side of the Brooklyn-based operation.
When you see Calico non-repeating wallpaper wrapping all of the walls in a room, it creates a large presence.
Moving into textiles adds another immersive element.
Now, fans of Calico can finally decorate their pillows and windows in Rachels asymmetrical, organic patterns  which she prints and paints in her studio before theyre transferred digitally  with fabrics from their sister line, Cope.
For their first collection, which has corresponding Calico papers, she found inspiration in florist Saipuas upstate New York flower farm and in the landscape around Hudson, N.Y., where the Copes recently bought a weekend house.
The results include one of her signature palette prints  with fat watercolor streaks of muted grays, greens and pinks  as well as wildflower scenes and Japanese-inspired marbling that brings to mind worn river rocks.
I wanted to reinstate the feeling of being in nature, says Rachel.
I grew up on Marthas Vineyard and I was always outside with my family, so Im trying to bring a little bit of that feeling into the home.
Image From left: fabrics from their debut textile line, which also includes items such as throw pillows.
Credit Courtesy of Calico Wallpaper

The new line also prompted them to make the business more eco-friendly  Nick has a background in green building, and with a 2-year-old daughter and a baby on the way, that shift felt more urgent than ever.
They now offer LEED-certified wallpaper and use mineral pigments to dye the all-natural Belgian linen for their textiles.
And whats good enough for their customers is good enough for them: Wallpaper and window treatments from their newest collections already hang in their Red Hook apartment.
Now that the mural and curtains are installed, I can already feel a difference in our house, Rachel says.
It feels like a breath of fresh air.
Many creators have become so popular that theyre also working for studios, on everything from variant posters (Tracie Chings prints for The Jungle Book) to Blu-ray covers (Marie Bergerons illustrations for Takeshi Kitano films).
Last year, the illustrator Kyle Lambert created the official Stranger Things poster, his homage to classic hand-painted ones of the 1980s.
Today, there are galleries and digital archives (Repostered.com and AlternativeMoviePosters.com) devoted to the form.
And then there are the books, like the Crazy 4 Cult: Cult Movie Art series, Mr. Chojnackis Alternative Movie Posters (being published in French by Akileos in October) and, this month, The Art of Mondo, a lavishly illustrated history of the company.
The artists are an eclectic and talented bunch.
Here are seven to watch:

Photo

Tracie Ching

Washington

Ms. Ching has created gorgeous concert posters for Kings of Leon and graphics for small-batch beer cans (Brewdog Pump Action Poet).
But its her vibrant, spellbinding movie posters that have led to work at Sony (The Magnificent Seven) and AMC (Fear the Walking Dead).
She does official stuff, but there are a lot of rules from the studios about so-and-sos face has to be so big, Mr. Chojnacki said.
So I think shell always continue to do the alternative stuff, just for her fans.
Among his favorites: her takes on the Stanley Kubrick classics Dr. Strangelove and The Shining.
Photo

Marie Bergeron

Montreal

When Ms. Bergeron was enlisted to create a poster for The Godfather, she pictured a decapitated horse, neck bones exposed, rearing up on its hind legs.
For Apocalypse Now: a lone soldier, making his way upstream through a waist-deep river of blood.
Ms. Bergeron has created album covers, video-game-inspired triptychs, and a recruiting poster for Imperial stormtroopers (Support the Boys in White) for the Harper Design book Star Wars Propaganda.
She has a talent for painting emotions, Mr. Chojnacki said.
Every time you see one of her posters, you know its her.
Photo

Jason Edmiston

Toronto

A lover of all things spooky, Mr. Edmiston has tackled chain-saw-wielding killers and the pantheon of Universal monsters.
Among his best-loved works: his creepy, crayon-colored celebration of the Chiodo Brothers cult classic Killer Klowns From Outer Space, and his in-your-face take on John Carpenters 1978 slasher classic, Halloween, which captures the precise moment when Michael Myers bursts into the closet and starts stabbing.
Hes the guy I collected the most original art of, Rob Jones, Mondos creative director, said.
Over my wifes side of the bed is his Bride of Frankenstein, and over my side of the bed is Blacula.
Photo

We Buy Your Kids

Sydney

We Buy Your Kids is the Australian design duo of Sonny Day and Biddy Maroney, whose work has appeared on childrens books and album covers, premium cider labels and skate decks.
Their style, reminiscent of 1960s Polish film posters, bear little resemblance to the originals, let alone works by their poster-producing peers.
For the 1986 version of The Fly, the duo summed up one of the most viscerally disturbing sci-fi films in a single image of a finger dripping with goo.
Thats probably my favorite of theirs, Mr. Jones said.
Its gross and sexual at the same time.
Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Phantom City Creative

Toronto

Justin Erickson and Paige Reynolds make up Phantom City Creative, whose recent commissions include a special edition soundtrack album for the A&E series Bates Motel, and a poster for a Christmas Day screening of Quentin Tarantinos The Hateful Eight.
For Jaws, Phantom City Creative envisioned a beach-facing window framed by a great whites gaping maw.
For Godzilla, Mr. Erickson captured the Japanese terror as a pile of wrecked buildings in one poster; in another, as a pillar of smoke and fire.
He even did a great one where he used the kanji for Godzilla  the Japanese lettering spelling out the title  and actually made it look like Godzilla, Mr. Jones said.
Photo

Kevin Tong

Austin, Tex.
Theres a lot going on in a Kevin Tong poster.
In his wondrous take on The Wizard of Oz, you get simultaneous glimpses of gloomy Kansas and the Emerald City, one in front of the other; in a commission based on Akira Kurosawas Ran, theres an exploding, upside-down castle, an eerie ghost, and samurai and horses falling out of a blood-red sky.
For the Mondo poster for Psycho, Mr. Tong reimagined Hitchcocks iconic shower scene.
He was trying to show that entire scene, trying to mimic that experience of watching that scene in real time, but in a single image, Mr. Jones said.
And he succeeded.
You get a chill.
Photo

Pacific Standard Time: LA/LA, the art extravaganza that fills some 70 Southern California art institutions to celebrate the foundational presence of Latin American art in the region, is now under full sail.
And probably none of its exhibitions more accessibly capture the hemispheric dynamic than How to Read El Pato Pascual: Disneys Latin America and Latin Americas Disney.
In 1941, Walt Disney traveled to South America with a small army of artists and screenwriters as part of the United States governments postwar Good Neighbor policy.
The trip produced Latinized versions of Donald Duck and Mickey Mouse in Disney films and accusations of cultural imperialism by Latin American artists.
The tale unfolds in this ingeniously thought-out Los Angeles show (through Jan. 14) divided between the MAK Center for Art and Architecture at the Schindler House and the Luckman Fine Arts Complex at the California State University, Los Angeles.
Photo

Two weeks before a much-anticipated exhibition featuring Chinese conceptual artists opens at the Guggenheim, the museum is facing intense pressure to exclude one piece of art: a video of dogs trying to fight one another.
The museum tried to tamp down the criticism on Thursday night, announcing in a statement that the piece, Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, would stay in the exhibition even though the work may be upsetting.
The seven-minute clip shows four pairs of American pit bulls charging each other but unable to touch because they are running on nonmotorized treadmills.
Real dogs were used when the piece was first shown in 2003 in Beijing, but the Guggenheim will feature a video of it.
Critics and animal-rights supporters have called it animal abuse and started a petition encouraging the museum to remove it.
The curators of the exhibition hope that viewers will consider why the artists produced it and what they may be saying about the social conditions of globalization and the complex nature of the world we share, the Guggenheim said in a statement posted on its website on Thursday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The three-month show, Art and China After 1989, opens Oct. 6 in the New York City museum and will feature about 150 pieces of experimental art.
Many works are deliberately shocking, including the signature piece, Theater of the World, which features live insects and reptiles scurrying under an overhead lamp.
He had a particularly strong impact on Frankfurt, his home city, where he served as an adviser to the municipal government for many years and worked on master plans for the European Central Bank, as well as for a new section of the city known as the Europaviertel, which was built on land reclaimed from railroad freight yards.
Photo

Photo

Albert Speer Jr. was born in Berlin on July 29, 1934, only days before Hitler declared himself Fhrer, or leader, of Germany.
Albert Jr. grew up in Berchtesgaden, Germany, the Alpine village used by Hitler as a retreat.
Films from the 1930s show a young Mr. Speer playing on the veranda of Hitlers villa while the dictator looks on.
But Mr. Speer once told an interviewer that he had only vague memories of that time.
As Hitlers chief architect, the elder Mr. Speer designed the Reichskanzlei in Berlin, the regimes seat of power, and formulated extravagant plans to remake the German capital as a showcase of Nazi power, including erecting a Peoples Hall in Berlin capable of holding 180,000 people.
Photo

Appointed Germanys armaments minister, Albert Speer used his organizational talents to maintain weapons production, largely through slave labor, and prolong the war.
He was convicted during the Nuremberg trials and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
He became one of the few top Nazis to express remorse for the regimes crimes.
After he was imprisoned for war crimes, the Speer family moved in with Albert Jr.s grandparents in Heidelberg.
Albert Jr. developed a severe stutter, which he later overcame.
He initially trained as a carpenter, then studied architecture at the Technical University of Munich before opening his own firm in Frankfurt in 1964.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Speer insisted that his decision to become an architect had little to do with his father.
I could draw well, I could express myself well, I had ideas, he told an interviewer from ZDF, a German broadcaster, in 2005.
My father played almost no role.
Over the years Mr. Speer made a name for himself specializing in large projects, often overseas.
They included a criminal court complex in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; a government building complex in Changchun, China; and the campus of Fudan University in Shanghai.
Photo

He is survived by his wife of 45 years, Ingmar Speer, an actress known professionally as Ingmar Zeisberg.
He had no children.
Information on other survivors was not available.
As an architect, Mr. Speer said he had striven to give his projects a human scale that respected local culture and the environment.
He told the newspaper Sddeutsche Zeitung in 2010 that he avoided talking about his father, who died in 1981.
I have tried my whole life to separate myself from my father, to distance myself, he said.
Photo

Our guide to new art shows.
DELIRIOUS: ART AT THE LIMITS OF REASON, 1950-1980 at the Met Breuer (through Jan. 4).
This provocative multimedia survey ignores the established canon to propose that after the destructiveness of World War II, artists began to answer lifes absurdities with more of the same.
It follows a thread of irrationality through the efforts of 63 artists from three continents working with abstract form, language and the body .
There are some familiar names  Sol LeWitt, Claes Oldenburg and Lynda Benglis  but the selections and rejiggered context give everything a new spin.
(Roberta Smith) 212-535-7710; metmuseum.org

Photo

PARTNERS IN DESIGN: ALFRED H. BARR JR. AND PHILIP JOHNSON at the Grey Art Gallery (through Dec. 9).
Five minutes on StreetEasy, browsing through seven-figure contemporary condos whose furniture was designed a century ago, should offer all the proof necessary that Modernism will never die.
This intriguing if incomplete exhibition reveals how two young, Bauhaus-mad men of MoMA  Barr, the museums first director, and Johnson, its first architecture curator  imported European design to the United States, and showcased it not only in their new museum but also in their own apartments.
Johnson had family money, and hired Mies van der Rohe to kit out his apartment with a rosewood chest, a spare tea table, and a camel-colored Barcelona chair; Barr, who had to work for a living, ordered entirely passable knockoffs from Ypsilanti, Mich.
This show is too small for its subject, but if youre into Modernist revivals, youll do better here than at the ghastly new restaurant in Johnsons old Four Seasons.
(Jason Farago) 212-998-6780, greyartgallery.nyu.edu

STREAMS AND MOUNTAINS WITHOUT END: LANDSCAPE TRADITIONS OF CHINA at the Metropolitan Museum of Art (through Jan. 6, 2019).
If youve seen only ash-aired Beijing, or that architectural Oz Shanghai, you havent seen China.
Most of the country is wide-open space, green and blue: hills, plains, water.
And it was for an escape to that openness that some Chinese urbanites yearned in centuries past.
Their dream: to sit in on a terrace halfway up a mountain, with tea steeping, an ink-brush at hand, a friend at the door, and a waterfall splashing nearby.
Not just for vacation.
Forever.
One way they could live the dream was through images of the kind seen in this show.
Technically, its a collection reinstallation spiced with a few loans.
But the Mets China holdings are so broad and deep that some of the pictures here are resurfacing for the first time in almost a decade; one is finally making its debut a century after it was acquired.
And theres more than just paintings on view: ceramics, textiles and scholars rocks fill out the panorama.
(Holland Cotter) 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org
Photo

A noted collection of more than 150 Native American artifacts, including wampum belts and finely beaded ceremonial garb, will stay  for now  where it has been housed for almost 70 years, at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., officials announced Thursday.
The collection is owned by the Andover Newton Theological School, the countrys oldest seminary, but has long been housed at the museum.
The Native American items in question, mostly gathered in the 19th century by Christian missionaries, are part of a larger art collection numbering over 1,100 items that the seminary is now giving to the museum.
The other items include 19th century photographs and embroidery from China

The school has been cited by federal regulators for failing to adequately follow a law designed to ensure the return of sacred and other special artifacts to Native American tribes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Dan Monroe, director of the museum, said he plans to return many of the items to tribes.
Well pick up that process and move it along expeditiously, said Monroe, a noted expert on the repatriation law.
Advertisement

Four Modern Masters of Color Reinvigorating Design Image From opals and silk ribbon to nail varnish and fish netting, objects that inspire four designers of jewelry, interiors, lingerie and flowers.
Credit Kyoko Hamada

The Color Field painters of the late 1940s and 1950s exploded many ideas about what art should and shouldnt be, but one of their greatest and most enduring influences was the assertion that color has its own power, one apart from and even surpassing that of figurative representation.
Mark Rothko, for example, wanted viewers to stand close to his paintings, to be enveloped by their hues, to have a mythic, transcendent experience with his work.
In the words of critic Calvin Tomkins, the painter sought to depict color itself, color liberated and breathing within the alternative world of the picture.
At the same time, in a different realm, the decorator Dorothy Draper was also positing that color could elevate the spirit: She counseled against what she called the will to be dreary, and maintained that theatrical color combinations, like flamingo pink and forest green, caused the pulse to quicken and the mood to lift.
Valentino Garavani, too, has long insisted on the magnetism of color.
A gown in his signature red has always been synonymous with style, he has said, and when a woman arrives wearing one, everybody looks at her.A bold, passionate shade, Garavani knows, can alter the ecosystem of a room, and perhaps the fate of its wearer.
Color carries an emotional charge; it telegraphs feeling.
In recent years, scientists have found evidence to suggest that we may indeed have hard-wired emotional responses to certain colors.
A 2011 Dartmouth College study of rhesus monkeys, for example, discovered that they avoided humans wearing red (perhaps offering an evolutionary explanation for why the shade often signals stop or danger).
And babies, who are prelinguistic and havent a clue about cultural symbolism, have shown changes in brain activity when exposed to different hues.
Artists, of course, have long understood this instinctively.
Here are four  designers of jewelry, lingerie, flowers and interiors  who incorporate color in their work with particular imagination and verve, and who believe in color as an alchemical force: one with the ability to change a space, a mood or even a mind-set.
Image The lingerie designer Araks Yeramyan at her loft in TriBeCa.
Credit David Chow

Advertisement

Araks Yeramyan

When Araks Yeramyan was a child, her father, a chemist whod set aside dreams of becoming an artist, allowed his daughters only toys that stimulated the imagination, such as wooden building blocks and drawing materials.
He limited their crayon and colored-pencil selection to primary hues: red, yellow and blue  the shades, he emphasized, from which all others can be created.
He hung a color wheel in their playroom and would ask them to replicate the plumage of an exotic bird, or the bright patterns of a butterflys wings.
Yeramyan  the Manhattan-based designer known for her modest underpinnings rendered in exquisite colors  was frustrated by the rigor and austerity of these art projects, but admits they instilled in her a deep, nuanced understanding of color, a quality that has defined her namesake line, Araks , for the past 17 years.
Image Araks bralette, $100, slip, $320, and underwear, $65, From left: The stock of thread she keeps at home; a charmeuse and chiffon bralette, silk slip and underwear from her fall collectionbralette, $100, slip, $320, and underwear, $65, araks.com Credit From left: David Chow; courtesy of Araks

Yeramyan, now 43, begins each new collection with specific colors in mind: the lapis blue of the Utah potash mines; the pale coral of a vintage slip; the creamy white and phosphorescent purple petals of an anemone flower.
She then hunts through the 80-odd Mason jars stuffed with archived fabric snippets that she keeps in her studio, each containing hundreds of variations on one particular shade.
If she doesnt find a match she wants, shell often create the hue with paint.
I drive my fabric dyers crazy, she says.
This meticulous process yields rich, sophisticated tones that Yeramyan combines to create understated, color-blocked lingerie; in her hands, a wireless bra in a faint violet chiffon is adorned with shiny storm-blue patches of silk charmeuse, and a 40s-style pair of underwear cut in robins egg-blue cotton is given a navy crochet trim.
Her subtle and unexpected pairings are best appreciated at close range.
So why design garments that (almost) no one but the wearer will enjoy?
Its a boost for the soul, she says, a luxurious secret, a bit of color therapy to start and end the day.
Its a personal expression, Yeramyan adds, but one thats mainly for yourself.
Image Mahdavi in her Paris atelier.
Credit Sabine Mirlesse

India Mahdavi

India Mahdavi remembers her early childhood in Technicolor.
The Iran-born, Paris-based interior designer lived in Cambridge, Mass., in the mid-60s, and her first recollections are of watching Disney movies, Bugs Bunny and Peanuts.
Even the food inside her lunchbox was colorful: chocolate or strawberry milk, peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches.
She calls this era in American culture a time of very strong colors and a sort of paradise for kids.
When she was 6, her family moved to Germany, where her memories fade to black-and-white.
At 55, Mahdavi has built a career around recapturing the palette of her youth.
You know how actors sometimes use their past emotions to express a character?
she asks.
I do that with the colors in my memory.
Her approach is playful, whimsical  as bold, fantastical and unencumbered by rules as a childs.
The pistachio-green and violet interior she designed for the Ladure cafe in Geneva makes the space itself feel like a macaron.
And the peacock-blue leather walls of Pariss Germain Paradiso cinema lounge, embossed with splashy frescoes of grasses and flowers, create the atmosphere of an underwater jungle.
Image From left: A walnut-topped side table; Mahdavis totally pink interior of the Gallery at Sketch in London; the designers Jelly Pea velvet sofa; a Bohemian crystal and brass lamp and an enameled ceramic stool and ashtray from her collection.
Credit From left: Courtesy of India Mahdavi; Rob Whitrow; Courtesy of India Mahdavi (2)

Mahdavi often uses velvet to achieve the flat, deep, cartoonish hues she prefers.
(Cotton and linen, she says, dont absorb color in the same way.)
Her fanciful custom-made furniture give her interiors a surreal, down-the-rabbit-hole feel  shes made blueberry-purple club chairs for the Connaught hotel in London, chartreuse banquettes and pod-style seating for the I Love Paris restaurant at the Charles de Gaulle airport and, most famously, bespoke bubblegum-pink banquettes and cocoon chairs for the Gallery restaurant at Sketch in London.
The colors Mahdavi selects are often inspired by a location: Mexico Citys Condesa DF hotel is bathed in a vivid turquoise that is often found in the region; the seating for Caf Franais on the Place de la Bastille is the brash blood-red and royal blue of the French flag.
Other times, shell choose hues based on how theyll interact with one another  the mustard and salmon of the Red Valentino store in London, say.
Its not just a conversation of yes and no, very well, thank you, Mahdavi says.
I like when colors swear at each other.
Image Brittany Asch of Brrch.
Credit David Chow

Brittany Asch

On a recent trip to Milan, Brittany Asch, owner of the New York City-based floral studio Brrch , noticed similarities between an Italian confection  a green custard cake with maraschino-red cherries and candied oranges  and her own striking arrangements.
Both, she thought, were sugary, vivacious, decadent things.
Asch has a penchant for sensual pastels, acidic neons, sultry purples, autumnal shades and blooms of deep scarlet (which she calls David Lynch red) that cut through everything around them, like blood on white fabric.
Shes especially fond of pale pink roses, Champagne-colored anthurium with rainbow stamens and phalaenopsis orchids in mint green.
Her lyrical creations, too elegant and moody to be called whimsical, are at once classical and avant-garde, with the romantic feel of a Flemish still life  but redone in fresh, tangy colors.
Image Clockwise from top left: A composition of dyed orchids and anthurium; a photograph Asch snapped of her bouquet of anthurium, rose hips and celosia en route to a client; her arrangement of roses, phalaenopsis orchids, black petunia and medinilla; a flower-filled glass dining table Asch created for an event in N.Y.C.
Credit Courtesy of Brittany Asch

Asch, who founded Brrch in 2013, originally studied to become a musician.
Though flowers are her medium, her creations are indeed like songs  evocative and emotive.
Artificially colored orchids regularly appear in her work (she likes to dye them apricot or goth gray) and are key to her fantastical, hallucinatory compositions.
Were used to seeing a green field, the 30-year-old says.
Am I used to seeing a pink and blue field?
So if I create this kind of [color] combination its going to create a surreal quality.
Id like to think they look like they could have been made by someone with a wand.
Asch was raised in New Yorks Hudson Valley, where the green of the grass and trees, was, as she recalls, a pretty overwhelming force.
It was only three years ago, when she visited Los Angeles for the first time, that she began to explore and crave color in a new way.
Color, she says, was more a part of the narrative there: in the landscapes, the buildings and the clothes people wore.
She remembers being struck by the sandy tones, the corals, the water, and, in her words, little pieces of me started to light up.
Advertisement

Image The jewelry designer Irene Neuwirth at her shop in West Hollywood.
Credit Joe Leavenworth

Irene Neuwirth

Pink opals shaped like strawberries dangle from gold-and-turquoise earring stems.
Watermelon tourmaline, at once rosy and green like its namesake fruit, is transfigured into leaf-shaped earrings.
And Lightning Ridge black opals flash royal blues, sea-foam greens and fiery bits of orange-red.
The stone resembles a radar map of an oncoming storm  or appears to contain its own weather system.
Irene Neuwirth s vibrant, faceted jewelry is known for its deep, mesmerizingly intense colors and its connection to the natural world.
And while the L.A.-based designers work sometimes embellishes flora and fauna (have you ever seen a lapis-blue swan?
), her interpretation is more realistic than one might think.
Mother Nature, she points out, is the original artist, tossing up improbable juxtapositions  periwinkles and pinks and oranges  as anyone who has ever seen the glorious purples and scarlets of the Navajo slot canyons or the teal greens of the ocean against the white sand of a Hawaiian beach can attest.
Image From left: A pair of one-of-a-kind drop earrings with 14 different-colored stones; jewels displayed in a diorama made by artists Clare Crespo and Marine Panossian at Neuwirths boutique; a necklace with myriad varieties of opals; a cuff featuring a rainbow of tourmalines, tanzanite and Mexican fire opals.
Irene Neuwirth earrings, bracelet and necklace, all price on request, (323) 285-2000. Credit Courtesy of Irene Neuwirth

In the 14 years since she began designing jewelry, Neuwirth has distinguished herself not only with her use of color, but with her choice of forgotten, obscure and outlandish gems: electric aqua Paraba tourmalines, Mexican fire opals that smolder like dying embers, lilac-hued rose of France amethysts and of course, those arresting Lightning Ridge opals.
While more traditional jewelry houses might pair gems of starkly opposing shades, like rubies and sapphires, the 41-year-old Neuwirth tends to mingle stones of similar coloring.
Her most recent collection was inspired by the year she lived in London, where she spent many afternoons walking alone in the citys verdant parks: A green tourmaline and aquamarine necklace resembles a chain of slightly variegated fronds, while a green opal rosette pendant is surrounded by emeralds that evoke gleaming, thorny foliage.
T Coloring Pages

The illustrator Konstantin Kakanias created custom coloring pages for the designers featured in this story, to see how they would fill them in at home.
The results are on Ts Instagram account  and you can print the pages to color them in, too.
(Weve been told its a very calming activity.)
Download the dog coloring page .
Download the cat coloring page .
IN 2002, Jenny Holzer was invited to create a piece at Wanas Konst, an 80-acre sculpture park tucked behind a romantic 16th-century step-gabled castle in the wilds of southern Sweden.
She spent two days just wandering the grounds, where contemporary sculptures (a monumental steel chair covered in antlers, a tiny wood house in a clearing) by the likes of Marina Abramovic, Robert Wilson and Maya Lin stand amid tall beech trees and, in some cases, grazing cows.
(The art foundation shares the land with a working dairy farm.)
Deep in the woods, Holzer found herself thinking of fairy tales light and dark.
Then she came upon a waist-high stone wall that dates to the 1700s.
I started following it and knew it was the site, she says.
Her contribution to what is now known as Wanas Wall was to carve a different phrase or truism from her past work into a stone block every 20 feet or so.
all things are delicately interconnected, reads one.
Wanas Konst was founded in 1987 by Marika Wachtmeister, an art-loving lawyer who married into the aristocratic family thats presided over the remote Wanas estate for eight generations.
Its one of several parks in out-of-the-way places throughout Europe, from Arte Sella, in an Alpine valley in northern Italy, to Refuge dArt, in southern France, that collectively compose a second wave of art parks.
If the first generation  Storm King Art Center in New York, founded in 1960; Yorkshire Sculpture Park in England, opened in 1977  were pioneers, disrupting where and how large-scale work should be seen, this second group, born in the late 80s and early 90s, emphasized truly site-specific pieces, ones inspired by the properties history and landscapes, and are significant for the equal emphasis they place on the art and the environment in which its displayed.
Gone  or, at least, reduced  are overly manicured lawns and excessive groundskeeping; these parks celebrate their wildness, sometimes so much so that the works within them are obscured, either partly or wholly.
This makes their eventual encounter feel like discovering a secret  and the thrill of seeing art outside a museum is compounded by the unpredictability of its context.
Every art institution  no matter how nontraditional  takes time to mature: Collections have to be built.
An aesthetic has to refine itself.
At Wanas Konst, Arte Sella and Refuge dArt, one realizes the apotheosis of not only an idea, but of a space; here is a marriage of object and place, of the artificial and the natural  a fully realized collection in a fully realized environment.
ART PARKS occupy a distinct and, one might argue, increasingly important place within the larger art world.
Generally with low admission fees and located outside urban hubs, they bring sculpture to those who might otherwise lack access, or feel unwelcome in a typical museum or white-cube setting.
In doing so, they not only democratize art, but challenge us to see it anew.
Wanas is in the middle of a poor and rural region of Sweden, which has recently been settled by a number of asylum seekers from Syria and elsewhere.
Of the 75,000 visitors the park welcomed last year, about half were not regular museumgoers  but the forest floor, it turns out, is neutral ground.
The park is large enough to contain a number of topographies; in touring its 70 pieces, one moves from lawns to fields to forests filled with bird calls and mossy logs.
Like the guests, the artists featured here may be from all over, but the land itself is Swedish countryside, ungroomed and unkempt.
I appreciate that [it doesnt] feel like a wealthy persons garden, even if it is, says the contemporary-art curator Diana Campbell Betancourt.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is also a refuge for nature-starved city dwellers.
Just as the parks bring art to the underserved, they also entice culture-seekers into the wild.
In this way, they borrow from the American land-art movement, which was pioneered by artists such as Walter De Maria and Robert Smithson, who wanted to push past the gallery walls and work with natural materials.
Land art was inherently anti-institutional  an artistic expression of mans smallness in the face of expressly inhospitable settings  whereas art parks are, ultimately, curated: meant to attract visitors into what its critics say are simulacra of museums, a partially controlled setting that happens to be out of doors.
And yet both movements make the environment fundamental to the act of viewing.
Jessica Morgan, the director of New Yorks Dia Art Foundation, which has long been associated with land art, says the popularity of parks like Wanas Konst speaks to the need to escape our increasingly digitized urban reality, adding, even the journey is part of the experience  an antidote to the static encounters we have with art in the modern age.
But if the experience of coming across works of art in the outdoors is personal  one cannot help but feel theyve been placed especially for you  it is also physical.
A thorough viewing of Refuge dArt, a series of 11 Andy Goldsworthy installations strewn across a remote and mountainous region of Haute-Provence, requires walking nearly 100 miles of ancient footpaths.
(The work also lends its name to the site itself.)
Goldsworthy, a British sculptor who is something of an art-park star and who is currently at work on a similar project in England, began this one, with backing from the nearby Muse Gassendi, as a single sculpture in 1999, and has added to it over time.
A handful of the installations are free-standing egg-shaped stone sentinels that recall ancient burial sites, while in other cases the artist set sculptures (a humble pile of rocks, a maze of stone archways) within the walls of abandoned dwellings that he refashioned to accommodate them.
Inside a former farmhouse, for example, a snakelike relief winds up a wall covered in red clay native to the region.
Goldsworthys intention, he says, was to get right into the skin of the place  and of the viewer.
The time spent and effort expended to see these works (three of the structures even allow for overnight stays) fosters a deep engagement with both the art and its setting, so much so that a viewer might not know whether to ascribe her sense of wonder to one or the other.
Of the 1,000 cartoons submitted to The New Yorker each week, only about 15 are published in the magazine.
That is a pretty high bar, though logic might suggest there are some gems among the rejects.
At least, that is David Ostows theory.
He has been submitting his cartoons to the magazine since early last year, but has yet to be published in it.
Instead of reeling from repeated rejection, Mr. Ostow, an architect and illustrator, decided to embrace it: Why not share his illustrations and the work of others with the public, who may appreciate the attempts at wit?
The result is the exhibition Not OK  Great Cartoons That Werent Good Enough, with 45 pieces by 15 artists at Kave Espresso Bar and Event Space.
The show opens Friday, as part of this weekends Bushwick Open Studios, and will run through Dec. 15.
When you try to get into The New Yorker, youre generating so much content and so much gets rejected, Mr. Ostow said.
People end up with mounds of stuff they either have to put in the closet or self-publish.
It wasnt hard to find artists to contribute to the show, especially since a community had built up on social media, where the cartoonists shared rejected work, sometimes soliciting advice on how to tweak an image or a joke.
A similar group had formed in real life  among the friends and cartoonists who pitch their work in person every Tuesday at The New Yorker offices at 1 World Trade Center.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The cartoons on view have a range of styles, sensibilities and some unexpected bursts of color: One from Mitra Farmand shows three protesters holding blank placards as they shout, We need markers!
; Lars Kenseth considers a different meaning of the roadway merging of automobiles; and Amy Kurzweil depicts Mr. and Mrs.
Potato Head playing Twister in a way only they can.
Each of the cartoonists has had work published in the magazine; Mr. Kenseth has sold 12 cartoons for print and six for The New Yorkers Daily Cartoons and Daily Shouts online sections.
(Mr. Ostow has also had success there with two humorous illustrations for Daily Shouts.)
Photo

LONDON  In 1867, a statue of the statesman George Canning was moved to Parliament Square in London, across from the Palace of Westminster and Big Ben.
Since then, statues of 10 other men  including Abraham Lincoln, Winston Churchill and, most recently, Nelson Mandela  have been erected there, but none of women.
London officials announced in April that they would rectify that omission, by placing a statue of Millicent Garrett Fawcett (1847-1929), who campaigned for womens right to vote, on the square.
The British artist Gillian Wearing was hired to create a bronze casting of Fawcett, and on Tuesday, she presented her design for the statue  which will also be the first by a female sculptor on the square.
Photo

The statue will show Fawcett holding a placard with the message Courage calls to courage everywhere, taken from a speech she gave in 1913.
Such period signifiers bend, bleed, even explode as you step over the threshold into the apartment itself, where one feels immediately transported  perhaps to an alien planet with a distant parallel past, perhaps to an alternative present.
A previous tenant had dropped the ceilings and covered the walls and the 200-year-old parquet floors, but De Cotiis stripped the original surfaces back once more, revealing generations of peach or light gray plaster, uneven and ghostly, rich with centuries of history.
The faded frescoes on the vaulted ceilings, bordered with delicate moldings, hint of original shades of umber and steel blue.
As delicate as such operations are, though, the most difficult thing might be knowing when to stop: How far to go back?
How much to let show through?
A hint of the Napoleonic era, a sliver of Art Nouveau?
Its an instinctual process for De Cotiis, who uses his graceful hands like divining rods, touching the surface, feeling its age, its stories.
The walls, left untreated, leave a fine sift of plaster dust if you brush against them; to inhabit the space means becoming part of its very life, to be written into its history.
It is very slow, he says of bringing such a space to just the right moment, one both timeless and out of time, and there is no way to speed it up.
Imperfection takes longer than perfection.
De Cotiis also restored the apartments ornately curved archways that had been adorned during the 18th century with then-fashionable faux marble effects and later painted over by a previous owner; he painstakingly chipped at the layers, revealing as much as possible of the elegantly faded pattern without destroying it.
THE SENSE OF nuanced antiquity he has cultivated exists in radical counterpoint to the apartments spareness.
We might be the most minimal people on earth, says Claudia Rose, who frowns slightly when describing the haute bourgeois home she grew up in nearby Pavia, with a lot of heavy curtains, fine paintings and gilding.
We love empty space, she says.
Photo

There is plenty of it here, beneath the twisted brass light fixtures by De Cotiis that hang like polished Tinkertoy clouds.
The few pieces of furniture, including long, low, pale peach velvet sofas and coffee tables inlaid with glass-smooth discs of rich veined stone, are switched out often.
Neither he nor his wife believe in growing overly attached to objects; the horizontal surfaces are kept as clear as a cutting board, and Claudia Rose sometimes comes home to an entirely different apartment, its interiors transformed by her husbands endless redrafting.
Resin platforms, cast off-site in large rectangular sections and then joined so they appear as a single sheet, cover the floor in place of carpets.
The whitish one in the dining area, beneath the monumental table with its angled underside of silver-plated brass, is inlaid flush with the floor; others, like the ones in the library and bedroom, where the couple spend their meager downtime under rumpled slate-colored linen sheets drinking Champagne and streaming Breaking Bad and Downton Abbey, are raised to define the space more clearly.
Paradoxically, the master bath is the most sensually dense space: The walls, counter and sink are made from the same rare dark green and pink marble from Brazil favored by the severe Viennese architect Adolf Loos, whose 1908 manifesto was called Ornament and Crime.
It is as moody and mysterious as the pre-monsoon sky over Goa.
You have to know when to be strong instead of subtle, De Cotiis says.
Photo

De Cotiis eschews subtlety on another subject as well: He seems severely resistant to the commercial path of creating fabric lines or mass-produced furniture.
So uneasy is he with self-promotion and image-burnishing that he rarely photographed the pieces he made for Progetto Domestico until a year or two ago, and never kept much of an archive  he just let them go out the door.
They are still within me, so I never really worried about having the evidence, he says.
Few photos exist of either the cult clothing line, Haute, which he produced in the mid-aughts, or De Cotiis, his sheepskin-, chain-mail- and ripped-cashmere-heavy follow-up.
I did it because I wanted to experiment with the process, to feel it, to do it with my hands, he says.
I didnt really think about the future or holding on to what came out of it.
Lately, Claudia Rose has tried to rally him to build a modern, multiplatform business, but really, she doesnt want to push very hard.
You cannot change the heart of an artist, she says, laying a hand on his bare forearm.
And why would you want to ruin that kind of joy?
People are always asking him to do a carpet, some bed linens.
But he just looks at me with that face.
That face!
How could you let unhappiness into his life?
Makeig-Jones herself was an anomaly, as revolutionaries often are.
The art-school trained daughter of a provincial doctor, she came to Wedgwood in 1909 at age 27, via family connections.
Hired as an apprentice painter, she joined the mostly female artisans in the vast workrooms.
She was promoted to designer a couple of years later, eventually outgunning not merely her male colleagues, but the renowned outside artists Wedgwood had always relied on.
Photo

Her arrival was fortuitous: Wedgwood was in a slump.
As often happens to companies in crisis, creative risk  even if it meant a woman taking the lead  seemed suddenly necessary.
Throughout the 18th and 19th centuries, Wedgwood had managed to navigate the brutal competition among British pottery companies, including Minton and Spode, by innovating with glazes and new patterns, some quite forward-looking for their time  a foreshadowing of what Makeig-Jones would imagine  including scallop shell-shaped dishes, both in iridescent pink and with abstract splotches, and riotously colored majolica.
But by the early 1900s, Wedgwood had lost creative momentum.
Today, we consider china to be a genteel acquisition, handed down through the generations: Some of its charm, and much of its perceived value, derives from how dated and out-of-style it looks.
But then, dishware was one of the few major purchases entirely controlled by women, and they wanted something fashionable, not old.
Makeig-Joness fancies may not have killed jasperware  then and now, still Wedgwoods best seller  but she made its innocent take on Neo-Classicism feel dated.
On the other hand, Fairyland Lustre, and its companion series, Flame Fairyland Lustre, both based on Makeig-Joness increasingly unhinged watercolors and made with transfer print techniques, heavy underglazing and lots of gilt, yoked the decorative energy of late Art Nouveau to the dark current of emerging Modernism.
As Europe entered World War I, it was just the sort of sophisticated aesthetic diversion people were looking for.
During the 1920s, when Wedgwood was trying to cultivate a more contemporary image in the U.S., the patterns became beloved among young women with bobbed hair who dreamed of being as unencumbered as the designers gossamer nymphs.
Things didnt end well for Makeig-Jones; they often dont for revolutionaries.
There isnt much recorded history on the subject, but its been suggested she grew increasingly erratic, dictatorial and demanding, that she withdrew into her netherworld of elves and goblins.
But that is the tenor of things often said about women who refuse to know their place or even acknowledge that they have one.
In any case, by the time the Depression descended, no one on either side of the Atlantic was in the mood  or had much money  for fine china.
Modernism had won the fight against ornament, and Makeig-Joness creatures and the supersaturated mythical bower they inhabited fell from fashion as quickly as they had risen.
The company, by then helmed by the sixth generation of Wedgwoods, built new facilities and created Art Deco-inflected collections more in tune with the times.
Makeig-Jones was forced out in 1931, and died 14 years later.
It is said she stomped out on that final day, and perhaps she did.
But maybe, like her fairies, she just took wing.
As shareholders, the city of Kassel and the state of Hesse have agreed that the companys liquidity must be secured beyond that, Mr. Geselle said in a statement.
Documenta is inextricably linked with Kassel.
Just how much the cost of the exhibition escalated and exactly who is at fault remain matters of robust debate.
The artistic director of the exhibition, Adam Szymczyk, said in an interview that its economic plan was created before he was appointed, that it had not been sufficiently adapted to take account of the double-venue costs and that his team had been forced to work under terrible budget constraints.
What is happening now is an attempt to make this a problem exhibition because of some financing issues at the end, Mr. Szymczyk said.
Founded in 1955, the quinquennial museum of 100 days transforms working-class Kassel  which brands itself Documenta City  into a cosmopolitan hub of creative activity and brings in welcome tourism revenue.
Often described as the most important art exhibition in the world, Documenta is seen as a bellwether for the relevance and direction of art internationally.
It is conceived as an exhibition that takes risks, and in recent days its organizers have used strong language to suggest that its high-concept ambitions were being leadened by government leaders too focused on the bottom line.
This years extravaganza ran from April to July in Athens and from June to September in Kassel.
It included works by 160 artists, most of whom were unknown and were featured in both cities.
Conceived to mirror, witness and fiercely comment on its time  in the words of Mr. Szymczyk  its themes encompassed debt crises, migration, war and the rise of right-wing populism.
The budget agreed for Documenta 14 was 37 million euros (nearly $50 million)  half to be financed by Hesse, Kassel and the German federal government and the other half to be raised by Documenta from ticket and merchandise sales and sponsors.
Photo

Reporting by Hessische Niederschsische Allgemeine has faulted management miscalculations for the budget overshoot, including what it said was an inability to prepare for soaring electric bills to air-condition spaces in superhot Athens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the Documenta curatorial team, led by Mr. Szymczyk, has fought back, suggesting that the miscalculations had been more broadly shared and the financial ramifications were being exaggerated.
Unfortunately, politicians have prompted the media upheaval by disseminating an image of imminent bankruptcy of Documenta and at the same time presented themselves as the saviors of a crisis they themselves allowed to develop, a Sept. 14 statement from the curatorial team said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Szymczyks decision to stage Documenta in Kassel and Athens faced what he described in an essay in the catalog as pre-emptive and at times disheartening critique from the start.
The Kassel branch of Angela Merkels Christian Democratic Union had campaigned against the double-venue plan in local elections last year, seeing the Athens offshoot  particularly that the exhibition opened there  as a threat to Kassels identity as Documentas home.
Norbert Wett, a local C.D.U.
politician who is running for Parliament in the national elections later this month, said that it was a mistake to take the focus of the exhibition off Kassel, whose taxpayers are helping to pay the bills and that it had been predictable that the budget would be inadequate.
We would like to know where the money went, Mr. Wett said in an interview.
Mr. Szymczyk criticized Documentas reliance on increased attendance to help underwrite each edition and noted that the Kassel part of this years show had surpassed what he called the already insane 2012 figure of 850,000 visitors, while Athens  which was mostly free of admission charges  had drawn 330,000.
It is good to be democratic and art is for everyone, but the capacity of the infrastructure is an issue, he said.
Mr. Szymczyk said he was concerned that the political establishment would use Documentas financial woes as a punitive instrument against the exhibition itself, reaching the point where no crazy ideas are possible anymore.
His curatorial teams statement went a step further, accusing authorities of conducting what amounts to a political takeover of Documenta.
It criticized the authorities for asking, as the statement put it, a public cultural institution to become primarily an economic institution subject to the demands of profit and success.
This anti-establishment tongue-lashing may not go down well with the public backers of the show.
Lawmakers in Kassel are scheduled to meet on Monday  the day after the national election  and will need to approve any cash injection proposed by the mayor.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The mayor, Mr. Geselle, said as the event closed that the exhibition had reached its financial and structural limits and that its organizational structure must be rethought.
He pledged to uphold the artistic freedom of curator but stressed the limits of that freedom are at the point where Documenta jeopardizes its own future.
The show has a long tradition of making political statements; its first edition in 1955 marked Germanys re-entry into international artistic dialogue after World War II, with a presentation of art once banned and defamed by the Nazis as degenerate.
Its reputation rests on its record of granting maximum freedom to the curatorial team and of pushing artistic and ideological boundaries.
This time the financial boundaries were pushed, too.
Mr. Hanssen, a professor at the Tilburg School of Humanities in the Netherlands, asked permission to research the provenance of the painting from the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam, which was scheduled to receive it next.
The Stedelijk and the anonymous private collector granted him the opportunity.
Based on this research, Mr. Hanssen has revealed in a book released last week that the work he thought was a significant find is not  and in fact appears not to be a Mondrian at all.
Photo

What started out as a potentially major cultural discovery now turns out instead to be a cautionary tale about the dangers of presenting works of art owned by private collectors that have not been systematically vetted.
In this case, art experts seem to have passed the buck on conducting basic due diligence on the artwork before displaying it as a Mondrian  putting their own reputations on the line because they gave such credence to a private collector.
When Mr. Hanssen, inquired with the Bozar about the provenance of the Mondrian on display, they could not provide him with a detailed history, he said.
The arts center explained only that the loan from the Swiss collector had been suggested by the Stedelijk, which was considering exhibiting the work as well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But information provided to The New York Times from the Netherlands Institute for Art History, known as the RKD, indicates that the Swiss owner of the work who has lent the painting to three art institutions  the Bozar, the Stedelijk and the Zentrum Paul Klee in Bern, Switzerland  has known since 2006 that the attribution to Mondrian has been questioned.
The records show that Mondrian expert Joop Joosten, who co-wrote a definitive 1998 catalog of Mondrians abstract works, inspected the painting himself in 1994 and again in 2004.
Both times he rejected it.
In 2006, according to the RKD, Mr. Joosten informed the paintings owner that it was most likely a copy.
Mr. Joosten, who is over 90 years old and in poor health, could not be reached for comment, according to the RKD.
None of the art institutions or individuals involved would disclose the name of the collector, but Beatrix Ruf, director of the Stedelijk Museum, said in an interview that he was an established figure whose works have never been questioned before.
Ms. Ruf said that she first saw the work at the home of its Swiss owner in 2015, and discussed the possibility of exhibiting it.
In 2016, the work was sent to at the Stedelijk for research.
At the time, according to a statement issued by the museum, the Stedelijk was unaware of any doubts about the paintings authenticity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sophie Lauwers, head of exhibitions at Bozar, explained in a phone interview that her institution isnt a museum, but rather a center for the arts, and that it doesnt have capacity to do authentication research, but they always partner with established curators and museums.
We labeled it according to the information we got from the Stedelijk, she said, adding, I think both of us were really handling it in good faith.
Hans Janssen, Mondrian expert and curator of modern art at the Gemeentemuseum in The Hague, which owns more works by the artist than any other museum in the world, said he found it odd that he had not been consulted, because the Gemeentemuseum has studied hundreds of Mondrians.
It makes the acting and policy of the Stedelijk Museum a bit amateurish, he wrote in an email.
John T. Spike, chief curator at the Muscarelle Museum of Art in Williamsburg, Va. and specialist on issues of authentication, said that the Stedelijk seems to have followed a fairly typical protocol for handling a potential loan.
It did not exhibit the painting without research, and allowed Mr. Hanssen to carry it out when he asked.
But he added, the Stedelijk did recommend the painting to the Bozar.
This thing does boil down to: why did they recommend it when it didnt come with any authoritative backing, to our knowledge?
he said.
Considering that theres an expertise center on Mondrian no more than an hour away, why didnt they rely on that expertise?
Thats a definite lapse there.
The Stedelijks statement says it believes the task of a museum is to promote art, try to show works that are not yet known to the public and in order to do so, build connections with private collectors.
It is not the role of a museum to determine authenticity of a work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In response to this statement, France Desmarais, director of programs and partnerships for the International Council of Museums in Paris, which has established codes of ethics for art institutions, said, Its more complicated than that.
If museums are trusted its because we have a track record of honest and ethical conduct that is based on scientific and academic research, she said.
Research, due diligence, are part of the museums prime responsibility.
We need to be wary of our interaction with the private market, which includes private collectors and dealers, Ms. Desmarais said.
Theyre an important source of collection from museums and theres a really important relationship that needs to be cared for and preserved, but we cannot take for granted that what a reputable collector collects is all authentic or has all good provenance.
Fewer art institutions these days have in-house authentication experts who can do the kind of vetting that used to be a more common part of museum practice, said Mr. Spike.
We have a scarcity of experts in the world and for years art graduate schools have taught that connoisseurship is a kind of mumbo jumbo magic, he said.
When I started in the 1970s there were generations of people who were connoisseurs and they were very, very good.
Ultimately, he added, when trying to make sure that a painting is properly attributed, its like going to the doctor, you always need more than a second opinion.
Sometimes even a third.
The only thing more impressive than the fact that Anthony Esteves, who is 31, built a house from scratch and painstakingly restored another on his family compound on coastal Maine is the fact that hed never done it before.
This is not to say he hadnt had any training, but it was not the kind you might assume: At RISD, he studied not architecture but sculpture, which I think now comes through in my work more so than ever, he says.
I got out of school and figured out over a couple years that the building process was really like my studio practice.
Other than that, he was armed with only a deep and abiding appreciation for the architecture of both New England and Japan (having grown up in the former and spent time in the latter) and a passion for research.
When the property was purchased, it had just one structure, a 1754 Cape Cod that had been dismantled and rebuilt; he restored it not according to strict historical preservation standards  I feel like its so constricting, and people do things just for the yield, he says  but, rather, to his vision of what a historic building should be.
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier.
Please upgrade your browser.
ON THE WINDSWEPT southern side of Marthas Vineyard, at the end of a rural road that emerges from a dark copse of oak trees, sit two austere, inky-black farmhouse-style buildings  a studio and a private residence  that compose Chilmark House.
Designed by the New Haven, Conn., firm Gray Organschi Architecture with Aaron Schiller, founder of the New York City-based Schiller Projects, the home, which was built for Schillers family, is clad in approximately 80 charred louvers he torched entirely by hand.
The striking ebony hue feels at once ancient and modern: Here is the enveloping matte darkness of Anish Kapoors Vantablack paint and the glittering primordial obsidian of lava rock.
In the foggy early morning light, as the heavy marine layer rolls off the Atlantic, the house emerges dark and startling, as though it was dipped in oil.
At other times of day, its opaque blackness, which seems to absorb all the light that surrounds it, acts as a kind of backdrop for the skys quicksilver mood changes.
Schiller, like an increasing number of Western architects and designers these days, created the houses arresting exterior using a process known as shou sugi ban, a centuries-old Japanese technique for preserving and finishing wood by charring it with fire.
The treatment  which leaves behind a dense, carbonized layer of blackness  has been around since at least the 18th century, though earlier examples exist.
It began as a practical process used mostly for fencing and the facades of rural homes and storehouses, which held valuables, like rice, that families hoped to protect from blazes.
Interestingly, while it is no longer as popular as it once was in Japan, its found new life in the West.
Its become quite stylish, says Marc Keane, a landscape architect and author who has lived and worked in Kyoto for 18 years, but in the past, in Japan, it was considered countrified.
Shou sugi ban is the Westernized term for what is known in Japan as yaki sugi-ita (or just yakisugi), which translates loosely into burned cedar board.
(Although in English sugi is colloquially defined as cedar, its actually Cryptomeria japonica, a Cypress-family species indigenous to Japan.)
To achieve the effect, planks of wood are treated with heat on their outward faces only: Traditionally, three boards are tied together lengthwise to form a triangular tunnel.
The interior is then set on fire and the scorched surface cooled with water.
Its a counterintuitive but ingenious idea: heating wood to render it fireproof.
If youve ever tried to rekindle a campfire using burnt logs, you get the idea.
The combustion also neutralizes the cellulose in the wood  the carbohydrates that termites, fungus and bacteria love  making it undesirable to pests and resistant to rot.
The resulting charcoal layer repels water and prevents sun damage as well.
By some estimates, boards that have undergone this process can last 80 years or more, but Japans Buddhist Horyuji Temple in Nara prefecture, whose five-story pagoda is one of the worlds oldest extant wooden structures, has been around for much longer.
Initially built in A.D. 607, the pagoda caught fire and was rebuilt in 711 using shou sugi ban.
Were interested in your feedback on this page.
Tell us what you think.
Advertisement

A Short List of What We Like Right Now A new Malick Sidib retrospective, designer building blocks  and a dream house in Brazil.
Image Malick Sidibs photographs, from left, Nana Tour (1973), and Untitled (date unknown).
Credit Left: Malick Sidib, Nana Toure, 10 Janvier 1973 Tirage Unique dEpoque Malick Sidib, courtesy Galerie Magnin-A, Paris.
Right: Malick Sidib, Sans titre, Tirage Unique dEpoque Malick Sidib, courtesy Galerie Magnin-A, Paris

Now Showing: A Beautiful Life

Next month, Malick Sidib, the photographer known for his black-and-white images of youth culture in Mali, will have his biggest retrospective since his death last year.
Opening at the Fondation Cartier in Paris, Malick Sidib: Mali Twist features more than 125 never-before-seen images, to be displayed alongside his iconic shots of sub-Saharan hipsters showing off their bell-bottoms, wristwatches, radios and James Brown records, and couples dancing barefoot, their heads nearly touching, to music we can no longer hear.
Malick loved young people, says co-curator Andr Magnin, who sifted through thousands of Sidibs negatives for the show.
For 30 years, he went to all their parties and took pictures.
Born around 1935 in the village of Soloba, Sidib herded sheep until he began attending school at age 10, where his drawings would earn him a spot at the cole des Artisans Soudanais.
After graduation, he became an apprentice to the French expatriate society photographer Grard Guillat.
His subjects, whose embrace of rock n roll signaled autonomy from both the countrys colonial past and its then-new Socialist government, exude more than style.
As Magnin says, It was a time of great hope.
LESLIE CAMHI

Image From left: a printed silk skirt, wool cardigan and embroidered sweater from the collection, gucci.com ; an original illustration by Downie.
Credit Courtesy of Gucci

Portraits in Whimsy

The London-based artist Helen Downie considers herself unstylish: Mostly I walk around in scruffy, paint-splattered clothes, the 52-year-old says.
That didnt deter Gucci designer Alessandro Michele, who first collaborated with Downie in 2015 after coming upon the colorful, faux-nave Gucci-clad characters on her Instagram feed, @unskilledworker .
Now, the pair is working together on a 40-piece capsule collection that features the artists sketches printed or embroidered onto sweaters, handbags, T-shirts and more.
An A-line skirt serves as canvas for a quirky couple  he in a black mask, she with a snake wrapped around her lacy dress  standing with their pet cat.
Another couple, this one with a cherubic red-haired child, adorn a flowing, floral-patterned silk dress.
Downie, a former jewelry designer who taught herself to paint only four years ago, finds inspiration in sources as disparate as troubadours, exotic animals and her familys matriarchs.
The name of her mother-in-law, Jeanie, is tattooed on the arm of a character featured on a silk blouse, one of Downies favorite pieces in the collection.
ALINA COHEN

Advertisement

Image From left: Carrara marble shapes from Bloc Studios x Apartamento magazine, $233, luisaviaroma.com .
Architects Cubes designed by John Bennett and Gustavo Bonevardi, $58, store.moma.org .
Balancing Blocks from Fort Standard, $48, fortstandard.com Credit From left: Nacho Alegre; Courtesy of Moma Design Store; FS Objects

Design Report: Block Party

Not just for children, designer building blocks offer an artful dose of calm.
Image Herons with sapphires and black spinels and a pair of fennec foxes sitting on a bed of pearls and garnets.
Prices upon request, vancleefarpels.com Credit Van Cleef & Arpels

Jewelry: Wild Things

The artist and theater director Robert Wilson is best known for his inherently grand productions, from Madama Butterfly to Einstein on the Beach, the five-hour avant-garde opera he collaborated on with the American composer Philip Glass.
But for an N.Y.C.-based installation he designed for Van Cleef & Arpels, he had to think on a smaller scale.
To showcase the French jewelers new LArche de No (Noahs Ark) collection  an assortment of over 60 pairs of jeweled brooches including diamond-studded kangaroos and doves carrying leaves of pink sapphires  Wilson transformed a room inside the Cedar Lake performance space in Chelsea.
Standing in for the ark is a 19-inch ships hull, fabricated from wood and based on an Inuit model made of whalebone, which hangs from the ceiling.
Embedded in the walls of the space are illuminated glass curiosity boxes, in which 41 of the sparkly creatures will be displayed.
They look like stars at twilight, Wilson says of the pieces, which will be on view Nov. 3-19.
With the proper lighting, small objects become big.
ALLY BETKER

Image Credit Tuca Reines

Now Booking: A Dream House in Bahia

Eight years ago, Wilbert Das, the former creative director of the Italian clothing label Diesel, opened Uxua Casa Hotel in Trancoso, Brazil, a 16th-century beachside colonial village.
The Bahian town had long attracted South Americans and in-the-know Europeans, but the hotel, with its tropical candy-colored palette and low-key atmosphere, put it on the map for stylish Americans.
This month, Uxua debuts a new addition to the property  a sunlit three-bedroom cottage that sits independent from the rest of the 11-casa resort, and adjacent to the town squares coral stone church (which dates back to 1586).
This is the best-located house in Trancoso, so I always had my eye on it, says Das, who designed the interiors himself.
Seafoam green and flamingo-pink walls frame a collection of both vintage and custom pieces, including chairs and benches from the So Paulo avant-garde artist Rodrigo Almeida, an old work table from a local boat-builder that Das reimagined as a dining table, raffia pendant lights and decorative silk saris from India and Africa that have been repurposed as curtains.
Outside, theres a garden filled with scarlet bougainvillea and banana and cacao trees that, Das says, we use to make our own chocolate.
JOHN WOGAN

Image Credit Konstantin Kakanias

Hot Wheels

In 2007, Walt Siegl left New York, his home of 20 years, and his career as a cultural representative with the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to move to an old textile mill in New Hampshire.
There, he turned his hobby of souping up Italian motorcycles into a full-time job.
Now theres a two-year wait for one of his impeccable custom machines.
(Brad Pitt is set to receive his third creation by Siegl, whose bikes are coveted by connoisseurs for their stripped-down elegance and structural perfection.)
I take the time to pay full attention to every detail, to show mechanical components as objects of beauty, Siegl says.
In addition to one-of-a-kind custom projects, he also offers ready-made models: the sleek Leggero, the chunkier Bol DOr and the new off-road Adventure, out this month.
For all three, Siegl takes apart brand-name bikes (Ducati and MV Agusta) and rebuilds them with specialty materials  Kevlar and carbon fiber in place of plastic, chromoly in place of regular steel.
The result is a drastically lighter, more technologically advanced machine.
On the bikes fuel tanks, Siegl affixes his trademark, the outline of a wheel with a flower at its center thats inspired by childhood memories of picking wild blooms for his mother near their home outside of Graz in southeastern Austria.
When I came to the States, I couldnt believe how much attitude is involved in motorcycling, Siegl says.
To ride, you need to have a big heart.
Theres no need to act tough.
SAM DEAN

Image Credit Brooke Holm

The Thing: Baroque Shimmering Gems

The Swiss jewelry designer Suzanne Syz , who came of age in Manhattans downtown art scene during the 1980s, prefers things a little mismatched.
Instead of choosing classic cuts and combinations for her one-of-a-kind pieces, she pairs vibrant coarse gems that seem to have been scooped from an enchanted riverbed with stones that have been perfectly polished and refined.
For these earrings, which are topped by clusters of raw spinels in shades from merlot to lavender, she created shimmering spines of intricately fabricated diamond discs  the vertebrae separated by tiny seed pearls to hide the titanium armatures.
A huge, baroque Burmese sapphire dangles at each earrings end, like a lantern on a bejeweled cord, illuminating a path through the rocky darkness.
Price upon request.
NANCY HASS

Image Credit Mari Maeda and Yuji Oboshi

Another Thing: Dramatic Lava Lamp

In an age of recessive, even polite, design, Anna Karlin s Lava Light lamp unapologetically commands both your attention and a vast swath of a rooms real estate.
Mysterious and even a little forbidding, it stands erect, like a chunk of fuselage thats broken off from an interstellar vessel and lodged itself in a volcanic boulder on the moon.
That is not, in fact, far from the truth: The British-born, New York-based Karlin handpicks each lava rock from a quarry near Los Angeles and, using 3D imaging, cuts a precise slot for the towering 6-foot curved brass structure, which in turn flashes a slash of LED light.
The back is a dramatic matte black  perhaps it was charred in the wreck.
Price on request.
NANCY HASS
Photo

As a slew of smaller galleries have struggled and closed recently in a highly competitive art market, new ventures are cropping up, too.
Joining the mix of edgier spaces on New Yorks Lower East Side is the Sara Kay Gallery, opening Sept. 28 in an 1890 townhouse at 4 East 2nd Street  the former home of the Rivington Arms gallery.
Ms. Kay founded the nonprofit Professional Organization for Women in the Arts in 2008, to support women working in the visual arts business, and plans to emphasize the work of female artists in her new gallery.
They will include Natalie Frank, known for her feminist take on Grimm fairy tales.
Ms. Kay is retaining the exposed brick and wide plank floors of the 1,000-square-foot, sky-lit gallery.
Pulling together threads of her 20-year career working with old master drawings at Christies, the Marina Picasso estate at the Jan Krugier Gallery and as a director of the contemporary art gallery White Cube in London, she aims to create conversation among artworks from different genres, she said.
The inaugural exhibition, A Limitless Vision: The Collection of Audrey B. Heckler, will show pieces from Ms. Hecklers exceptional trove of works by self-taught artists such as Martn Ramrez, Alose Corbaz, Madge Gill, Adolf Wlfli and James Castle.
Ms. Kay will also display hand-painted ceramics by Picasso and a cast by Dubuffet  artists who found inspiration in outsider art.
Dubuffet had an enormous collection of Art Brut, or raw art, said Ms. Kay, and was really a champion of this genre.
Mr. Hammonss Gansevoort installation is expected to feature a ghostlike image of the original Pier 52 building on that site, according to those who have been briefed on the project  an open minimalist framework of what had originally been there, like a pencil line drawing in space.
The project would rest on 12 pilings  five of them on the peninsula, with a sixth out at the end of it and another six in the water to the south.
Mindful that a judge had objected to the Diller parks proposed use of concrete to fill in some of Pier 55s 550 pilings, the Whitneys installation involves the construction of no solid surfaces like a floor, walls or platforms.
The importance of communicating with neighborhood groups and potential opponents was one of the lessons that Whitney officials learned from Diller Islands cautionary tale.
Opponents of the Diller project  chiefly, a civic group backed by Douglas Durst of the New York real estate family  had criticized the secrecy surrounding the island and its potential danger to a protected Hudson estuary.
Mr. Diller, the chairman of IAC/InterActive Corporation, and his wife, the fashion designer Diane von Furstenberg, had agreed to underwrite the undulating island park and cultural hub at the foot of West 13th Street.
The cost had mushroomed to more than $250 million from $35 million over six years because of the complexity of the plans  by the British designer Thomas Heatherwick  and the delays caused by legal battles over issues like Pier 55s placement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Diller and Whitney projects might seem unrelated at first.
But in fact, both were being overseen by the Hudson River Park Trust, and both were located in waters that became the subject of environmental concerns in lawsuits.
Richard Emery, a lawyer for the opponents of the Diller project, said his clients would have had to sign off on the Whitney project as part of a larger legal settlement over the island park.
Specifically, the opponents of the park were negotiating with the Hudson River Park Trust on protections for the estuary area that would have included both the island and the art installation.
Mr. Diller said in an interview that he had only just learned about the extent of the Whitney project, but that neither the art installation itself nor the lack of information about it affected his decision to pull the plug on his island.
Mr. Hammons, the famously elusive African-American artist whose work is coveted by institutions the world over, had some time ago proposed to the Whitney a sculpture that would recall Pier 52s shipping history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The artist, whom the Times critic Holland Cotter recently described as a star, known for his formal and conceptual brilliance and his unpredictable ways, is difficult to pin down for museum shows as well as interviews.
(His spokeswoman referred calls to the Whitney.)
His work, which deals with issues of race and beauty, ranges from bejeweled basketball hoops to defaced fur coats to a sweatshirts hood, pinned to a wall.
The pier project is likely to be Mr. Hammonss first large-scale permanent outdoor work; the Whitney would have to raise funds to cover its undisclosed cost.
Photo

The artwork would have to be approved by the trust, which has been initially receptive.
The Whitney approached the trust with an idea for a highly site-specific project that would reflect the southern edge of Gansevoorts physical and artistic history and role in the working waterfront, Madelyn Wils, president of the Hudson River Park Trust, said in a statement.
We think its an inspiring idea and look forward to hearing the communitys thoughts before pursuing it further.
The Whitney has been careful to try to enlist potential opponents early on, like Deborah J. Glick, the Democratic assemblywoman whose district includes the pier, and who had very publicly complained that the trust had not been open about the islands private funding.
Ms. Glick said she had breakfast several months ago with Mr. Weinberg, who laid out the Whitneys proposal for the installation but did not leave her with a rendering or description, saying that the Whitney did not want word to get out about the project before it had been approved by the museums board.
My impression was, it was a rather skeletal, tubular, very open form that would be a reminder of the historic piers that once lined the waterfront, Ms. Glick said of the artwork.
It didnt seem to be something with the same physical impact as the Diller project, she added.
In my mind, it wouldnt interfere with plans for the area.
The surprise discovery came at the conclusion of a project that was spread over three years and a hectic two weeks  necessitated by limited financing and availability.
Atlantic Ocean 100 Miles SCOTLAND North Sea N. IRELAND ENGLAND Irish Sea IRELAND BRITAIN WALES London Celtic Sea Boxford English Channel FRANCE

Among the first to spot it was Joy Appleton, who leads the Boxford History Project and who was a driving force behind the excavation.
I was stunned into silence, Ms. Appleton recalled of her first sight of the small red tiles, each the size of her fingernail.
Which is unusual.
The expert on site, Matt Nichol, was equally surprised.
I will never forget that moment, said Mr. Nichol, a professional archaeologist who was supervising the dig.
It was down to the volunteers, it really was.
I get quite emotional about it; it was something to see their drive, added Mr. Nichol, project officer for Cotswold Archaeology, a company whose normal work includes helping real estate developers preserve archaeological finds.
Experts say the mosaic at what is now called Boxford villa depicts Bellerophon, a hero of Greek mythology who was sent to kill the chimera, a fire-breathing monster with the head of a lion, the torso of a goat and the tail of a serpent.
Hercules is also thought to be featured, fighting a centaur, and so is Cupid.
According to Anthony Beeson, a specialist in classical art and member of the board of the Association for Roman Archaeology, the discovery is important for several reasons.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is so unusual because it has all sorts of quirks which you dont expect, and it has subjects on it that are completely alien to mosaics in this country, he said.
Photo

Some figures breach geometric borders and there seems to be a trompe loeil effect.
Mr. Beeson added that he could not think of another Roman mosaic in this country that is as creative as this one.
There are inscriptions, too, though only about one-third of the mosaic was excavated and the full text was not uncovered.
The execution is uneven, Mr. Beeson said, suggesting that the mosaicist has had ideas above his technical ability, producing what he called a very sophisticated design done in a slightly nave manner.
Boxford villa had been marked  inaccurately, as it turned out  on an old map.
(It later turned out that the site was disturbed in the 19th century, when the installation of a land drainage pipe damaged part of the mosaic.)
With much to be revealed, there is still a lot to learn about life at Boxford villa, though its owner must have been affluent and cultured, and clearly wanted to show off a broad knowledge of mythology to guests.
Mr. Beeson says he believes that it is really vital that we at least see what the other part of the mosaic is like; its too important not to investigate.
For Ms. Appleton, the discovery has filled in part of a missing link in the history of Boxford, a village of around 300 inhabitants.
Evidence of Stone, Bronze and Iron Age life had been discovered, and there is a Saxon window in the local church that dates to the period before the Norman invasion of 1066.
Given the geographical location, and the quality of the agricultural land, Ms. Appleton was confident that this was also the site of a Roman settlement, a conviction reinforced by the discovery of several artifacts from that period.
Photo

So Ms. Appleton and her group pressed ahead.
Survey work began in 2012, and there were discoveries at two nearby sites during digs in 2015 and 2016.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Without expert archaeological knowledge, the Boxford History Project secured help from the Heritage Lottery Fund, a national charity funded by lottery receipts, to pay for professional supervision during a project made up of short excavations conducted on three sites in three consecutive years.
By chance, Mr. Nichol, who supervised the dig, does not live far away, an irony that is not lost on an archaeologist who has traveled to the Western Sahara, Macedonia and Serbia in search of antiquities, only to discover something so spectacular so close to home.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I never believed it could have been in Boxford, 30 minutes drive from home, he said.
What happens to the site into the future remains unclear because, once exposed to the atmosphere, a mosaic deteriorates quickly unless it is preserved.
Ms. Appleton and Mr. Nichol hope to uncover the rest of it next year, though that will depend on whether funding can be raised.
But even if they do, making it available for public view would be costly.
Just lifting it and removing it from the site would cost hundreds of thousands of pounds.
In fact, there was little choice about an immediate solution  which was to bury it in the earth that had protected it for so long because the farmer needed his land back to plant his wheat crop.
More Reporting on Archaeology

Even that step proved nerve-racking because there was no money to pay for security to prevent treasure hunters from damaging or destroying the mosaic.
The risks increased when, the day before the mosaic was covered over, the site was opened to friends and families of the volunteers who had worked there, increasing the number of people who knew the location.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

So for the organizers, it was a relief, rather than a disappointment, when the earth was pushed back to conceal their discovery.
The night before that was done, Mr. Nichol decided to keep watch over the site from his S.U.V.
with a supply of food, a sleeping bag and a bottle of red wine, all donated by volunteers.
The Roman owner of the villa would have invited guests to eat and drink on this spot, using the mosaic as a talking point, so a mildly bacchanalian vigil did not seem out of place.
I was on my own in the field; it was incredible, Mr. Nichol said.
He described how, in the solitude, he felt drawn back across the centuries to experience a unique connection to the more-than-1,600-year-old archaeological site, and to the mythological images of its extraordinary, colorful mosaic.
The wine did help, he added.
Photo

Accented with dusty pink carpeting and velvety elephant-ear plants, Eny Lee Parkers exhibition booth at the Sight Unseen Offsite fair in New York last May was as modern as it was earthy; a Pantone time capsule of how we decorate now.
The 28-year-old designer and ceramist filled the space with furniture that felt unattached to the whims of trend, however, with mixed-media pieces like a glass coffee table with juglike terracotta legs and a lamp with a cone-shaped ceramic base and an upturned metal shade.
For the clay elements in her designs, Parker employs a unique technique: She applies a clear glaze, sandblasts it to remove the high gloss and finally coats the pieces with beeswax, which deepens their tone.
I love that terracotta is so accessible, and that you pull it up from the ground, says the Savannah, Ga., resident and graduate of its College of Art and Design.
A self-professed neutrals person, Parkers aesthetic is informed by a measure of Faye Toogood and Constantin Brancusi, as well as global references including her childhood in Brazil  you see crafts there everywhere, and I wanted to use traditional methods of fabrication in a contemporary environment  and an adolescence spent helping her mother, a pattern maker, in the Los Angeles garment district.
Recently formative was the trip to her parents native Korea two years ago, where at a market in Gyeonju City, the countrys oldest town, she fell in love with a traditional gray pottery tea set with white carvings and a round spout.
She returned to Savannah intrigued and ready to try her hand at throwing.
I wanted to use the potters wheel to create furniture, which was very ambitious, especially for the size of things that you have to throw, she admits.
It was a lot of YouTubing and asking actual potters that know what theyre doing, and trying to do my best.
Photo

Beforehand, Parker was focused on welding, a skill she puts to use in some of her work, including spindly-legged steel planters and green-velvet-upholstered chairs with powder-coated steel frames, as well as a trim wabi-sabi vanity table with a sliding mirror.
I like to keep it geometric and simple, she says.
The terracotta pieces are so much more about the forms, and the welded pieces, about the lines.
Her affinity for form has extended to a line of ceramic earrings  smooth links of bone, terracotta and black clay that put the earth-toned world she creates in the palm of a hand.
Next up for Parker is a collaboration with a brand that employs Filipino artisans to make sculptural wicker mobiles from banana fibers, and eventually a line of clothing for artists and designers, created in partnership with her mother and stepbrother.
I designed pieces that you could get dirty: a jumpsuit, a pair of pants, a tee and a work belt.
But her dream project?
Designing a home for Solange.
Photo

LONDON  People lining up at a ticket booth under a Ferris wheel.
Police officers questioning a skeleton figure as his dog looks on.
Two new Banksys have popped up at the Barbican Center here, authenticated on Sunday by the British graffiti artist on his Instagram account.
The pieces, which refer to the work of the American artist Jean-Michel Basquiat, appear to herald the start of a major exhibition of Basquiats work, opening on Thursday at the Barbican Center.
Photo

Major new Basquiat show opens at the Barbican  a place that is normally very keen to clean any graffiti from its walls, Banksy wrote alongside the black-and-white image of the Ferris wheel, which displays crowns  a popular Basquiat motif  instead of passenger cars.
Under the image of the boy and the police, a reference to Basquiats 1982 Boy and Dog in a Johnnypump, Banksy wrote: Portrait of Basquiat being welcomed by the Metropolitan police  an (unofficial) collaboration with the new Basquiat show.
The artworks are perhaps a homage.
Basquiat, who died of a suspected drug overdose at 27, in 1988, began his career as a graffiti artist before going on to become a celebrated art-world figure, acclaimed for his primitive, boldly colored figures, textual fragments and raw imagery that often referred to African history, slavery and colonialism.
The Barbican exhibition, Boom for Real, is the first large-scale British show of Basquiats work and will feature over 100 works as well as notebooks, photographs and archival materials.
Chris Aronson, Foxs president of domestic distribution, noted that The Secret Service had the benefit of Valentines Day falling on its opening Saturday, which undoubtedly boosted results.
It was also Presidents Day weekend, and so Im really happy that The Golden Circle  with no holiday boost  opened to a bigger number, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

You also need to look at the global story, Mr. Aronson continued.
There is significant growth overseas.
Indeed, The Golden Circle vastly improved on the results for its franchise predecessor in countries like Britain, Australia and Russia.
In total, The Golden Circle collected $61 million at the foreign box office over the weekend.
At home, second place for the weekend went to It (Warner Bros.), which collected about $30 million, for an astounding three-week domestic total of $266.3 million.
This movie has turned into the definition of a zeitgeist hit, said Jeff Goldstein, Warners president of domestic distribution.
The worldwide total for It now stands at $478 million.
But Warner stumbled with The Lego Ninjago Movie, which arrived in third place with $21.2 million in ticket sales  sharply less than box office analysts had predicted going into the weekend.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
It was a much younger audience than we were hoping for, Mr. Goldstein said, noting that 46 percent of the Ninjago audience was under 18.
The movie played in 4,047 domestic theaters and cost roughly $70 million to make, not including marketing.
The animated Ninjago, based on a ninja-themed line of toys, is part of a Lego-based cinematic universe that Warner has called a business pillar, with additional original installments and sequels exploring different genres planned for the next decade.
But the future of the Lego movie franchise is now a serious question.
The first Lego movie arrived to a whopping $69 million in ticket sales in 2014.
A Batman-themed follow-up had $53 million earlier this year.
And now comes Ninjago with $21.2 million.
The free-fall does not bode well for The Lego Movie 2, which is scheduled for release in 2019.
Many people in Hollywood say the reason for declining returns is obvious: Warner, in search of franchises, released too many Lego movies too quickly.
Ninjago may also have suffered from lackluster reviews, niche subject matter and a feeling among consumers that the property best lives on television; Cartoon Network has found success with the animated series Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu.
Also of note over the weekend:

Battle of the Sexes (Fox Searchlight), set in the 1970s and starring Emma Stone and Steve Carell as tennis rivals, arrived in 21 theaters in seven cities and took in about $525,000, a solid result.
Results were also strong for Victoria and Abdul, which was released by Focus Features in four theaters and collected $152,000.
The film stars Judi Dench as Queen Victoria and Ali Fazal as a young Indian associate.
Stronger (Lionsgate and Roadside Attractions), the well-reviewed story of Jeff Bauman, who lost both his legs above the knee in the terrorist bombings of the Boston Marathon in 2013, arrived on 574 screens and collected $1.75 million.
Jake Gyllenhaal plays Mr. Bauman.
Photo

Every so often an exceptionally capable woman has to prove her worth by competing against a clown.
Thats one of the durable truisms of Battle of the Sexes, a glib, enjoyable fictionalization of the 1973 exhibition tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs.
She was 29 and one of the top female tennis players in the world.
He was 55 and had been a world champion before she was born.
She was a feminist symbol and the first female athlete to win more than $100,000 in a single year; he was a self-avowed male chauvinist pig who liked to gamble big.
It was a man vs. woman match made for maximum public-relations gimmickry but also a deadly serious referendum on equality on and off the court.
So it was personal and it was political, which Battle of the Sexes gets.
It was also entertainment, which is where the movie really excels.
Nice and easy, it sets the players and early 1970s scene, with Billie Jean (Emma Stone) already making history and Bobby (Steve Carell) largely sidelined.
Shes making waves as a player and as a champion of womens rights, including equal pay, and earning plaudits from the likes of President Nixon.
Bobby seems to be living off his indulgent wealthy wife (Elisabeth Shue), a frozen smiler right out of Stepford, and spending time on idle in a fancy office.
Mostly, Billie Jean is winning while Bobby is keeping boredom at bay.
The directors Valerie Faris and Jonathan Dayton make these early scenes pop, cramming characters and information into Billie Jean and Bobbys separate realities.
Billie Jeans is livelier, more engaging, partly because theres more at stake and because shes surrounded by chummy, pleasurably prickly women like Rosie Casals (Natalie Morales) and Gladys Heldman (a tangy Sarah Silverman), the founder of Tennis World magazine.
Together with seven other top female players, these three form a feminist revolt called the Virginia Slims tour, a womens pro circuit that sets out to combat the gross inequalities that defined professional (open) tennis since its advent in 1968.
As the sunny, sporty feminists stake their rightful claim  holding press conferences, drumming up support, winning and winning some more  a rather dark, clubbier male world comes into view.
A gambler, Bobby watches Billie Jean on TV but hangs with masters of the universe, male cigar chompers and scotch swirlers who think nothing of betting away a Rolls-Royce.
It looks like a lethal bore, as does Bobbys home, where he plays with his young son under a conspicuously large and looming portrait of his wife.
By the time Bobby is challenging Billie Jean to play it almost seems as if he were willing himself into the arms  or at least company  of this other woman.
It takes a while for them to meet on the court, partly because Billie Jean initially turns Bobby down.
So instead, he takes on Margaret Court (Jessica McNamee), the Australian champion who becomes the movies female heavy.
(The real Ms. Court has played that role off screen for her views on same-sex marriage and homosexuality, which shes branded a lust for the flesh.)
In a well-publicized faceoff soon called the Mothers Day Massacre, Bobby defeats Margaret, a loss that Billie Jean feels she needs to correct.
Its game on, though with complications, including Billie Jeans revelatory attraction to another woman, a hairdresser, Marilyn Barnett (Andrea Riseborough).
Photo

When are the Wegos coming on?
the young boy sitting next to me asked his father.
His impatience was reasonable enough.
Here we were, five minutes into The Lego Ninjago Movie, gazing at a live-action prologue with Jackie Chan, a kid and a cat in a store full of exotic knickknacks.
Soon enough, the Wegos awwived, and the latest installment in a nearly foolproof franchise was underway, a fast-moving mlange of brazen corporate promotion, winking pop-culture cleverness and earnest lesson-learning.
I realize that makes this movie sound indistinguishable from nearly every other piece of family-targeted animated big-screen entertainment out there, and Im sorry to report that the Lego movie enterprise has lapsed into intentional mediocrity.
This is especially disappointing given the conceptual wit, visual flair and bonkers imagination of The Lego Movie and the sweet silliness of The Lego Batman Movie.
The Lego Ninjago Movie, directed by Charlie Bean, Paul Fisher and Bob Logan from a script with an army of credited authors, attaches itself to some of the tropes and images of Asian action cinema with sloppy affection.
Mr. Chan, who voices a wise and venerable teacher in addition to playing the wise and venerable shopkeeper, doesnt really belong to the ninja genre.
But neither do the young fighters who protect the city of Ninjago from an evil four-armed warlord named Garmadon, voiced by Justin Theroux.
They prefer big, noisy machines to stealth, guile and swordsmanship.
Garmadon, who wants to be a mayor, is a megalomaniac whose regular assaults on peace and normalcy are breathlessly covered by the news media and whose favorite pastime is firing his underlings.
His estranged teenage son, Lloyd (Dave Franco), is ostracized and mocked for being the child of such a monster.
But Lloyd, whose alter ego is the Green Ninja, works behind the scenes to check his fathers worst tendencies.
Does every movie have to be a political allegory now?
Cant we just have fun?
Photo

Not as much as wed like to.
The Lego figures are rendered with playful rigor; their limited movements and expressions generate some amusing sight gags.
But the physical world they inhabit is more of a generic digital-cartoon space than a snapped-together environment.
And the themes they explore are tired, cynical, sub-Disney bromides about family reconciliation and self-discovery.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A dollop of mawkish sentiment is to be expected in this kind of movie.
The Lego Ninjago Movie applies it in gluey globs, freezing the action so that Lloyd and Garmadon can work out their issues.
For whose benefit?
Children are unlikely to be captivated by this unconvincing melodrama of abandonment and reconciliation, and adults will be moved by it only because were hopeless crybabies.
Were also, at least in the eyes of the committee that issued this strategy memo disguised as a movie, eager to hear the voices of cool people we watch on television.
Abbi Jacobson of Broad City, Fred Armisen of Portlandia and Kumail Nanjiani of Silicon Valley (and also The Big Sick) are on sidekick duty here, to no memorable effect.
Ms. Jacobsons character, the only girl in the six-ninja squad, barely rises to the level of tokenism.
Photo

Kill Elton John!
is a line youre unlikely to hear in the average spy caper, but Kingsman: The Golden Circle aims far above average.
Like its 2015 predecessor, this latest visit with the British agents-cum-Savile Row tailors swings for the fences without caring whose head  or torso, or dignity  is shredded en route.
Even if it belongs to Sir Elton.
In a plot as sloppy and extended as over-washed elastic, the singers cameo as the feathered-and-sequined pet of a drug-dealing villain named Poppy (Julianne Moore) is a ludicrous highlight.
A homesick sociopath, Poppy has styled her Cambodian lair to resemble Eisenhower-era America, including a diner where those who displease her are churned into Hamburger Helper.
(So thats what the first film was lacking: cannibalism.)
Bigger, longer and  at an interminable 141 minutes  apparently uncut, Circle is an emotionally sterile lark, its wounds inflicted with brolly and bullwhip, a smirk and a shrug.
Obliterating all but two Kingsmen in the opening reel, the story (by the director, Matthew Vaughn, and Jane Goldman) forces the leftovers into the protective arms of their American counterparts, cowboy spies with rolling hips and code names like Tequila and Champagne.
Their presence, led by a strutting Channing Tatum, lends the action a homoerotic glaze that I choose to believe is intentional.
Yet in a movie as happy to resurrect characters as rub them out, nothing is of consequence, and the glibness grows numbing.
As does the cocky masculinity: This is, after all, a mans world, and women had better get behind or beneath them if they want to survive.
Sir Elton will make it just fine on his own.
Photo

Stronger, the new movie directed by David Gordon Green, harks back to his work in the first decade of this century.
His All the Real Girls (2003) and Snow Angels (2007) brought acute, cleareyed, compassionate consideration to trauma and tragedy as they affect intimate relationships.
Unlike those pictures, though, Stronger carries a separate weight.
Its also about an actual galvanic event in recent American history.
Stronger is the story of Jeff Bauman, a resident of Chelmsford, Mass., who lost both his legs above the knee in the terrorist bombings of the Boston Marathon in 2013.
Video

The movie, based on Mr. Baumans autobiography, begins with a depiction of him as a relatively amiable screw-up.
Played by Jake Gyllenhaal, whos almost a decade older than Mr. Bauman was at the time of the events shown, the character is nevertheless a convincing man-child.
After making a grisly mess of a chicken-roasting task at the Costco where he works, Jeff repairs to his local, where he drinks and curses and makes moon-eyes at his ex-girlfriend Erin (Tatiana Maslany), a rather more directed soul whos popped in to collect donations for her marathon run.
Seizing on a notion to win her back, Jeff hand-letters a sign to brandish near the races finish line.
He sees one of the bombers moments before the explosion that costs him his legs.
For Mr. Bauman and his milieu, Mr. Green forgoes the standard Hollywood clichs about boisterous, hard-drinking, politically incorrect working-class Bostonians in favor of characters who are far, far, far more boisterous, hard-drinking and politically incorrect.
Its kind of terrifying.
For instance, Jeffs mother, Patty, in an astounding turn by Miranda Richardson, is a slovenly, resentful, egocentric drunk who frequently prioritizes her hangovers over Jeffs physical rehabilitation appointments.
For all that, the movie itself never judges its people.
Stronger takes more artistic risks than any other American-made inspired by true events picture I can recall.
The emotions and situations depicted, as Jeff struggles with PTSD, his immobility, his relationship with Erin and his hometown-hero status (which he believes to be completely unearned), are raw, sometimes desperate.
A scene late in the film in which Jeff begs not to be abandoned is played at such a high pitch that it flirts with, then transcends, bathos.
But as it approaches the two-hour mark, the movie seems to wake to the fact that it has to live up to its title.
Then Stronger rushes through what screenwriting gurus call the redemptive arc, with little concern for just how its lead character makes the life changes that enable him to face his responsibilities.
And in that respect, it brings the viewer up short.
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
Photo

Even when the pop music provocateur known as Lady Gaga seemed to be changing personae by the hour, one eyebrow-raising costume or public gesture after another, those paying proper attention could discern a disciplined, focused performer/musician behind the choreographed madness.
While the movie climaxes with preparations for Gagas strangely spectacular 2017 Super Bowl halftime show, it mostly chronicles the artist at work in 2016 on a project that would ostensibly present her unplugged, so to speak.
That would be her album Joanne, which, she tells the writer Darryl Pinckney in a disarming scene here, was inspired by an aunt who died before this artist was born as Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta.
(As Mr. Pinckney noted in his piece, for The Timess T Magazine, Gaga was named in part for her.)
Besides baring a heretofore-unseen part of her artistic soul, the movie finds her coping with heartache and physical ailments.
While its possible that the director and cinematographer Chris Moukarbel is good at withholding unflattering material, Gaga comes off well, and credibly so: intelligent, an accomplished craftswoman, a well-mannered collaborator and boss.
She does not inhabit the best of all possible worlds, though, for all her privilege.
Because Madonna is such an obvious antecedent (and she is mentioned here, specifically with respect to the tsoris surrounding Gagas reputedly Madonna-derived song Born This Way), this movie is bound to be compared to 1991s Truth or Dare.
But these are very different movies, because their subjects are very different people.
While Madonna was shown as the happy ringleader of a media circus, Five Foot Two depicts an artist and idol in a peculiar isolation.
Even when other people are in the frame, Gaga often seems sadly but necessarily alone.
Howard Weiner This amazingly powerful and beautiful (yes) film is nothing if not original.
Shocked by the film?
Get over it.
Mother!
has done what the writer-director set out to do: Provoke intelligent conversation after experiencing a film like youve never seen before.
Kas So this movie is about: 1) a middle-aged guy married to a woman 20 years his junior; 2) unspeakable violence done to a woman.
Sounds original!
Seriously, I think the most shocking thing about this is the idea that a couple can survive and own a home based on a poets salary.
Larry Hedrick Of course I was put off by the extremely violent, disgustingly orgiastic, and grotesquely barbaric nature of some of Aronofskys scenes; so was everyone else.
And yet there is more disturbing moving imagery of actual events in the recent human past on YouTube than the auteur has on offer here.
Dan Poulson I was never bored; piecing together the various symbols and clues became a treasure hunt.
My only complaint is that the film is structured as a kind of stations of the cross for the Jennifer Lawrence character, which necessarily means that she lacks any kind of real agency.
She spends the entirety of the film in a state of traumatized bewilderment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Rob DePiazza I dug the movie for its outlandishness and agree with A.O.
Scott about its comedic attributes, but I could barely tolerate the weakness of Lawrences character.
Joe Zamarelli Its funny to me the reviews that are so focused on the allegory aspect.
My experience watching was so much more about the relationship, what she was dealing with, and the themes of vampiric/selfish art, creation and celebrity.
Sarah Anne Rhodes Truly hated this movie.
The allegory was not lost on me, nor was the intentional absurdity of the plot.
Aronofskys point was made about an hour into the film, but he proceeded to beat a dead horse for the remaining hour.
David Hartman Mother!
has beautiful cinematography and may pretend to intellectual high-minded allegory, but in reality the repetitive theme of creation and destruction plays out more like Groundhog Day in hell than a biblical allegory.
If Tom Six (director of Centipede) used Bergmans cinematographer to film a script by Rob Zombie, youd have this movie.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Joshua Trimble Its been a long time since I overheard Ma and Pa Kettle talking about a film on the way out of the theater.
Art above all else should be misunderstood loudly.
Thomas Bracken Heres a free clue.
Watching your movie should explain the movie.
Sharon Sheppard It has been a long time since a movie affected me in such deep and weird ways and left me thinking about it for days afterward.
There were so many ideas going on my head felt it would explode, but in a good way.
Mother!
is not for those seeking escapist entertainment, but I would urge people to watch it and spend time arguing about it afterward.
David Michael Miller I saw it with my cousin and have since spent more time talking about it than we spent watching it.
Not many movies can dig that deeply into my brain.
If you think its easy, you go get a camera and do it.
Lynn I sat in the movie and asked myself, how does Darren Aronofsky know exactly how it feels to be married to my husband?
The dark lord materialized moments later.
Its not an ill-fitting nickname, at least cinematically.
On screen Mr. Aronofsky has conjured up all manner of ghoulish misbehavior and grotesqueries in Requiem for a Dream and Black Swan.
Mother!, an ambitious parable hidden in a horror flick, tops them easily.
What starts as a home-invasion psychological thriller ends in flaming nightmare surrealism, stuffed with themes that divided, and mystified, critics.
Mother!
will likely be 2017s most hated movie, declared the Verge, while others called it brilliant and an unparalleled achievement.
Its a hoot!
Scott wrote in The New York Times.
With a reported $30 million budget and an artistic sensibility usually reserved for the indie crowd, its a wild gamble as a major release for its studio, Paramount, especially on the heels of It, Warner Bros.s more traditional, and decipherable, horror blockbuster.
Even with the benefit of two Oscar winners in a usually surefire genre, and the frisson of a romance between the director and the leading lady, Mother!
underperformed its modest box office estimates after opening Sept. 15.
But if it alienates mass audiences, it could also be the slow-burn conversation piece of the year, with high-profile defenders including Anthony Bourdain, the Star Wars director Rian Johnson and Chris Rock.
On the surface, its about a couple, Ms. Lawrence and Javier Bardem, in a rambling, secluded Victorian house.
Hes a poet, with one major hit but troubled by writers block; she is renovating their home, forever tidying up.
Their placid life is dismantled by hordes of uninvited guests who wont leave.
All the symbolism  packed like a Russian nesting doll, with religious iconography, celebrity culture and military-industrial-state overtones  is in service of one grander idea, the allegory that moved Mr. Aronofsky to write the script in an uncharacteristically prolific five-day stretch.
I just pounded through it, kind of like a fever dream, he said.
But the allegory seems to have eluded many viewers, and Mr. Aronofsky and Ms. Lawrence disagreed about how much to reveal.
He wants people to go in blind, she said, which she felt was a shame.
Youre going to miss all of the detail and all of the brilliance behind the whole movie, she said.
My advice is to understand the allegory.
Mr. Aronofsky favored an unsuspecting audience, the better to enable interpretations, or astonish.
But, he said, looking at his girlfriend across the conference table, She can do whatever she wants.
Shes a genius marketer and clearly doesnt need any career advice from anyone, and knows how to sell a movie.
Ms. Lawrence: Are you being sarcastic?
He wasnt, and so, lets follow her lead.
Thematic spoilers ahead, but rest assured that even if you absorb them, the movie will throw curveballs.
Mother!
is about Mother Earth (Ms. Lawrence) and God (Mr. Bardem), whose poetic hit has the weight of the Old Testament: hence all the visitors clamoring for a piece of Him, as his character is called.
The house represents our planet.
(Walking the wooden floorboards in bare feet is what finally got the part to click, Ms. Lawrence said.)
The movie is about climate change, and humanitys role in environmental destruction.
Photo

The action takes place on the biblical sixth day (the films original title was Day Six, she said) and follows that timeline.
You have the creation of people, you have the creation of religion itself, people reading the same writing and arguing over its meaning, false idols, Ms. Lawrence said.
She got the religious references immediately.
I was a Bible nerd  Bible study every Sunday, she said, adding an expletive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Aronofsky, an environmentalist whos active with the Sierra Club, pitched her the concept, which she liked, yet she was still taken aback by the full vision in the script, which wreaks unyielding, gruesome havoc on her character.
When I first read it, she said, I didnt even want it in my house.
I thought it was evil, almost.
It drew her because shed never encountered anything like it.
What Ive always loved about Darren is, hes unapologetic and hes bold, she said, adding: I agreed with the films message wholeheartedly.
Its an assault, and it needs to be.
Alternative interpretations abound, though, including Mr. Bardems.
He acknowledged the environmental symbolism, but said that for him, the idea that resonated the most was what he called the birth of a religion as a cult, which divides more than it unites.
Playing God was a stretch, he said.
I couldnt relate, humanly speaking, he said.
But every time I went back to that allegory, I found my wisdom.
Other views lean on the relationship between the older, brilliant but narcissistic artist and his adoring, if unfulfilled, gorgeous young partner.
Mr. Bardem is 48, the same as Mr. Aronofsky; Ms. Lawrence is 27.
Mr. Aronofsky bristled at the suggestion that the screen dynamic might be perceived as mirroring that of auteur and megastar in real life.
How could it?
Our relationship didnt start until after the film happened, he said.
You know, we just had a great time together, and thats it.
Ms. Lawrence laughed.
Cant you tell from the movie?
As a couple, they can seem mismatched, Mr. Aronofsky the buttoned-up cineaste to her expressive exuberance.
It seems about right that he wanted to be tight-lipped about the movie and she didnt: little is off-limits with Ms. Lawrence.
Sitting in the anodyne conference room before he arrived, talk turned to motherhood.
My grandma went through early menopause, my mom went through early menopause, she said.
I handle stress like a  like a hummingbird, maybe?
Ill be like, 35, by the time I start drying up.
And thats on the record.
I want that to be a pull quote.
Im no Mother Earth!
Drying up as we speak!
Later, out of her earshot, Mr. Aronofsky said: Its always fun to be in a room with Jen.
Shes hilarious and real and truthful.
I apologize to all the filmgoers whod pre-bought tickets, he said.
I apologize most of all to them.
Ive let them down.
Neither Mr. Feng nor Huayi Brothers Media, the films main backer and distributor, have explained why the films release was abruptly canceled.
Huayi Brothers declined to comment when called.
But Zhan Jiang, a retired professor of journalism and communications at Beijing Foreign Studies University, said he thought it was definitely done for political reasons, a view shared by critics and fans who pointed to the party congress starting in Beijing on Oct. 18.
Its difficult to say whats problematic about the film, and there shouldnt be any major problems as it had already passed censorship, Mr. Zhan said.
But October is a special time, first because National Day is highly political, and even more important this year theres the 19th Party Congress.
About 2,300 delegates, most of them officials, will gather next month in the capital.
Historically, the party is wary of promulgating anything that is critical, controversial or even downbeat ahead of the meeting.
Users of Weibo, a popular microblogging site, suggested that Mr. Feng had delayed the release as a publicity stunt, or in fear of a poor showing at the box office.
But Mr. Feng said he had no choice.
There are rumors, but no solid facts, about what happened, Zhang Xianmin, a film critic in Beijing, said about the postponed release.
Its possible that this was all about boosting the market for the film, but there could also be substantial censorship problems.
Commercially, it doesnt seem to make sense to postpone.
Delaying distribution will certainly cost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chinese cultural officials have not commented on the delay of the release.
Security at the congress, like other big events in China, will be tight, a measure meant to ensure that no protests, accidents, controversies or surprises sully the spectacle.
Roads leading into Beijing are under tighter security, extra guards are manning buses in the city and officials and the police across China have been admonished to make sure nothing upsets the weeklong meeting.
The only thing that is certain is that pulling this was not a performance directed by Feng Xiaogang, one film enthusiast said on WeChat, a popular Chinese social media service.
Its problem probably has something to do with the war, the comment said.
Its not in keeping with the gentle warmth of this harmonious society.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many Chinese people, especially in Beijing, become inured to the restrictions and security that surrounds big official meetings.
Yet Mr. Feng and others who worked on Youth appeared surprised by the sudden cancellation after cinemas had already started selling tickets.
At the news conference, Mr. Feng did not disguise his frustration.
I tell you sincerely that right now Im feeling somewhat distraught, he said.
We wanted this film to hit the screens more than anyone.
Liang Pengfei, a Chinese film critic, wrote on a Chinese news site, Observer, that the losses caused by suddenly postponing the films release can be estimated to run to tens of millions in Chinese renminbi, which would be millions in dollars.
Mr. Feng, 59, is a popular director who has learned to work within, and sometimes adroitly nudge against, Chinas heavy boundaries of censorship.
He often sets his stories during dramatic historical events, such as Chinas massive Tangshan earthquake of 1976, and a famine in the 1940s.
Yet Mr. Feng also steers away from overt political messages, preferring to dwell on personal drama.
Youth adds a patina of romance to its depiction of Maos traumatic Cultural Revolution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As.
Mr. Zhan noted, Youth had already passed the scrutiny of Chinese censors, and it was shown at the Toronto Film Festival this month.
But the memories and themes evoked by the film may have prompted senior officials to reverse approval for its release during this sensitive political season.
Based on a novel of the same name, Youth tells the story of He Xiaoping, a young woman in a Peoples Liberation Army dance troupe, who ends up dragged into Chinas brief war with Vietnam in 1979.
Before she joined the troupe, her father was condemned as an enemy of the party and sent to a labor camp.
These hints at Chinas harsh past may have been too much for officials.
Under Mr. Xi, historians and writers have come under increased pressure to steer away from discussing the Cultural Revolution, the convulsive and often bloody political campaign that Mao launched in 1966.
The 50th anniversary of the start of the Cultural Revolution passed last year in near-total official silence, and unofficial commemoration was discouraged.
China went to war with Vietnam in 1979 after Deng Xiaoping, who had recently returned to power, pushed to punish Vietnam for occupying Cambodia and overthrowing the brutal Khmer Rouge regime, a Chinese ally.
The Peoples Liberation Armys incursions into Vietnam, however, did not go as planned, and even today some Chinese veterans of the war say their sacrifice and needs have been ignored by the government.
This is not extolling war, Mr. Feng said of Youth last month.
Its to make audiences see the cruelty and terror of war.
On Sunday, he said a new release date would be announced later.
This is not the first time the filmmaker has seen a release date abruptly changed.
Last year, his film I Am Not Madame Bovary was released in November, to disappointing box office results, after its National Day holiday release was also postponed, although commercial reasons may have figured then.
But times change, and Mr. Palen is now taking a more antagonistic approach.
All Types Welcome is a condemnation of blood donation rules set by the Food and Drug Administration that prohibit most gay or bisexual men from giving; before donating, they have to forgo same-sex sexual encounters for at least a year, a contentious precaution resulting from concerns about H.I.V.
Its exclusion, and its ridiculous, and its discriminatory, Ms. Lepore said in an interview.
Mark Burg, the producer who has helped steer the Saw franchise, was even more blunt.
We want this policy changed, he said.
An F.D.A.
spokeswoman, Lyndsay Meyer, noted that the celibacy rule, enacted in 2015, replaced a more restrictive policy.
While acknowledging at the time that the change to a 12-month deferral was less than hoped for by some, the F.D.A.
considered this to be a first step, Ms. Meyer said, adding that studies are underway to help inform further changes to policy.
The Red Cross, the nations largest blood supplier, has also drawn fire for its approach to transgender donors.
Until recently, federal guidelines recommended that trans people be required to register at blood centers under the gender they were assigned at birth.
Photo

The Red Cross believes all potential blood donors should be treated with fairness, equality and respect, Jodi D. Sheedy, a Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an email.
She added, Accurate donor histories and medically supported donor deferral criteria are critical to blood supply safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palen is one of Hollywoods savviest marketers, and his latest campaign reflects several trends, including a focus on diversity.
In the past, Mr. Palen has cast young women (most often white) as nurse mascots for the Saw blood drives.
Now we have different races, genders, ages and sexual orientations, he said.
Joining Ms. Lepore and Mr. Ross as twisted nurses are people like Nyakim Gatwech, a Sudanese model; a YouTube and Instagram star named Mykie; and the sexagenarian event producer Susanne Bartsch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While inclusion remains far from Hollywoods strength, many consumer brands have started to loudly ring the representation bell.
Last year, for instance, CoverGirl named its first cover boy and made a beauty blogger, Nura Afia, its first hijab-wearing cosmetics ambassador.
It is also notable that Mr. Palen is tapping into rage culture.
Hollywood marketers are mostly allergic to controversy, but nothing lights a fire on social media like indignation, and a growing number of advertisers are trying to spark thought-provoking discussions.
The North Face, for instance, indirectly references President Trumps plans for a Mexico border wall with its new Walls Are Meant for Climbing brand campaign.
The topical approach can backfire.
Just ask Pepsi and Kendall Jenner.
Its easy to be provocative, Mr. Palen said.
Its less easy to be provocative in a way that inspires people to see your movie.
The Saw nurses were an early example of what Hollywood types now like to call world building.
There are no major nurse characters in the movies (some of which are also not particularly bloody).
Rather, Mr. Palens creations are meant to add a layer of immersion for fans.
The first Saw nurse was a Lionsgate executive; Mr. Palen took her photo in his backyard and posted the image online to promote the blood drive.
Maybe a few horror fan sites covered it, he said.
There was no such thing as going viral back then.
In a snapshot of how powerful the internet has come as a marketing tool, Lionsgate now has roughly 420 million followers on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
To gain additional reach for the All Types Welcome effort, Mr. Palen recruited the eight social media stars.
Everyones making content, everyones a creator, everyone has a microphone, he said.
So to have the nurse campaign play in that space and have personalities feel some ownership in the campaign felt like a great way to evolve.
And no more backyard shoots for Mr. Palen, who took over a cavernous stage for two days  complete with a D.J.
and an open bar  this time around.
As the Pharrell Williams song Marilyn Monroe played toward the end of the second day, Ms. Lepore teetered on a stack of metallic boxes in white spike heels.
Sexy, fetish nurse doll is how Mr. Palen had described her look.
Amazing, he murmured, standing on tiptoe to take her picture.
When Mr. Palen was done, the 16 people in the room clapped, and Ms. Lepore did a little curtsy.
Text posted with the video on YouTube said, Russia is waging war on the U.S.  Morgan Freeman explains why we need to pay attention before its too late.
Mr. Freeman looks at the camera and intones: We have been attacked.
We are at war.
In the video, Mr. Freeman accuses Mr. Putin, the Russian president, of secretly using cyberwarfare around the world like the true K.G.B.
spy he is.
The Russians have used propaganda and false information to undermine world democracies and to sow distrust of their news media, their political processes and even their neighbors, Mr. Freeman continues, often pausing for dramatic effect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We need our president to speak directly to us and tell us the truth, he says.
Then, taking a seat behind a desk, Mr. Freeman outlines remarks that he says President Trump ought to make.
Mr. Freeman is no stranger to presidential politics  at least of the fictional kind.
In the 2013 movie Olympus Has Fallen, he played a speaker of the House who becomes the acting president after the president and vice president are taken hostage during an attack on the White House.
But Mr. Freemans dabbling in real-world politics provoked sharply worded criticisms from Russian officials and news outlets.
The BBC reported that the Rossiya 24 news channel had assembled psychiatrists who attributed his comments to a Messianic complex resulting from playing God in several films.
Vadim Zavodchenkov, a weatherman for the channel, said Mr. Freeman was ill because of overwork and marijuana use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Putins press secretary, Dmitri S. Peskov, said the accusations in the video were groundless and of an exclusively emotional character, the BBC reported.
Representatives for Mr. Freeman did not respond to emails on Friday evening.
Rob Reiner, the actor and producer, announced the creation of the Committee to Investigate Russia this week on Twitter.
He described it as trying to help Americans recognize and understand the gravity of Russias continuing attacks on our democracy.
Congressional committees are investigating, among other things, the Russian governments involvement in the election through an extensive social media campaign, targeted online ads and other methods.
Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, is also investigating connections between Russia and Mr. Trump and his associates, including whether they conspired to influence the election.
On Twitter on Friday, Mr. Trump called the investigations a hoax and said the Fake News Media wielded the greatest influence by supporting the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton.
Many creators have become so popular that theyre also working for studios, on everything from variant posters (Tracie Chings prints for The Jungle Book) to Blu-ray covers (Marie Bergerons illustrations for Takeshi Kitano films).
Last year, the illustrator Kyle Lambert created the official Stranger Things poster, his homage to classic hand-painted ones of the 1980s.
Today, there are galleries and digital archives (Repostered.com and AlternativeMoviePosters.com) devoted to the form.
And then there are the books, like the Crazy 4 Cult: Cult Movie Art series, Mr. Chojnackis Alternative Movie Posters (being published in French by Akileos in October) and, this month, The Art of Mondo, a lavishly illustrated history of the company.
The artists are an eclectic and talented bunch.
Here are seven to watch:

Photo

Tracie Ching

Washington

Ms. Ching has created gorgeous concert posters for Kings of Leon and graphics for small-batch beer cans (Brewdog Pump Action Poet).
But its her vibrant, spellbinding movie posters that have led to work at Sony (The Magnificent Seven) and AMC (Fear the Walking Dead).
She does official stuff, but there are a lot of rules from the studios about so-and-sos face has to be so big, Mr. Chojnacki said.
So I think shell always continue to do the alternative stuff, just for her fans.
Among his favorites: her takes on the Stanley Kubrick classics Dr. Strangelove and The Shining.
Photo

Marie Bergeron

Montreal

When Ms. Bergeron was enlisted to create a poster for The Godfather, she pictured a decapitated horse, neck bones exposed, rearing up on its hind legs.
For Apocalypse Now: a lone soldier, making his way upstream through a waist-deep river of blood.
Ms. Bergeron has created album covers, video-game-inspired triptychs, and a recruiting poster for Imperial stormtroopers (Support the Boys in White) for the Harper Design book Star Wars Propaganda.
She has a talent for painting emotions, Mr. Chojnacki said.
Every time you see one of her posters, you know its her.
Photo

Jason Edmiston

Toronto

A lover of all things spooky, Mr. Edmiston has tackled chain-saw-wielding killers and the pantheon of Universal monsters.
Among his best-loved works: his creepy, crayon-colored celebration of the Chiodo Brothers cult classic Killer Klowns From Outer Space, and his in-your-face take on John Carpenters 1978 slasher classic, Halloween, which captures the precise moment when Michael Myers bursts into the closet and starts stabbing.
Hes the guy I collected the most original art of, Rob Jones, Mondos creative director, said.
Over my wifes side of the bed is his Bride of Frankenstein, and over my side of the bed is Blacula.
Photo

We Buy Your Kids

Sydney

We Buy Your Kids is the Australian design duo of Sonny Day and Biddy Maroney, whose work has appeared on childrens books and album covers, premium cider labels and skate decks.
Their style, reminiscent of 1960s Polish film posters, bear little resemblance to the originals, let alone works by their poster-producing peers.
For the 1986 version of The Fly, the duo summed up one of the most viscerally disturbing sci-fi films in a single image of a finger dripping with goo.
Thats probably my favorite of theirs, Mr. Jones said.
Its gross and sexual at the same time.
Photo

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Phantom City Creative

Toronto

Justin Erickson and Paige Reynolds make up Phantom City Creative, whose recent commissions include a special edition soundtrack album for the A&E series Bates Motel, and a poster for a Christmas Day screening of Quentin Tarantinos The Hateful Eight.
For Jaws, Phantom City Creative envisioned a beach-facing window framed by a great whites gaping maw.
For Godzilla, Mr. Erickson captured the Japanese terror as a pile of wrecked buildings in one poster; in another, as a pillar of smoke and fire.
He even did a great one where he used the kanji for Godzilla  the Japanese lettering spelling out the title  and actually made it look like Godzilla, Mr. Jones said.
Photo

Kevin Tong

Austin, Tex.
Theres a lot going on in a Kevin Tong poster.
In his wondrous take on The Wizard of Oz, you get simultaneous glimpses of gloomy Kansas and the Emerald City, one in front of the other; in a commission based on Akira Kurosawas Ran, theres an exploding, upside-down castle, an eerie ghost, and samurai and horses falling out of a blood-red sky.
For the Mondo poster for Psycho, Mr. Tong reimagined Hitchcocks iconic shower scene.
He was trying to show that entire scene, trying to mimic that experience of watching that scene in real time, but in a single image, Mr. Jones said.
And he succeeded.
You get a chill.
Photo

With Lucky, opening Friday, Sept. 29, Harry Dean Stanton, who died this month, landed the role of a lifetime as a 90-year-old, desert-town atheist seeking spiritual enlightenment as he confronts the void beyond.
(This directorial debut from John Carroll Lynch was written by Logan Sparks and Drago Sumonja with Mr. Stanton in mind.)
In Also Starring Harry Dean Stanton, Sept. 22-Oct. 1, the Quad Cinema in Manhattan rolls out 21 movies that propelled the laconic character actor and his soulfully furrowed countenance to cult stardom.
The lineup includes B. L. Nortons Cisco Pike, Monte Hellmans Cockfighter, Ridley Scotts Alien and Howard Deutchs Pretty in Pink, as well as Mr. Stantons first real lead, in Alex Coxs Repo Man (1984), and his breakthrough months later as a mostly silent drifter yearning to reconnect with his estranged family in Wim Wenderss Paris, Texas.
Mr. Stanton won the part after he confessed to its writer Sam Shepard, who died in July, in a Santa Fe bar that he longed to play something of some beauty or sensitivity.
(quadcinema.com)
Photo

Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
ART HOUSE THEATER DAY at Film Forum and IFC Center (Sept. 23 and 24).
The Arthouse Convergence, an organization that promotes independent movie theaters, has chosen Sunday as the second annual Art House Theater Day  a day in which cinemas across the United States and Canada will offer special programming in a show of celebration.
The New York City venues are IFC Center and Film Forum.
Film Forum is jumping the gun by one day, but it will bring in Thelma Schoonmaker, Martin Scorseses longtime editor and the widow of the director Michael Powell, to introduce A Matter of Life and Death (1946) on Saturday at 4:45 p.m.
In Mr. Powell and Emeric Pressburgers great fantasy, an R.A.F.
bomber pilot (David Niven) cheats death and then, having fallen in love with an American radio operator, must make the case for a reprieve from the heavens.
On Sunday, IFC Center will screen the animated Revolting Rhymes (based on the Roald Dahl book); Frederick Wisemans landmark documentary Titicut Follies; and a coming Russian film, The Road Movie, culled from dashcam footage.
212-727-8110, filmforum.org

212-924-7771, ifccenter.com

JAMAA FANAKA: L.A. REBEL at BAM Rose Cinemas (Sept. 22-27).
Mr. Fanaka is often cited as part of the L.A.
Rebellion, a group of directors, including Charles Burnett and Billy Woodberry, who attended U.C.L.A.
and shot films in Los Angeless underrepresented neighborhoods.
But Mr. Fanakas work is known for eschewing the poetic realism associated with the movement in favor of genre work.
The scholar Allyson Nadia Field credited his Penitentiary (Friday and Tuesday), a hit in 1979 that Mr. Fanaka made while he attended film school, as the transition moment between blaxploitation and independent black filmmaking.
Leon Isaac Kennedy plays a man imprisoned for being in the wrong place at the wrong time who is given a chance to earn parole in a prison boxing tournament sanctioned by a corrupt lieutenant.
The violence and the social critique are protracted and brutal.
The films two sequels will also screen.
718-636-4100, bam.org

THE POWER OF THE POWERLESS: FIVE BANNED FILMS FROM THE CZECH NEW WAVE at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (through Sept. 24) In 2016, Bill de Blasio declared Sept. 28 Vaclav Havel Day in New York to honor the Czech writer and dissident who became president of Czechoslovakia (and later the Czech Republic).
As a warm-up for the occasion, the Film Society of Lincoln Center is hosting this series of five films banned by the Communist government in Czechoslovakia after the Soviet-led invasion of 1968 squelched the reforms of the Prague Spring.
The titles include The Firemens Ball (Saturday and Sunday), Milos Formans classic sendup of Communist bureaucracy, and Jiri Menzels Larks on a String (Sunday).
212-875-5601, filmlinc.org
This dame, as it turns out, is full of mischief.
Ms. Dench got an Oscar nomination 20 years ago for playing Victoria in Mrs. Brown, the saga of how the queen grew close to a younger man, a servant who doted on her after her beloved Albert died, outraging her household.
Now she is back in Oscar contention for Victoria & Abdul, the saga of how the queen grew close to another younger man, also a servant who doted on her after the other one died, again outraging her household.
The first of the forbidden relationships was with John Brown, a tall, rugged Scotsman nicknamed the Queens stallion, seven years her junior.
As Julia Baird wrote in Victoria the Queen, Victoria was so ensorcelled by the handsome Brown that she asked to be buried with a lock of his hair and a leather case full of his photos in her hand.
His handkerchief was also placed on top of her body, alongside Alberts.
Photo

The second entanglement, with the added complications of race relations in the colonial age, was with Abdul Karim, a 24-year-old Indian Muslim servant who became the 68-year-old monarchs munshi, or teacher, instructing her on Urdu, the Quran and mangoes.
Ms. Dench is far more padded as the older Victoria.
She was 46 inches around her waist, and she wasnt tall, the actress told me.
It was difficult to go to the loo.
Impossible, actually.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Both movies begin with the small, round queen  widowed after having nine children with Albert  dyspeptic and stony-faced, miserable and in mourning with her black veil, only to show her brightening and melting under the sometimes impertinent ministrations of her attractive younger servants.
Even though her name became a synonym for priggishness, I observe, Victoria was a sexy little thing, wasnt she?
We are not amused, Ms. Dench says with faux hauteur, offering the line associated with Victoria.
Comparing the queen to the interior of a tree (Ms. Dench loves trees), she said: She had a huge passion and need inside her.
She had a happy life with Albert and then those years with John Brown, and then Im sure shed certainly given up by then and was just caught up in the drudgery of everything.
And suddenly, that wonderful kind of flowering, where she thought, This is really something worth living for.
She said she understands that heady state well, discovering someone you can laugh with and learn from.
As a person, she said, Im very, very susceptible.
For 60 years, Ive fallen in love with people.
Is there any advantage in women getting involved with subordinates?
She said they could get smitten with the dustman, the postman, the butcher or the prime minister.
It happens to be about the people.
I ask Ms. Dench about her younger man.
This is where I get up and throw the table down and sweep out, she said with a puckish smile, pounding the table.
Actually, shes quite open about her new beau and hes with her in New York.
Ms. Denchs husband of nearly 30 years, the actor Michael Williams, who sent her a red rose every Friday, died of lung cancer in 2001.
She met David Mills, a conservationist, in 2010 when he invited her to help open a new red-squirrel enclosure at the wildlife center he runs near her home in Surrey, England.
He is 74, and she prefers to call him a jolly nice chap rather than a partner.
Despite losing some eyesight to macular degeneration, Ms. Dench still seems elfin, determined to focus on the pluses.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I tell her that I read a recent interview in RadioTimes with Ginny Dougary that she pointed the reporter in the direction of a lovely naughty knicker shop in Covent Garden but told her not to buy everything there because she was going, too.
I like it, Ms. Dench conceded to me about lingerie, but I dont think about it.
She also told Ms. Dougary that older people should never give up on sex, noting that of course, you still feel desire.
I ask about her tattoos.
She had Swarovski crystal body art spelling out 007 on her shoulder for a Bond gala and premieres and had Carpe Diem engraved on the inside of her wrist in St. Martins for her 81st birthday at the urging of her daughter, Finty.
Most memorably, she etched a message on her bum that said, JD loves HW, with a heart with an arrow through it, in gratitude to Harvey Weinstein for making her a movie star in Mrs. Brown, Chocolat, Iris, Shakespeare in Love and other films, after she had been starring in a sitcom with her husband in England.
As a young actress, she said, someone told her she would never make it in movies because you have everything wrong with your face.
Id like to know where that idiot is working now, Mr. Weinstein tells me.
Probably for Breitbart.
Ms. Dench pulled down her pants and flashed the tattoo at Mr. Weinstein at a celebrity lunch she arranged at the Four Seasons in 2002 with Mike Nichols, Nora Ephron, Carly Simon and others, and again at the BAFTA awards when Mr. Weinstein asked Ms. Dench to show his gift to a skeptical Oprah Winfrey at Royal Albert Hall.
I walked in and I saw Harvey, and I said, Hello, Harvey, and I dropped my pants down, Ms. Dench recalls gleefully.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Winfrey, Mr. Weinstein recalls, turned into a 12-year-old squealing girl after Ms. Dench told her, I hear youve been doubting my love for Harvey?
as she unzipped her pants.
Is the Weinstein tattoo real or simply drawn on by her makeup artist when she needs it, given that she once threatened to switch it to Kevin Spacey when he was the head of the Old Vic?
In her typically saucy fashion, Ms. Dench purrs, How can I possibly tell you?
Ask Harvey.
Mr. Weinstein isnt sure, but he does know this: She is one of the worlds great actresses but also great personalities.
She speaks in the Queens English so elegantly and then shes flirting and speaking like British sailors on shore leave.
Johnny Depp and I will go to our graves thinking shes the hottest of them all.
I ask her if theres a trick, when youre the daughter of a doctor and a wardrobe mistress, to playing a monarch as well as she does.
It is more difficult finding out why youre saying the lines, she says.
It doesnt matter whether youre playing a monarch or youre playing a slut down the street.
Same process.
I wonder why America is still so obsessed with monarchies in culture and politics after breaking away from one, noting our current mad king Trump, the princeling Jared, the princess Ivanka and the way the administration projects racial insensitivity as though it were a colonial power.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Dench says she doesnt watch The Crown and only watched a bit of the recent 20th anniversary commemorations of Princess Dianas death.
I just felt very sorry for the boys, she said.
They didnt ask for this, but they do it well.
Is she surprised that the royal family seems fine with Prince Harry dating an American TV actress who is a divorce and biracial?
Photo

Shes divorced?
Ms. Dench says, sounding very surprised and recalling how Princess Margaret had to break it off with Peter Townsend after Elizabeth felt she couldnt let the marriage go forward because Townsend was divorced.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was really sad and somehow shocking to everybody, Ms. Dench recalls.
I tell her that I am loath to write about Victoria because the topic was so upsetting to my mother, who felt she treated the Irish cruelly.
The actress, whose mother was born in Dublin and whose father went to medical school at Trinity College, gasps and asks me why.
She knows a lot about Victoria, but hadnt read about this.
Though the story that the queen sent only five pounds to the Irish during the famine turned out to be a myth, certainly Victoria was not concerned enough about the million who died.
When a young Ottoman sultan, who had an Irish doctor, wanted to donate 10,000 pounds, the Quinnipiac University professor Christine Kinealy said, British diplomats asked him to reduce it to 1,000, so the queen, who was donating 2,000, wouldnt look mingy.
After Ireland became a republic, Ms. Kinealy recalls, the Irish tore down a statue of Victoria in Dublin, at which point a member of the Irish parliament came running out to wave 5 pounds in front of the statue.
The dishy 30-year-old Bollywood star, Ali Fazal, who plays Abdul Karim, has come to dinner with Ms. Dench.
And over his scallops and Smokey Sour mescal cocktail at the Orangery at the Whitby Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, he offers a story of his own about hated colonial statues.
He was shooting the last scene of the movie, when the queen has died and Abdul is back in India, withering away at the feet of a giant statue of Victoria in front of the Taj Mahal.
Production designers had made the statue, since the Victoria statues that were once all over India had been removed.
Suddenly, a bunch of right-wing Indian nationalists charged the set in Agra.
I start hearing the voices, and theyre hooting and talking about Victoria, Send Victoria away, and We dont approve of this, Mr. Fazal recalls.
So Im like, Oh my God, theyre coming for us.
So Im like, Dude, shut this down, get in the tent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I FaceTimed you from there, remember?
he says to Ms. Dench.
The two have just as much chemistry in person as on-screen, when his brown eyes meet her blue ones, and he sometimes takes her hand as he talks.
(When I tell Ms. Dench Im impressed that she FaceTimes, she demurs, Well, somebody else will press the button.
About Twitter, she notes, I dont do it.
I dont do any of it.
I barely have an ironing board.)
Eddie Izzard, who plays the queens oldest son, Bertie (the future King Edward VII), has said the movie is an edgy story because of what we did to the Indian nation back then.
But it is nowhere harsh enough for others.
Amrou Al-Kadhi, writing in The Independent, scathingly observes that Ms. Denchs Victoria is portrayed as what seems to be the most woke monarch in British history and Abdul seems oblivious to the unimaginable atrocities in India during the Victorian era.
The movie, he argues, seeks to absolve our barbaric behavior in colonized countries.
But other reviews are rapturous, especially about Ms. Denchs Victoria Redux.
The vision of herself that Ms. Dench likes best, she has said, is Tracey Ullmans spoof of her as a rebellious national treasure, shoplifting; throwing poop from her pup, Coriolanus, into trees; breaking all the china in a posh shop; kicking over trash cans and signs; writing I hate pigs with a fire extinguisher when she finally gets arrested.
Because Im a national treasure, I could get away with anything, Ms. Ullmans Judi says innocently as she goes on rampages.
But, of course, I dont.
Ms. Dench told RadioTimes: Its so anarchic, I love it.
Its much more like me than anything else.
She detests being called a national treasure.
I hate that, she tells me.
Its not just tedious.
Its some old rock in a cupboard that the glass is shut on and nobody gets it out to dust it.
I loathe it.
I just want to be called a joker.
A jobbing actor.
Somebody who has a laugh.
RELATED: Maureen Dowd plays a truth game with Dame Judi Dench

She did a funny video with the British rapper Lethal Bizzle, a fan of the actress who uses the word Dench to mean amazing.
She donned a fitted cap, answered to the name Judi Dizzle and repeated his rap, Anywhere I go gang rolling, after Lethal Bizzle explained to the quizzical actress that the line meant that anywhere he goes, his friends are coming with him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When asked why she decided to try her hand at rapping, she says with a shrug, Why ever not?
I ask Dench if she will miss being in the next Bond film.
No, she said, adding, I had the most wonderful time.
James Bond is supposed to get married to the woman he loves in the next installment.
That will go swimmingly, I note mordantly.
Who knows?
she says with a laugh.
Im not around to give him any advice or a sharp look.
She understood why Daniel Craig made a joke about slashing his wrists if he had to do another Bond film.
Its a huge commitment, she says.
But he has a ball.
And the thing is, he wants a theater career, too.
And he went and played Iago, didnt he?
Does President Trump remind her of any Shakespearean character?
Oh, no, Shakespeare didnt get round to that, she says, giggling again.
That would be terrible.
An amused Mr. Fazal chimes in, If you put Iago and him, Iago would be my hero.
Ms. Dench, who got her start in 1957 playing Ophelia and later worked her way through Viola, Lady Macbeth and Cleopatra, agrees with her young co-star that Iago is the superior antagonist, pointing out that Mr. Trump should not be compared to Iago at all.
Iago was very sharp, intelligent, she says.
Quite a witty man.
I say that Mr. Trump is our problem, not hers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Oh, she corrects me in her soft voice, its all of our problem.
I think people are sharing it.
She tries to explain to her young co-star about the wind shear of history.
We danced in the streets the night Tony Blair got in, we actually danced in the streets, she says wistfully, shaking her head.
Why wouldnt they like him now?
Fazal asks.
Because of Iraq, Ms. Dench says.
Because of Iraq.
It was not confirmed.
Look what has happened.
Photo

Maureen Dowd: Youre bored with playing queens?
Judi Dench: Yup, a bit.
You fear hordes of schoolchildren.
Confirm.
Im uneasy about gangs of schoolchildren.
When we did Notes on a Scandal, the very first day was in a school and I was surrounded by children and I dont know, it was frightening.
(Laughs)

Your ideal man is Johnny Depp.
One of them.
You love embroidering rude cushions with bawdy language and giving them to your famous friends.
I used to do that a lot, but my eyesight doesnt let me anymore.
I found someone to make the cushions for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cleopatra was your favorite Shakespearean role.
Impossible to say, but I loved doing Cleopatra because it was a challenge.
She did extraordinary things, didnt she?
And she was very, very proud.
While the movie Battle of the Sexes does lead up to the 1973 tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobbie Riggs, it takes some time to explore close moments between its characters off the court.
In this scene, Billie Jean (Emma Stone) first meets Marilyn Barnett (Andrea Riseborough), the hairdresser with whom she eventually develops a relationship.
More meet-intense than meet-cute, it is shot in close-up with a deeply intimate feel.
During an interview at the Toronto International Film Festival, the directors Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris discussed how they made a haircut scene feel more sensual than a love scene.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Would you talk about the scenes origins?
Jonathan Dayton: Although we were really interested in the battle of the sexes match, the story that really made us want to make this film was the relationship Billie Jean had with Marilyn.
It was her first relationship with a woman, and it took place when she was under intense public scrutiny.
So this scene is really the first time they meet and it was a scene that we thought more about than anything other than the match itself.
Photo

Nearly a decade after making his first foray into animation with The Fantastic Mr. Fox, the writer-director Wes Anderson returns to the stop-motion technique and focuses on another type of animal in Isle of Dogs.
The trailer, released Thursday, reveals a futuristic Japanese landscape where dogs have been exiled after a flu epidemic.
The story follows a boy who hijacks a plane and flies to the trash-heap in search of his missing pooch, Spot.
The starry vocal ensemble includes several members of Mr. Andersons unofficial repertory company from The Grand Budapest Hotel and Moonrise Kingdom: Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Tilda Swinton, Frances McDormand, F. Murray Abraham, Harvey Keitel, Bob Balaban and Jeff Goldblum.
Among the newcomers to Wes World are Bryan Cranston, Scarlett Johansson, Greta Gerwig, Liev Schreiber and Yoko Ono.
Set to the West Coast Pop Art Experimental Bands psychedelic tune I Wont Hurt You, the trailer showcases Mr. Andersons customary pristine visual style and deadpan sense of humor.
It also emphasizes action and adventure not normally seen in the auteurs films.
Isle of Dogs, due March 23, may turn out to be his most animated movie, in more ways than one.
Photo

In the potent documentary The Force, theres a moment when Sean Whent, the Oakland chief of police, faces a tough critic: the public.
Its 2015, and hes talking about the police response to calls.
He admits the police are not providing the level of service they should but adds that theyre trying their best.
When a robbery victim says their best isnt good enough, he apologizes.
We need to do a better job, no doubt, and we are trying to do a better job.
By the end of the movie it seems clear that he didnt apologize enough.
Blunt and sobering, The Force is an account of a big-city police department in crisis.
In some ways, it is a bleakly familiar story of a troubled department struggling  and failing and struggling  to right its wrongs.
In 2003, Oakland and its police settled a civil-rights lawsuit and began trying to implement reforms (like improved officer training) and adhere to fundamentals, or what the city attorney called the departments commitment to constitutional policing.
By 2014, the year the documentary opens, the department was into its second decade of federal oversight and these basic goals remained stubbornly elusive.
The Force doesnt offer much on the history of the settlement, though the director, Peter Nicks, does periodically pull back to look at the bigger messy picture.
For the most part, he keeps his focus trained on events as they transpire during the two often turbulent years that he roots around the department.
He rides with officers, follows them onto the streets and straight into assorted testy conflagrations.
He sits in on meetings, some with officers and others with politicians, recording silences and outbursts, moments of frustration and complaint.
Repeatedly, he sets the efforts of individual cops against larger departmental issues.
Video

Serving as his own cinematographer, Mr. Nicks largely takes an observational approach to The Force, the kind that turns the camera into a persistent bystander.
This particular bystander tends to have a fairly short attention span and rarely stays in one place for long, perhaps because Mr. Nicks crams years of material into a 93-minute film.
He also incorporates a bit of found material, including old news reports, as well as a few extremely disturbing lethal encounters taken from police body cams.
Every so often, he identifies a speaker with onscreen text or adds a time stamp; occasionally, he slides in some propulsive electronic beats.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As its title suggests, The Force offers a look at a police department, explicitly as it is embodied by individuals and operates as an institution.
There are times, especially when the other meanings of force emerge  and power, compulsion and violence become nakedly present  that you wish that Mr. Nicks would have stayed longer so he could dig deeper into related issues, including segregation and racism.
He tends to cycle through historical markers fairly fast, as when he shows archival images of the group originally and pointedly called the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, which started in Oakland in 1966, partly in response to police brutality.
If Mr. Nicks intended to advance an overt political agenda or partisan point of view going into his documentary, it isnt all that evident onscreen.
Certainly the documentary doesnt come off as either for or against the police in general terms or in respect to the Oakland force.
And while personalities emerge, Mr. Nicks doesnt elevate heroes or call out villains.
Instead, he makes room for various voices, from community organizers to protesters with Black Lives Matter signs to a sober young officer whose experiences underscore how tough and at times harrowing being a street cop can be.
These voices are fractious, cacophonous and rarely in sync.
Photo

Directed by the cinematographer Christopher Doyle, Hong Kong Trilogy: Preschooled, Preoccupied, Preposterous is drawn from the real voices of contemporary Hong Kong residents, a title card says.
More of a poem or a city symphony than a documentary, it drifts freely, sometimes frustratingly between captured and fictionalized moments.
Structurally, the movie is as loose as some of the features that Mr. Doyle has made as a cinematographer for Wong Kar-wai (2046).
Although Hong Kong Trilogy is divided into three segments, each ostensibly focusing on a different generation, the sections bleed into one another.
Some characters float throughout the film.
The most cohesive section is the middle, between Preschooled, which focuses on the very young, and Preposterous, a non sequitur of a finale that deals, partly, with speed-dating seniors.
Preoccupied, however, centers on young activists and depicts a snapshot of the Umbrella Movement, the 2014 pro-democracy uprising against Beijings political influence.
Mr. Doyle films the tents that sprouted in the city and visits demonstration sites  including an organic farm and a wall inspired by John Lennon  that were also designed, the movie suggests, as spaces for thought.
Despite plentiful onscreen text, the film doesnt clarify details.
(You may wonder about the fate of Vodka, a child the police haul in for littering.)
The free-form assembly is consistent with this movies utopian worldview, but the lack of narrative discipline can be trying.
Photo

Loving Vincent addresses its subject, the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh, with two what-ifs  one marvelous and fantastical, the other empirical and pedestrian.
What if his paintings, with their wild colors and vibrant brush strokes, had been able to move?
And what if the bullet that killed him had been fired by someone else?
A long and arduous labor of love by Dorota Kobiela and Hugh Welchman, the film turns van Goghs work into an unusual kind of biopic.
Using tens of thousands of oil paintings commissioned from scores of artists, the filmmakers transform famous works of modern art into a hypnotic and beguiling cartoon.
The people van Gogh rendered on canvas  the provincial French functionaries, doctors, barmaids and farmers immortalized on museum walls  are brought to uncanny life, with the voices of professional actors, some of them well known.
Photo

They participate in a meandering detective story.
Armand Roulin (Douglas Booth), the layabout son of a village postmaster (Chris ODowd), is instructed by his father to deliver a letter to Vincents brother Theo.
Armand travels to Paris and then to Auvers-sur-Oise, the northern French town where Vincent died, leaving behind contradictory memories among the people he painted in his final years.
They recall a passionate, hard-working artist, but not always the tormented, suicidal genius of legend.
Video

That legend has been sustained by earlier movies, notably Vincente Minnellis rumbustious Lust for Life (with Kirk Douglas as van Gogh) and Robert Altmans more cerebral Vincent & Theo (starring Tim Roth and Paul Rhys as the brothers).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Vincent himself (Robert Gulaczyk) is a more elusive presence in Loving Vincent, since most of its action is posthumous and self-portraits make up a relatively small part of his oeuvre.
There are flashbacks, but the painter is evoked mainly through the dialogue of the other characters, as if he were the Maltese Falcon.
The principal mystery is the stuff of police procedural, as Armand doggedly tries to reconstruct van Goghs final weeks and shed light on the circumstances of his death.
How miserable was he, and why?
What secrets did he harbor?
What enemies had he made?
Photo

A saga of Norways entry into World War II that probably plays more stirringly in the nation where it is set, The Kings Choice dramatizes a celebrated moment in the countrys constitutional monarchy, when King Haakon VII (Jesper Christensen) refused to surrender to the Nazis invasion.
Apart from a great deal of hand-held, wide-screen camera work that might be thought of as Lars von Trier-o-Vision, the movie, directed by Erik Poppe, proceeds in the manner of any number of war epics of the 1960s, sluggishly charting how the ostensibly ceremonial king acquired real negotiating power during a crisis  and had the resolve to lead his country into war.
Video

Checking off dates and locations onscreen, and filling its dialogue with undigested exposition, the movie traces the parallel journeys of the king, who evacuates Oslo with the royal family in the face of the attack, and the German envoy, Curt Brauer (Karl Markovics), who, in the films telling, is authorized by Hitler to bypass the cabinet and negotiate directly with the king.
Brauer is alone among the German characters in his affection for neutral Norway and recognizes that Norwegians arent sympathetic to Germanys desire for iron ore and a strategic coastline, or its violently proffered promise of protection from a hypothetical British invasion.
The Kings Choice maintains a sense of intrigue when it sticks to the kings dealings with the government, but the movie drags when it moves outside of back rooms and deviates from setting up the Bruer-Haakon showdown.
Photo

This is the second movie in 20 years in which Judi Dench plays Queen Victoria.
And this is the second movie in 20 years in which Queen Victoria, played by Judi Dench, has a life-enhancing relationship with a man not of her station.
This movie, Victoria and Abdul, directed by Stephen Frears from a script by Lee Hall, goes 1997s Mrs. Brown one better in the Relevant to Contemporary Concerns department by depicting a friendship between the second-longest-reigning monarch of England and an Indian Muslim.
Based on real events  mostly, reads a text at the movies opening.
Queen Victorias first encounters with Abdul Karim (Ali Fazal), an Indian functionary sent to Britain to present her with a ceremonial coin, are in comedic scenes that lampoon the pomp of her court.
The material is broad, and funny.
The Queen is struck by Abduls bearing and handsomeness, and soon enough is receiving him in private audiences and having him tutor her in Urdu.
He becomes her munshi (teacher) and his presence in her life invigorates her.
Much to the displeasure of her actual court, including her son and heir Bertie (a.k.a.
Edward VII), played with a beard and fiercely indignant eyebrows by Eddie Izzard.
Video

In the shift from comedy to drama the movie goes wobbly.
The narrative of cross-cultural understanding by way of individual affinity is a comforting but ultimately dubious one.
The notion of Queen Victoria as the most progressive figure of the Victorian age is also peculiar.
But this is a handsomely packaged collection of such notions, and will provide genteel entertainment to those of a mind to swallow them.
Photo

Nearly 30 years after chronic fatigue syndrome was given its unfortunate name, its still not understood or even completely accepted by the medical world: No definitive cause has been identified, nor any consensus treatment.
And while it affects an estimated 1 million Americans and 17 million globally, those with the condition are often dismissed as suffering from psychosomatic disorders.
If nothing else, Unrest, by Jennifer Brea, demonstrates just how debilitating chronic fatigue syndrome, also known as myalgic encephalomyelitis, can be.
Ms. Brea, herself a victim, was a well-traveled Ph.D. student at Harvard who fell ill after a high fever in 2011.
Along with exhaustion, she experienced loss of muscle control, the inability to speak coherently, pain, and extreme sensitivity to light and noise.
Specialists at first concluded that she was dehydrated or stressed; one even suggested a delayed reaction to some childhood trauma that she might not recall.
Video

In trying to understand chronic fatigue syndrome, Ms. Brea found other sufferers online and includes some of their stories here  a young Englishwoman bedridden for eight years, a Danish girl kept against her will in a psychiatric hospital for three years.
Other interviews lightly sketch the history of the medical response to the syndrome, and how utterly insufficient it seems to be.
Research money is only a small fraction, the film says, of that for multiple sclerosis, a condition afflicting roughly half as many Americans.
Mainly, though, Unrest is a video diary and, as such, is not always easy to watch.
Ms. Brea bravely spares very little in showing how the disease literally leveled her life  at times leaving her crawling the floor  and strained her marriage.
The film is also not vested in an upbeat ending.
Rather, it powerfully insists on giving a voice to victims whose greatest challenge, apart from their symptoms, is surmounting a world of indifference.
Photo

A gentle, warmhearted immigrant comedy thats rarely more than mildly amusing, The Tiger Hunter follows Sami (Danny Pudi), an aspiring engineer, from his rural Indian village to a job opportunity in Chicago.
The year is 1979, the fashions are horrendous and Sami has but two ambitions: To win the love of his childhood sweetheart and achieve the social status of his father, a celebrated tiger hunter who died when Sami was a child.
Problems arise immediately when an expected engineering position disappears in a downsizing company, leaving Sami with a temporary job as a draftsman and a visa thats set to expire in 30 days.
With a likable cast and a wholesome message about the true meaning of success, The Tiger Hunter might balk at the harsher details of immigrant life, but it has a generosity of spirit that lifts everyone up.
Surrounding Sami with a strong support group of fellow South Asian professionals working menial jobs, the director, Lena Khan (who wrote the script with Sameer Gardezi, and whose own grandfather was a tiger hunter), knows exactly the story she wants to tell.
Video

She is helped immensely by Mr. Pudi, whose quirky performance as a television-obsessed student on the NBC comedy Community was a consistent delight.
It also gave him an ease with ensemble work that allows him to blend with other actors instead of sucking attention.
The result is an endearingly old-fashioned comedy, not just in its style and the sweetness of its plot, but also in its bright-eyed optimism about immigrant opportunities.
These days, it can be hard to remember that for those who dreamed large, America once seemed like a soft place to fall.
Photo

Enigmatic to an extreme, the documentary Bobbi Jene may interest viewers who are well versed in contemporary dance.
All others are on their own.
Bobbi Jene Smith had performed with the Batsheva Dance Company in Israel for a decade before deciding to return home to the United States.
Early on we watch her informing Ohad Naharin, the troupes artistic director, of her plan.
Other scenes monitor her resulting long-distance relationship with Or Schraiber, her Israeli boyfriend, whod stayed behind.
Though were told Ms. Smith was a star, her years with the company arent recapped, and theres scant information on her intriguing back story  she grew up in Iowa before making her way to Juilliard, only to leave to follow Mr. Naharin; for a time they were lovers.
No colleagues or critics are interviewed to give insights or memories or opinions.
Ms. Smith reveals little about her theories or hopes or ideas.
Video

Those exclusions are apparently deliberate.
The films director, Elvira Lind, chooses to slowly observe Ms. Smith rather than rush to understand or challenge her.
That formless approach is risky, and for viewers unfamiliar with Mr. Naharins technique, gaga (which is the subject of another recent documentary), its bound to lead to confusion.
Late in Bobbi Jene, Ms. Smith is back in Israel, performing a piece in the nude that requires her to bring herself to orgasm in front of an audience.
What could seem pornographic is instead an entrancing meditation on shame and desire.
Yet here again, no effort is made by Ms. Lind to engage the unacquainted.
Afterward, Ms. Smith laments that in contemporary dance, a performer can create a great work but few people will see it.
Documentaries like this wont gain the art form many new followers.
Photo

Stop us if youve heard this one before: A few years after winning an Academy Award for best supporting actress, a rising star makes the leap to above-the-title action heroine as Lara Croft from the video game Tomb Raider.
In 2001, it was Angelina Jolie (Girl, Interrupted), and now its Alicia Vikander (The Danish Girl).
The first trailer for the reboot, set for release next year, doesnt make the new film look all that different from the original: There are a lot of shots of Lara in a tank top, running, jumping and packing heat.
Its also reminiscent of last years box-office disappointment, Assassins Creed, starring Ms. Vikanders real-life love interest, Michael Fassbender.
That was also based on a video game and featured an overqualified supporting cast.
In this case, its Dominic West (as Laras long-lost father, a role previously played by Ms. Jolies real dad, Jon Voight), Walton Goggins and Kristin Scott Thomas.
Sixteen years ago, a female-fronted action movie still qualified as a novelty, but by the time Ms. Jolie did the sequel, Lara Croft Tomb Raider: The Cradle of Life in 2003, the thrill was gone.
It remains to be seen if Ms. Vikander will be able to kick off a franchise, but the trailers tagline certainly sounds hopeful: Her Legend Begins.
Photo

The new trailer for Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle, which arrived Wednesday, suggests its less of a sequel to the Robin Williams 1995 family favorite than it is to Central Intelligence, the 2016 comedy with Dwayne Johnson and Kevin Hart.
Theyre part of the ensemble in the new film, but their easy slapstick chemistry ultimately takes center stage in the trailer, pushing aside even their co-star, the veteran scenery chewer Jack Black.
In the original Jumanji, an eerie board game brings elephants and rhinos to suburbia.
But the new film takes the players (actually, their adult avatars) to the wilderness.
The Hawaiian locations are put to good use in the preview, which ends with an offer to win a vacation to the Aloha State.
The trailer gets bonus points for using Guns N Roses original take of Welcome to the Jungle rather than getting some younger band to rerecord it.
Everything else about the new version seems supercharged.
The quaint board game has been transformed into a video game, and the souped-up CGI makes the 1995 version look downright primitive.
The question is whether the new movie will be as wildly popular without its predecessors chief special effect: Williams.
Moviegoers will find out when Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle hits theaters on Dec. 20.
On stage at the Slipper Room this month, Lilly Hayes, the performer known as Miranda Raven, kicked off her black moon boots before zipping out of her astronaut costume to reveal a pair of jeans, white button-down shirt and denim jacket  the signature look of River Song, a character from Doctor Who.
The theater that Thursday night was filled with fans of the BBC series  Whovians, as they call themselves  hooting and applauding at a noise level befitting a boxing match, as Ms. Hayes unabashedly jumped, swiveled, rolled on the floor and shimmied her way around the stage in time with Pinks Trouble.
Photo

By the end of the song, her jeans, shirt, jacket and space gear strewed the floor.
Ms. Hayes was naked, holding up two black signs that said Spoilers  River Songs catchphrase  over her breasts and pubic area.
Welcome to nerdlesque, the geeky, pop-culture offshoot of burlesque that grew out of the art forms 1990s renaissance.
Rather than luring crowds through feminine beauty and glamour, nerdlesque, which has been compared to fan fiction, lets them revel in their nerdoms among like-minded people.
It has gained such a following in New York City that it got its own festival in 2014.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hotsy Totsy Burlesque, which hosted the tribute to Doctor Who, has a lengthy catalog of shows that riff on movies, books and recent TV hits like Mad Men and American Horror Story, as well as classics like The Muppets and Golden Girls.
Its Harry Potter tributes  this years was Harry Potter and the Cursed Pastie: Parts Left and Right  sell out, and every December the group skewers The Star Wars Holiday Special, the ill-fated 1978 TV movie George Lucas would surely like to forget.
LaMotta was able to absorb a flurry of punches only to unload a more brutal barrage on an opponent.
He would, as he wrote in his memoir, charge out of the corner, punch, punch, punch, never give up, take all the punishment the other guy could hand out but stay in there, slug and slug and slug.
Photo

Ray Arcel, one of boxings most renowned trainers, said of LaMotta, When he was in the ring, it was like he was in a cage fighting for his life.
Best remembered for his six bouts with Sugar Ray Robinson, LaMotta won 83 fights (30 by knockouts) and lost 19 (including a fix to which he belatedly confessed, telling a congressional panel that he had been promised that if he lost that fight he would get a title shot).
He also fought four draws.
He captured the middleweight championship in June 1949, stopping the titleholder, Marcel Cerdan, at Briggs Stadium in Detroit, and was knocked down only once in his 106 fights.
Mr. Scorsese made his film long after LaMotta had squandered his money  he said he made $1 million in the ring  and had gone through a series of stormy marriages, been sent to prison once more and ballooned into obesity.
I would think that Jake thinks its a movie about himself, Mr. Scorsese told The New York Times shortly after Raging Bull was released.
But those who think its a boxing picture would be out of their minds.
Its brutal, sure, but its a brutality that could take place not only in the boxing ring but in the bedroom or in an office.
Jake is an elemental man.
LaMotta boxed more than a thousand rounds with Mr. De Niro, tutoring him for a role that brought him the Oscar for best actor.
Cathy Moriarty, in her professional acting debut, played LaMottas second wife, Vikki, a beautiful blonde who endured a chaotic marriage, and was nominated for a supporting-actress Oscar.
LaMotta had mixed feelings about the film.
I kind of look bad in it, he told The Times.
Then I realized it was true.
Thats the way it was.
I was a no-good bastard.
Its not the way I am now, but the way I was then.
Photo

Giacobbe LaMotta was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on July 10, 1922, one of five children.
He recalled that his father, a Sicilian immigrant who peddled fruits and vegetables, frequently beat his wife, a daughter of Italian immigrants, and their children.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The family moved to Philadelphia and then to the Bronx, where they lived in a rat-infested tenement.
LaMotta attacked bullying schoolmates with an ice pick, and he beat a neighborhood bookie into unconsciousness with a lead pipe while robbing him.
He emerged as a leading middleweight in the early 1940s, having been rejected from World War II military service because a childhood mastoid operation had affected his hearing.
In February 1943, he dealt Robinson the first loss of his career in Robinsons 41st fight, winning a 10-round decision after knocking him through the ropes.
Robinson won their other five fights, but LaMotta also defeated prominent fighters like Fritzie Zivic, Tony Janiro and Bob Satterfield.
Al Silvani, a trainer for LaMotta, felt he was most dangerous when seemingly beaten.
As Silvani recalled in Corner Men, by Ronald K. Fried (1993), LaMotta would lay against the ropes playing possum and all at once  and this no exaggeration  hed throw seven, eight, nine, ten left hooks at you.
LaMotta had been favored to defeat Billy Fox of Philadelphia in a light-heavyweight bout in November 1947, but the odds swung 3-1 in Foxs favor shortly before the fight, evidently because of an infusion of organized crime money from Philadelphia.
LaMotta was pummeled by Fox, and the bout was stopped in the fourth round.
Photo

The New York State Athletic Commission looked into suspicions that LaMotta had deliberately lost the fight, but he claimed he had been impaired by a ruptured spleen that he incurred in training.
He got away with a $1,000 fine and a seven-month suspension for hiding an injury.
But in 1960, when the Senate Antitrust and Monopoly subcommittee held hearings on organized crimes influence in boxing, LaMotta admitted that he had agreed to lose the Fox fight in return for gaining a long-sought shot at the middleweight crown.
In a deposition, he said that one of the men who arranged the fix was Blinky Palermo, Foxs manager and the reputed numbers kingpin of Philadelphia.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

LaMotta had received his opportunity 17 months after the Fox bout, and he stopped Cerdan on a 10th-round technical knockout to become middleweight champion.
Cerdan, a Frenchman, was en route to the United States for a return fight when he was killed in a plane crash.
LaMotta successfully defended his title twice, then lost it to Robinson when their bout, at Chicago Stadium on Feb. 14, 1951, was stopped in the 13th round.
LaMotta was a bloody mess but had never hit the canvas.
The fight became known as the second Valentines Day Massacre, an allusion to the storied 1929 gangland killings in Chicago.
LaMottas career slid downhill after he lost the title, and on Dec. 31, 1952, following a six-month layoff, he was knocked down for the only time in his career, losing to Danny Nardico in a light-heavyweight fight.
He retired, then came back in 1954 for a few bouts before quitting for good.
He was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 1990.
LaMottas perpetual rage led him to beat his first wife, Ida.
He married again, in 1946  his new wife, Vikki, was a teenager  but that marriage, too, descended into turmoil amid LaMottas drinking and womanizing.
She filed for divorce in 1956.
He was married six times.
Photo

In 1957, while operating a nightclub and bar in Miami Beach, LaMotta was convicted of encouraging a minor to be a prostitute.
He spent six months in jail and worked on a road gang.
Encouraged to try show business by Rocky Graziano, also a former middleweight champion, who had turned to acting and had been his friend since their time together in reform school, LaMotta later worked as a stand-up comic and an actor.
He appeared as a bartender in the Paul Newman film The Hustler (1961) and played the mobster Big Jule in a 1965 production of the musical Guys and Dolls at the City Center in Manhattan.
LaMotta appeared with Ms. Baker in a revue-style Off Broadway production, The Lady and the Champ, which ran for two weeks in 2012.
A second movie about his life, LaMotta: The Bronx Bull, was released in 2015, with William Forsythe portraying LaMotta.
It had no connection to the film Raging Bull.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In addition to Ms. Baker, LaMotta is survived by his daughters, Jacklyn ONeill, Christie LaMotta, Elisa LaMotta and Mia Day; Ms. Bakers daughters, Meggen Connolley and Natalia Baker; his brothers, Joe and Al; his sisters, Maria Hawfield and Anne Ramaglia; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
His sons, Jack and Joseph, died seven months apart in 1998, Jack from cancer and Joseph in a plane crash.
LaMottas toughness was in full display in his battles with Sugar Ray Robinson, whom many consider the finest pound-for-pound boxer in history.
Robinson had seemingly exhausted LaMotta, known then as the Bronx Bull, in their second bout, only to learn otherwise.
I had him along the ropes, Robinson remembered in his autobiography, Sugar Ray (1969), written with Dave Anderson, a sports columnist for The Times.
He had his head down and I was really measuring him.
His head popped up and he let go a left hook that almost tore through my stomach.
It hurt so much, I had tears in my eyes, like a little kid.
I got the decision, but I learned that Jake LaMotta was some animal.
Photo

For years now, the worlds Terminator fans have been comfortable in the knowledge that we would never again be excited by the prospect of seeing another film in the franchise: The last one, Terminator Genisys, was even more muddled than its title.
But in an announcement this week, James Cameron, the series creator, said that another Terminator would soon be rolling off the production line.
And he gave us two good reasons to hope that civilization wont be crushed by robots before its release.
One is that Mr. Cameron himself will be overseeing the production, having walked away from the series after writing and directing The Terminator in 1984 and Terminator 2: Judgment Day in 1991.
The second reason is that Linda Hamilton will be back as Sarah Connor, the heroine of the first two films  never mind that she was killed off before the events of Terminator 3.
You could call Ms. Hamiltons appearance a cynical, last-ditch attempt to save a franchise that has worsened with every sequel.
But in fact the news is yet another example of Mr. Camerons remarkable habit of staying ahead of the competition, whether he is pioneering C.G.I.
for Terminator 2 or advancing digital 3D with Avatar.
Ms. Hamilton, after all, is now 60 years old  and who else is putting 60-year-old action heroines in their blockbusters?
Its going to make a huge statement to have that seasoned warrior that shes become return, Mr. Cameron said at an event announcing the casting, according to the Hollywood Reporter.
There are 50-year-old, 60-year-old guys out there killing bad guys, but there isnt an example of that for women.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hes right.
Liam Neeson, Sylvester Stallone, Harrison Ford and a certain Arnold Schwarzenegger are still flexing their biceps and their trigger fingers, but the closest I can think of to a female equivalent is Helen Mirren in Red.
Clarice Starling has been silent for years.
Tomb Raider is being relaunched with Alicia Vikander, 28, stepping into the desert boots of the 42-year-old Angelina Jolie.
Photo

Unlike their spring 2018 fashion collection, Kate and Laura Mulleavys first foray into moviemaking, Woodshock, is depressingly dull and terminally inarticulate.
Oh, its pretty enough, in the superficially embellished style of a perfume ad or fashion video  the gifted Finnish cinematographer Peter Flinckenberg virtually empties his bag of tricks.
But its more lacking in substance than a yard of silk chiffon.
The title refers to the psychological panic engendered by being lost in a forest (here played by the giant redwoods in Humboldt County, California), but Theresa (Kirsten Dunst) isnt physically disoriented, just mentally unmoored.
Having helped her sick mother die using a spiked spliff, Theresa, who works in a medical-marijuana dispensary, descends into a detached reverie of hallucinatory grief.
Neither her boyfriend (Joe Cole, underemployed to the point of effacement) nor her boss (a miscast Pilou Asbaek) can reach her.
What follows is less a consideration of the fallout from an act of euthanasia than a succession of disjointed, dreamlike scenes of Theresa listlessly caressing tree trunks and her mothers shabby-chic furnishings.
More than one person will die as she continues to mope and medicate, attired in a succession of lace-trimmed chemises.
Yet no substantive conversation or hint of greater meaning pierces this gauzy void, which the Mulleavy sisters, whose fashion label is Rodarte, decorate by slapping butterflies or flowers on virtually every available surface.
Filmmaking might be a natural sidestep for fashion designers  as Tom Ford has twice proven, though he had the foresight to use strong novels as building blocks  but Woodshock is a painterly bore.
At their most basic level, movies are supposed to actually move; this one is as becalmed as its perpetually high heroine.
Photo

Documentarians have long struggled with how to depict the aftermaths of atrocities.
Claude Lanzmanns Shoah spreads its interviews out over more than nine hours, implicitly acknowledging the limitations of making a Holocaust film even as it serves as a record of survivors memories.
Joshua Oppenheimers The Act of Killing goes for the throat: The director shows the former members of Indonesian death squads re-enacting their crimes.
In considering the case of Hissne Habr (also known as Hissein), who as president of Chad from 1982 to 1990 led a murderous, dictatorial government, Hissein Habr, a Chadian Tragedy doesnt go to any extremes.
Its more of a document than a documentary; calling it cinema seems like an error of categorization.
Although the director, Mahamat-Saleh Haroun (A Screaming Man), who was raised in Chad but left during Mr. Habrs rule and now lives in France, provides a voice-over, his authorial presence is minimal.
The bulk of the film consists of survivors of Mr. Habrs reign recounting their arrests and what happened to them afterward.
The interviews can be dry and formal (names, ages and dates of arrest).
Many victims are still suffering the physical tolls of torture.
Video

Mr. Habr was arrested in 2013 in Senegal, where he was living in exile, and the movie was first shown at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2016, shortly before Mr. Habr was convicted of war crimes.
That foreknowledge provides some context for the interviews, most of which are conducted by Clment Abafouta, the leader of a group that pressed for Mr. Habrs prosecution.
The tensest scene involves an effort by Mr. Abafouta to broker a reconciliation.
Mr. Abafouta sits with a man who was arrested by Mr. Habrs political police force, and with the policeman the former prisoner says arrested and tortured him.
Then Mr. Abafouta asks the victim if its possible to offer forgiveness.
The former Habr police force member attempts to play down his actions (I was a subordinate, he says), and likens himself to a dog who was trained to attack.
In response, the victim urges him to be a man  not a dog  at all times.
Photo

The preamble of the new black comedy Thirst Street finds Gina, an American flight attendant, in a period of stability, happily partnered with her doting boyfriend, Paul (Damien Bonnard), as she jetsets from Berlin to Chicago to Rome.
The director, Nathan Silver, frames Gina (Lindsay Burdge) in the lime, magenta and lapis light of Ginas Technicolor fantasies, even as a wry voice-over by the narrator, Anjelica Huston, observes the beloved Paul transitioning from honeymoon period to suicidal depression, without Ginas notice.
Video

Following this drolly mordant prologue, Thirst Street becomes the story of Ginas fanatical rebound from her lovers suicide.
We watch as Gina fixates with rose-colored glasses on a new partner, this time a skeezy Parisian bartender, Jrme (also played by Mr. Bonnard), whose acquiescence to a one-night stand in no way prepares him for the onslaught of Ginas obsession.
But even as Ginas behavior dips past manic pixie dream girl to merely manic, the director never deviates from the detached tone of his prologue.
Though both Ms. Burdge and Mr. Bonnard offer vulnerably world-weary performances, Mr. Silver has made a movie about obsession that never delves deeper than infatuation.
Thematically shallow but stylistically rich, Thirst Street is best enjoyed with a hint of its heroines willfully superficial vision.
For an audience with an eye for their own pleasure, Thirst Street offers a parade of beautiful light, beautiful (womens) bodies, and beautiful surfaces  no need to worry about whats inside.
Moana  the story of a Polynesian princess, Moana, on an adventure with her chicken, Heihei, and the demigod Maui  has already netted Disney awards, critical acclaim and box office revenue of $643 million worldwide.
Photo

It also provoked debate about whether the story was culturally sensitive to the people, including Maori, whose mythologies are included in the story.
The filmmakers have said that they did extensive research throughout the Pacific to ensure the storys authenticity.
Taika Waititi, a New Zealand writer and director who worked on the original English-language version of Moana, also approached Disney early on about translating the film, and his sister, Tweedie Waititi, went on to produce the translated version.
The film was screened free at 30 theaters around New Zealand at the end of the annual Maori language week.
It did not have English subtitles, but screenings were fully booked within 30 minutes, leading to plans in at least one town for additional showings.
Many of those attending in Manukau, in southern Auckland, said they had never seen a film at the theater entirely in their language before.
Several of the families there came from nearby Manurewa, a district usually in the news for unemployment, homelessness and poverty.
Parents entering the theater said they relished the chance for their children to see themselves and their language reflected on the big screen, in a different kind of story that they hoped would instill pride in being Maori.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Morning Briefing What you need to know to start your day in Australia, delivered to your inbox.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
And it seemed to work.
Jay-Dean Knox-Cassidy and Phoenix-Nevaeh Durham-Gray, both 10 (and cousins), were among the first to arrive.
They had learned the language at kohanga reo, immersion preschools, and still spoke it sometimes at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In line, they spotted a few of their preschool teachers, including Lillian Shelford, who said that many of the children there were former students.
She said that when she started working at the preschool in 1994, she did not speak the language herself and was embarrassed and shy about trying.
Like many Maori of the baby boomer generation, she had been discouraged from speaking it when she was younger.
It is a common story in New Zealand.
Mr. Piripi, 60, the former head of New Zealands Maori Language Commission, said the loss of native language and culture began in earnest after the British missionary Samuel Marsden began preaching Christianity in New Zealand in 1814.
In 1840, Maori leaders and representatives of the British crown signed the Treaty of Waitangi, the founding document of New Zealand.
It was intended to bring the two parties together in New Zealand, but breaches of it and inconsistencies in translation have caused conflict.
Maori and Pacific Island people in New Zealand now face worse social, economic and health outcomes than Pakeha, or New Zealanders of European descent.
Photo

Mr. Piripi said he was proud of the efforts to increase the status of the native language and culture but worried they were too little, too late.
He said many parents had lost confidence in immersion schooling, worrying that their children would miss out on the benefits of mainstream education, even though statistics tell us that children do better in native-language classrooms.
He argued for a more methodical and strategic approach.
Language is the expression of a culture and a race of people, he said.
To retain your language is an emblem of survival through history.
If youve still got your language now, you have the key to your culture.
Most of the efforts to revitalize the language that have worked so far, he added, have been initiated by protest or court action.
But Mr. Piripi said the film Moana reo Mori had given him hope there was another way: making the language cool, relevant and useful to young Maori.
Theres no other film in the Maori language that would attract whanau and kids like that, he said, using the word for families.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The entire process, including translation, recording the voices and mixing the sound, happened over three months.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Australia Letter Newsletter Damien Cave, our new Australia bureau chief, shares insights on global news, local recommendations and feedback from readers in this weekly newsletter.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Katarina Edmonds, a senior lecturer in Maori education at the University of Auckland, and one of three people who translated the film, said the team worked not only to find the exact equivalents of words in the Disney script, but also to remain true to the Maori language and tikanga, or cultural values.
Some moments of the film posed a challenge; Moana raging at the ocean, for example, contravened a Maori cultural rule to never curse or turn ones back on the sea, so they turned it into a more humorous moment using careful wordplay.
At the same time, Ms. Edmonds said, the translation gave the film a uniquely Maori flavor of humor, while staying true to the spirit of the original script.
Rachel House, a New Zealand actor who voiced the character Gramma Tala in both the English and Maori versions of the film  and who was also the performance director of the Maori production  said she had been blown away by the response to the film, and the 30 theaters that screened it free.
Ive been on a very slow journey with the language for years, and now I feel like I can sit back and really enjoy the film, and experience the learning tool that it represents, she said.
In Manukau, most families left the theater beaming.
Many said they were eager to buy a DVD of the film, which is expected sometime in the next few months.
Desiree Tipene, 30, said that having grown up with immersion schooling, she was determined to give her children a similar experience  for a sense of identity and spiritual connection.
She described Moana as a funny and beautiful way for her four children to connect with their culture.
I just enjoy our language being spoken, she said.
Photo

AMSTERDAM  As a boy soprano in the youth opera company that his parents ran in their small town, the Dutch composer Michel van der Aa once accompanied his father to the clockmaker who was painting a set for them.
What he saw, he recalled recently, was revelatory.
I will never forget, Mr. van der Aa said, that he had this fan onto which he had added pieces of crepe paper and put red light under it.
And he turned on the light and, suddenly, there was a fire.
I realized that with these very simple means, you can do something incredibly poetic.
If his inspiration to become a theater artist arose from this encounter with stagecraft simplicity, Mr. van der Aa, 47, has made his career embracing the very opposite.
Though he has written chamber and orchestral pieces, he has become best known in opera.
And to this already multifaceted art form, he has added high-tech experiments in streaming video and 3-D film and retro elements like reel-to-reel tape recordings, resulting in sequences like duets that require an onstage singer to harmonize with another artist, who is inside a recorded movie.
Mr. van der Aas latest opera, Blank Out, which stars the soprano Miah Persson (live onstage) and the baritone Roderick Williams (in a simultaneously projected 3-D film, which the audience watches through glasses), will be at the Park Avenue Armory from Thursday to Sept. 27, after critically successful runs here in Amsterdam and in Rome; Beijing; Helsinki; Hannover, Germany; and Lucerne, Switzerland.
The opera is loosely based on the life and work of the South African poet Ingrid Jonker (1933-65).
Because she wrote in Afrikaans, which is similar to Dutch, translations of her work were made available in the Netherlands before they reached other parts of the world, and Mr. van der Aa read them as a young man.
The operas narrative includes inspiration from Mr. van der Aas own memories, but Jonkers poems recur throughout, both in their entirety and as fragments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the enigmatic work, which leaves some of its narrative threads undone at the end, Ms. Persson plays a mother remembering the tragic drowning of her son, while Mr. Williams, in the film, is a son remembering the drowning of his mother.
Replayed loops of Ms. Perssons voice join her live sounds; she often sings together with Mr. Williams, though they are divided by time, space and medium.
Its a dark tale told in Mr. van der Aas characteristic style, a genre-bending amalgam of pop, electronica and ambient elements, like the scratching sound of cassette tapes.
A whole generation of listeners have Spotify playlists that move from Bach to Beyonc, from Radiohead to Ligeti, he said.
I think these genre lines dont exist anymore for many young listeners and also not for me, and it feels very artificial to keep them in my work.
The same is true with visual culture: Were surrounded by technology, and its in the DNA of our time, so it would be very strange to not use it in my work.
Photo

Blank Out is Mr. van der Aas second foray into combining 3-D elements with opera, after a 2013 collaboration with the British novelist David Mitchell, Sunken Garden, which some critics found more satisfying technically than musically.
(He has continued to tweak the work and will present what he calls the 2.0 version in March at the Dallas Opera.)
The critic Andrew Clemens wrote in The Guardian that Blank Out was, by comparison, far more understated and effective, and listed it as one of his top classical music events of last year.
The themes he uses are timeless, inspired by literature, associative and multilayered, said Pierre Audi, the impresario who originally commissioned the new work for Dutch National Opera and is now the Park Avenue Armorys artistic director.
He wasnt really following the path of a conventional composer, and the risks he was taking from early on were worth supporting.
Nine droogs (and one alternate droog) gathered an hour and a half before showtime at New World Stages on a recent Friday night.
To a chorus of syncopated grunts, oohs and aahs, they began to warm up.
Most actors preparing to go onstage exercise their voices, do some stretching or Zen out with peace and quiet.
The unusual high-intensity warm-up for A Clockwork Orange, however, could rev up Floyd Mayweather for his next pay-per-view.
Photo

Jonno Davies, the shows 25-year-old lead, urged his castmates on through jumping jacks, squat thrusts, burpees, dips, push-ups, biceps work and other exercises, with no rest in between.
Then came yoga poses to cool down, as the Foo Fighters blared in the background.
Just two hours later, Mr. Davies, as the ultraviolent teenager Alex, would be leading the gang in onstage rapes and beatings in the theatrical adaptation of Anthony Burgesss classic 1962 novel, which opens in New York on Monday.
The 90-minute show, directed by Alexandra Spencer-Jones, made its debut in 2012 at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, with later runs in Australia, Norway, Singapore and London.
Photo

Now Alex, who unmercifully pummels his way through young adulthood for sport before eventually finding that his angry impulses have been conditioned out of him, and his fellow denizens of the Korova Milkbar have arrived Off Broadway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most taxing part of being in the all-male cast may be the training.
But the results?
Sculpted physiques straight out of Mens Health magazine.
In the program, the creators write of their own alarm at living in a species-devastating age that some call the Sixth Extinction, as Elizabeth Kolbert does in her book of the same name.
They intend A Period of Animate Existence  whose clinical-sounding title is a wordier way of saying life  to be a contemplation of the dangers facing us, and of whatever future we might have.
Photo

Thats unlikely to be the takeaway for spectators, though the first section seems promising.
Structured like a symphony, in five movements with pauses in between, the show begins with a column of light projected from the stage, panning very slowly across the darkened house.
(The lighting design is by Tyler Micoleau.)
Underneath, an orchestra plays rumbling music that could be coming from the bowels of the earth, from the time of creation.
In the second movement, a cellist (Daniel de Jess) plays and a chorus crisscrosses the stage around him, singing.
A swath of humanity, these people are dressed in street clothes, and their simple choreography (by Beth Gill) is strikingly beautiful.
When they lie side by side on the floor, moving as one, the performance reaches its sole moment of transcendence.
A food cart is the star of movement three, talking to us through its LED sign.
Let us learn and fast what every god learns the hard way, it says.
The right to immortality is no privilege.
True enough, but the shows curiosity about machines and their possible ability to think feels awkward, even a little feigned, alongside its more organic interest in children and elders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are lots of both in this production, notably in the overlong movement four, which unfortunately is where the show goes awry.
The style of each section is different, and this one is essentially a pageant with a brittle narrative strung through it, with neither the charm of the homemade nor the polish of the professional.
The one bright spot is the bandstand, its backdrop a red circle edged in flames spiked with giant matchsticks.
But at least the environmental theme there is clear, whereas movement five is mostly just a head-scratcher unless youre in possession of a news release that explains the pairs of wrestlers struggling on floor mats as a visualization of Henri Bergsons elan vital, the vital impulse that gives life its uniqueness (and, in the philosophers optimistic view, explained the evolution of higher forms).
Arrayed behind them, in majestic costumes by Loren Shaw that fuse the papal with the insectoid (they are meant to suggest trilobites, long extinct), is a choir called the Crossing, softly chanting.
Such elements of beauty and humor glimmer occasionally throughout A Period of Animate Existence.
More often, it feels like a show whose ambitions are so weighty that its true form is still buried under the research somewhere.
Its foiled, too, by the desire to change the creative language with each movement.
These disparate pieces are intended to add up to something whole.
At this stage of the experiment, they dont.
And for any theatergoer who participates in this movable junk-food buffet, KPOP is likely to come across as entertaining and enervating, in fairly equal measures.
Video

Conceived by the Woodshed Collective and the playwright Jason Kim, with direction by Teddy Bergman and songs by Helen Park and Max Vernon, KPOP offers a guided, room-by-room tour of a Korean hit factory that is hoping, finally, to capture a market that has long eluded it: the United States.
To achieve this goal, JTM Entertainment  which is run by a Mr.
Moon (James Saito) and his wife, Ruby (Vanessa Kai)  has enlisted the services of the aforementioned Jerry Kim, a Korean-American who heads the explicitly named Crossover agency.
Jerry claims that his company has been responsible for the stateside success of the likes of Shakira, Zara, Ikea, Hugh Jackman and Le Pain Quotidien.
We, the audience, are asked to be his focus group, gathered to offer suggestions on how to make JTMs flavor of pop stars more palatable to Americans.
Theatergoers are divided into different teams (according to the color of wrist bands issued before the show begins) and ushered through a series of meticulously imagined rehearsal spaces, recording studios, cosmetic analysis rooms and a theater-cum-bar, where we are allowed to observe the finished product.
That would be a newly reorganized boy band (called F8, and pronounced fate) and a girl band (Special K).
There is also the labels reigning solo artist, MwE (a divinely petulant Ashley Park, who wears Tricia Barsamians haute girl-goddess costumes as if they were sweatsuits).
Mr. Kim clearly had a swell time devising names.
Photo

Among those on hand to knead the would-be stars into shape are a vocal coach (Amanda Morton), a plastic surgeon (David Shih) and an American choreographer (Ebony Williams).
Though there are references throughout to the unforgiving Korean ethic of perfectionism, what the young performers endure in the name of their craft doesnt seem all that different from what we are told Simon Cowells protgs are put through.
Of course, the frictions within prefab groups like the Spice Girls and One Direction probably didnt include the mini-culture wars that threaten to tear F8 asunder.
The groups flashiest new recruit, Epic (a spot-on Jason Tam, as smooth as Jell-O pudding), is too Anglophone for the tastes of his bandmates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The resulting confrontations lead to Epics main antagonist, Oracle (Jinwoo Jung), drawing a line down the middle of a rehearsal room and asking the audience to choose a side.
Uh-oh!
I believe we have a combustible political metaphor on our hands here, which  given the current international situation  is a little queasy-making, as are Jerrys jokey references to launching rockets into the American market.
Photo

In a less topical vein, we have the agonies of the lovely MwE, who at 26 is approaching her sell-by date and who receives us in a suspended cocoon chair in her special downtime room.
(Gabriel Hainer Evansohns sets are marvels of manicured kitsch.)
As MwE shifts jerkily between autopilot charm and rebellion against Ruby, her manager (and creator), you may feel youve stumbled into an enjoyably hokey remake of Valley of the Dolls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Like the young stars it portrays, KPOP sometimes works too hard to put itself over.
It is least interesting at its most didactic.
And it suffers from its own conflicted intentions.
The show is best when parody blurs into the already surreal dimensions of whats being parodied.
Thats true of the eye-popping visuals throughout (right down to the ads on the walls).
And Ms.
Parks and Mr. Vernons pastiche fusion musical numbers, choreographed with slashing wit by Jennifer Weber, are as synthetically sweet and perversely addictive as the real thing.
(Think of them as ear Skittles.)
Many of the drinking-age audience members (there is a real bar, dont forget) with whom I saw KPOP reacted to the climactic performance of these numbers as if they were giddy teenagers at a bona fide concert.
But what about all those hard truths we learned along the way, about the unsavory ingredients that go into such crowd-courting performances?
By that time, all disparate messages appeared to have melded into one high-volume command.
Which would be, if I may borrow an oft-recycled mainstream song title (and thats appropriate, I think): Shut up and dance.
Photo

The drama surrounding Berlins iconic Volksbhne theater took another surprising turn on Friday afternoon when a group of left-wing activists moved into the building and proclaimed they were occupying the institution with the aim of turning it into a collectively run theater.
The Volksbhne had become a flash point for a tense debate about the citys future, fueled by concerns about gentrification and globalization, ever since the announcement two years ago that the theaters longtime director, Frank Castorf, was to be ousted and replaced with Chris Dercon, the former director of the Tate Modern in London.
According to Sarah Waterfeld, a spokeswoman for the occupying group, the takeover had been planned for several months and was carried out with the approval of a large portion of the Volksbhnes staff.
In an online statement, the collective described their goal as the reclamation of public space in a decade of privatization and commercialization and invited artists working with the new director to collaborate with them.
Mr. Dercon, it stated, was welcome to continue his work at a stage his team had already built at the citys disused Tempelhof airport.
Established in 1890 as a theater for the working class, the Volksbhne had become internationally renowned under Mr. Castorf for its ambitious, politically inflected productions, and Mr. Dercons appointment by Berlin officials was seen by many as a rejection of the theaters left-wing, experimental pedigree.
The Belgian-born Mr. Dercon, a powerful figure in the art world with relatively little experience in theater, planned to turn the site into a venue focusing largely on international productions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The feud between supporters of Mr. Castorf and the new leadership had become especially heated in recent months, as the official debut of Mr. Dercons tenure approached.
Over 40,000 people signed an online petition to reopen the debate about the theaters future, and for two weeks this summer, feces were deposited in front of Mr. Dercons office door.
His directorship officially kicked off two weeks ago with a 10-hour dance event at Tempelhof.
Mr. Weinstein, who is a longtime supporter of the AIDS organization and was a chairman of the 2015 event, said that he had done nothing wrong and that everyone benefited from the arrangement, which raised $309,669 for amfAR.
I honestly thought we were doing something fantastic for both sides, he said in an interview.
We get money, they get money, and its all our money.
Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher, a law firm hired by the amfAR board, reviewed the $600,000 transaction and determined that it was legitimate and lawful.
But a lawyer who first investigated the way the arrangement was handled concluded that it put the charitys financial integrity at risk, according to several people who reviewed his confidential report, which was commissioned by amfAR.
And in a June 2015 email to the charitys chief financial officer, its chief executive, Kevin Frost, expressed concern: Nothing about this deal feels right to me, and I believe we have not done due diligence to understand exactly what this money is being directed to or why amfAR is being used to facilitate these transfers.
In April of this year, four members of the 19-person board complained to the attorney generals office.
They said that Kenneth Cole, the fashion designer and board chairman, had signed off on the $600,000 transfer despite the clear objections of the executive management team, said their spokesman, Steven Goldberg.
They say board members were never informed that the auction proceeds would help cover the Finding Neverland investors costs.
Mr. Cole said that he welcomed an arrangement that would bring in money for the AIDS cause and that executive staff had signed off on it.
He said that he did not recall Mr. Weinstein telling him it would serve a business deal with the American Repertory Theatre, but that he was satisfied knowing the $600,000 was going to a credible nonprofit.
This wasnt just a man on the street asking  it was someone who has raised a lot of money for us, Mr. Cole said in an interview.
One tends to address requests based on whom theyre coming from.
Photo

It is not uncommon for commercial shows, before they hit Broadway, to go through an incubation period at a nonprofit theater, with infusions of financial support from investors.
Under so-called enhancement agreements, the theaters are able to mount larger productions than their budgets normally allow, while producers and investors get feedback and a chance to polish their shows before going to New York.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What was unusual about the agreement that Mr. Weinsteins theatrical production company, Weinstein Live Entertainment, struck in 2014 with the repertory theater  located in Cambridge, Mass., and affiliated with Harvard University  is that the shows 24 investors would be reimbursed if they brought in third-party charitable contributions.
In the end, $1.95 million in contributions were made to the theater as contemplated by the agreement, according to a July 2015 email from a lawyer for the theater to Mr. Weinsteins lawyer.
In addition to the money that came from the amfAR auction, Mr. Weinstein helped arrange for a $200,000 donation from a family foundation that fights poverty in South Africa, a $600,000 donation from the Louis Vuitton fashion house and hundreds of thousands of dollars more from online charitable auctions.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Lloyd Mayer, a professor of nonprofit law at the University of Notre Dame, said the agreement appeared to allow charitable contributions to serve the private benefit of Mr. Weinstein and the other commercial investors.
Jason Lilien, Mr. Weinsteins lawyer, said it did not matter if the other Finding Neverland investors incidentally benefited from the charitable contributions because the primary purpose was to put on a production for the publics benefit.
The theater declined to comment.
Mr. Lilien said Mr. Weinstein told Mr. Cole that the money raised through the auction would serve a Finding Neverland business agreement.
Orin Snyder, a lawyer with Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher, said in a statement that during our inquiry, Harvey Weinstein disclosed and we confirmed that the contribution was part of his companys Finding Neverland agreement with A.R.T., referring to the theater.
The auction catalog for the amfAR fund-raising gala disclosed that some of the money raised from the sitting with the fashion photographer would go to the theater, but did not note that for the Hollywood experience package arranged by Mr. Weinstein.
Tom Ajamie, the first lawyer hired by the charity to review the $600,000 transaction, concluded that failure to disclose was fraud on the bidders by amfAR, according to people who reviewed the report.
Mr. Weinsteins attorneys said it was a clerical mistake by amfAR.
Mr. Weinstein said that when arranging the charitable contributions that flowed to the theater he told some donors that the funds were to support the Finding Neverland production.
But, he said, it wasnt his responsibility to further disclose that the money would be used to reimburse him and the other investors or otherwise cover their business obligations.
If people wanted to learn more, he said, they could have done internet research.
Today, if you want to know something, its easy, he said.
Google A.R.T., whatever.
You dont want to make a donation to that, dont.
Whatever.
These people arent forced to write a check to A.R.T.
They can Google it, they can call it, they can speak to it, people will answer them.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After Gibson, Dunn & Cutcher concluded its investigation, Mr. Weinstein asked amfAR board members and executive staff to sign pledges that there was no evidence of wrongdoing and that they would not probe further.
In exchange, he said that he will not at any time in the future engage in wrongful conduct involving amfAR.
Explaining why he had sought the non-disclosures, Mr. Weinstein expressed annoyance, saying that he had been dragged into an internal power struggle on amfARs board.
Four members  Vincent Roberti, Mervyn Silverman, Arlen Andelson and Jonathan Canno  refused to sign the document.
The next month, they went to the attorney general.
Since then, two other board members have resigned over the handling of the transaction, according to several people familiar with the resignations.
Mr. Weinstein has helped raise millions of dollars for amfAR over the years at its annual benefit at Cannes, which draws celebrities and is one of the most glamorous charitable events in the world.
In 2016, he also helped arrange a fund-raiser for the organization in New York.
This year, he pledged a $1 million in donations to the charity.
Mr. Weinstein said he paid $600,000 of that commitment this year to try to smooth over the conflict.
I went to them.
I said, Im paying you $600,000  shut up, youre hurting the goddamn charity, he said.
A second musical, Apple Pie, with music by Nicholas Meyers, received much the same treatment when Papp directed it at the Public in 1976.
Feminists were thrilled to see their movements messages on prominent display, but critics were unwelcoming.
Nicholas Meyerss music is Kurt Weill acrid without being Kurt Weill melodic, Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times.
And he concluded with this assessment of Ms. Lambs abilities as a dramatist: I am told that Miss Lamb is a feminist playwright.
I am willing to believe she is a feminist.
Such reviews  most of the critics being male, some of them throwing dismissive remarks about feminism into their reviews  served only as more evidence to support the new feminisms grievances.
Photo

Feminism was then the cause du jour, and Papp, as usual, had his ear to the zeitgeist, Anselma DellOlio, a film critic and director who worked with Ms. Lamb in those early days, said by email.
But Myrnas plays were just too out-there for most men.
Myrna Lila Lamb was born on Aug. 3, 1930, in Newark.
Her father, Melvin, worked a number of jobs to try to make ends meet at the start of the Depression, as did her mother, the former Minna Feldman.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Lamb began working during World War II while still in high school, including, Ms. Hachtman said, in a job at an insurance company that had her supervising adults.
Her writing while in school had caught the attention of her teachers, but her father resisted the idea of college.
Instead, in 1948, Ms. Lamb married Marvin Epstein, whom she had met at a family wedding.
Ms. Lamb had been writing intermittently while raising two children  her archive, Ms. Hachtman said, includes typed manuscripts, notebooks, even notes scrawled on paper plates  but her entry into the New York theater scene can be credited largely to an incendiary episode of The David Susskind Show and an answering service that bailed on its responsibilities.
In 1968 Susskind invited four leaders of second-wave feminism in New York onto his syndicated television talk show: Ms. DellOlio; Rosalyn Baxandall, the feminist historian; Kate Millett, who would soon publish the landmark book Sexual Politics (and who died in September); and Jacqui Ceballos, who was active in the National Organization for Women.
Ms. DellOlio used the occasion to mention that she intended to start a feminist theater, and Ms. Ceballos repeatedly gave the phone number of the New York NOW office, urging women interested in the principles of feminism to reach out.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We got thousands of calls, and the answering service threw us out, Ms. Ceballos said in a telephone interview.
So I answered all those calls, and one of them was Myrna.
Ms. Ceballos invited her to send in some of her writing, and soon Ms. Lamb was the go-to playwright for Ms. DellOlios New Feminist Theater.
The group made its first big splash in 1969, with an evening of Ms. Lambs short works.
One, But What Have You Done for Me Lately?, was about a man who experiences societys double standard firsthand when he wakes up from a medical procedure and a female doctor tells him he has been implanted with a uterus and is pregnant.
He is not happy.
It is natural for a woman to create life, the man complains.
It is not natural for me.
The doctor replies: The dogma of beneficial motherhood has been handed down by men.
If a woman spews out children, she will be sufficiently exhausted by the process never to attempt art, music, literature or politics.
She knows that this is all that is expected of her.
Ms. Lambs work caught the attention of Papp, who had had a huge success with Hair in 1967, and if her stridency did not necessarily lend itself to that sort of musical, it did inflame passions.
Mod Donna, which was about a mnage  quatre and skewered traditional views of marriage, certainly had people taking sides.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I was at opening night with my then-boyfriend, Ms. DellOlio recalled, a deceptively mild-mannered man who rose out of his chair at the curtain and began to shout that feminism was a sham and that he would tell the awful truth about what wretched liars, manipulators, fakes and so on we in the movement were.
I had never seen him in such a rage.
Many men in the audience around us were nodding approval at his outburst.
In addition to Apple Pie, about a Jewish woman who flees Hitlers Germany but finds that life in the United States has its oppressiveness, too, Ms. Lambs works included Crab Quadrille, staged by the Interart Theater in Manhattan in 1976, and Olympic Park, mounted by the same group in 1978.
In a 1976 interview with The Times, Ms. Lamb said the critical response to her two productions at the Public stung.
They dont say, I dont agree with what youve done or how youve done it,  she said.
They say, You cant write.
The feminist playwright label was also beginning to bother her.
Though the feminist movement nurtured all of us, I am disillusioned with it, she said in the same interview.
What I found after I was savagely attacked by critics for Apple Pie was that the women were no different from the men  they are afraid to affiliate with you if you are not an establishment success.
Ms. Lambs husband died in 1985.
In addition to Ms. Hachtman, she is survived by another daughter, Ilsebet Gianna, and two grandchildren.
Ms. Lamb lived her final years with the Hachtman family in Point Pleasant Beach.
Ms. Hachtman said that Joe Papp had given her mother the 40-foot banner for Mod Donna that had hung out front at the Public.
The banner, Ms. Hachtman said, was washed away along with many other memories when Hurricane Sandy flooded their home in 2012.
A lively meditation on mortality and time, The Last Match takes place in the minds of two players during a hard-fought United States Open semifinal.
Mr. Bethel plays Tim, an aging American contemplating retirement.
Mr. Mickiewicz plays Sergei, his volatile Russian challenger.
Ms. Upchurch has decided that while neither actor will need to try an ace or even hold a racket onstage, but both have to look like they could.
Photo

In the interests of authenticity, Ms. Carillo, resplendent in a Billie Jean King T-shirt and baseball jacket, gathered the actors together and taught them a few tricks.
She showed them how to test the tension of the racket by hitting it against the palm, how to swat a ground ball and make it leap into your hand, how to strut back to the baseline after a successful point.
You give them a little attitude, she said.
Its a ritual.
She also showed them a delaying technique Maria Sharapova uses.
Pick at your strings, she said, thats a good one.
Though Ms. Carillo won the 1977 mixed doubles title at the French Open, partnered by her childhood pal John McEnroe, she was quick to downplay her expertise.
I didnt play long and I wasnt that good, she said.
I grew up playing on the same courts as McEnroe.
He was doing things Id never seen anybody do.
She remembered when she was 12 and he was 10, sitting him down and telling him, You are going to be the greatest player in the world someday.
And he looked at me and said, Shut up, you dont know what youre talking about.
The actors seemed a lot less skeptical.
Throughout the morning they toggled between eagerness and mild embarrassment as they quizzed Ms. Carillo about the life of a pro and practiced her techniques.
Natalia Payne, who plays Sergeis fiance, Galina, and who had never held a racket before, seemed a little overwhelmed.
As a first-time player on a court at the United States Open, start high, get Mary Carillo to train you, those would be my tips, she said.
Then she hung her head.
Photo

Mr. Bethel, best known as the bad-boy bartender on the CW comedy Hart of Dixie, seemed the more confident of the two, probably because he played competitive tennis as a teenager and has worked as a coach.
Until fairly recently, he had secretly hoped to turn pro.
Throughout the morning, he harbored a fantasy that maybe Rafael Nadal had somehow hung around after winning the mens title the day before.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Id be like, Hey, do you want a hitting partner?
And he was going to be like, Yeah!
Mr. Bethel confessed.
But even with Mr. Nadal a no-show, Mr. Bethel appeared delighted, even awe-struck by his surroundings.
He described this courtside rehearsal as the most bizarre convergence of two separate dreams.
Im having to pinch myself pretty regularly.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Maybe those dreams arent so separate.
At least thats what Ms. Carillo insisted.
She drew multiple parallels between theater and athletics, insisting that tennis is very creative and that success in either athletics or acting requires total dedication.
Ms. Carillo can speak with some authority, having appeared in the 2004 romantic comedy Wimbledon.
I was fabulous, said Ms. Carillo.
My two scenes saved that film.
Just kidding.
(On that set, she took time out to help the actress Kirsten Dunst with her serve.
She wasnt even bending her knees, Ms. Carillo said.)
Though Ms. Carillo hasnt played a tournament since Wimbledon in 1980, she said that she still woke up in a sweat thinking she had to prepare for a match.
To play tennis, she said, you put it on the line.
Youve got to be committed.
Youve got to be focused.
Its the same thing onstage: Youre up there.
Its on you.
You cant fake it.
Photo

But faking tennis expertise is just what Mr. Bethel, Mr. Mickiewicz and Ms. Winters, who plays Mallory, Tims wife and a former Top 20 womens player, will have to do.
(Happily, Ms. Payne gets a bye.)
When he was younger, Mr. Bethel looked to the gritty players, he said.
I always liked the scrappy guy.
But to play Tim, Mr. Bethel said he took inspiration from more graceful players, particularly Roger Federer, the aging champion who is fighting and sort of conquering time, he said.
(Mr. Bethel, who recently developed tennis elbow in a major way, hasnt been quite so lucky.)
To take on Sergei, a role he created at the Old Globe in San Diego, last year, Mr. Mickiewicz looked to hothead players like the Australian Nick Kyrgios.
Theres a temper there and a self-destructive button, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Winters was feeling wistful about the womens finalists, Madison Keys and the decisive winner Sloane Stephens, two unranked players who came roaring back after injuries in ways that her character Mallory does not.
She began brushing up on her tennis as soon as she was cast.
My forehand is pretty decent, but my backhand and my serve definitely need some attention, she said.
My serve is probably top-notch, Mr. Mickiewicz joked.
He also congratulated himself on his overall swagger and the dour expression that the cast calls tennis face.
Ms. Carillo, watching him from the sidelines, approved.
Hes actually doing a pretty good job, she said.
Hes faking the funk.
Then she looked at his serve more closely.
Not that grip, she murmured.
Hes not going to be able to pronate.
Well, she said more cheerfully, he doesnt have to do that for the part.
Some tennis matches are tragedies.
Some are comedies.
Some are farces.
And the outfits are pretty nifty, too.
With the sports mix of grace and ferocity, brains and brute force, tennis has thwacked its way into plenty of plays, from Shakespeares Henry V to Amanda Peets forthcoming Our Very Own Carlin McCullough.
Heres a sampling of recent stage upsets and smashes.
Photo

Big Bill

The disgraced tennis great Bill Tilden swung again in A.R.
Gurneys biographical drama, which was staged at Lincoln Centers Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater in 2004 and starred John Michael Higgins in the title role.
In his New York Times review, Ben Brantley wrote that the play, about a gentlemanly athlete and dogged sexual predator, diffuses its potential impact by assembling notebooks worth of research and then laying it out in the manner of a conscientious students term paper.
Photo

Hell Meets Henry Halfway

In adapting Witold Gombrowiczs Possessed, the physical theater troupe Pig Iron and the playwright Adriano Shaplin made a Gothic murder mystery a lot sportier.
As intrigue swirls in a Polish country home, characters volleyed balls and accusations.
The Times critic described the 2004 production as a Tilt-a-Whirl of a show that leaves you dizzy and means to.
Photo

Deuce

Terrence McNallys 2007 play is best remembered for its ace cast, Angela Lansbury and Marian Seldes.
They played the members of a long estranged womens doubles team, finally reunited at the United States Open.
Ben Brantley characterized the dramas central conflict as a fight between two valiant, vibrant actresses against a swamp of a play that keeps trying to suck the life out of them.
Photo

Dont You _______ Say a Word

Andy Bragens 2016 four-hander with an unpublishable title premiered at 59E59 Theaters last year.
Mr. Bragens heated outburst during an ostensibly friendly match was its inspiration.
As two men relive the match and the ensuing tirade, their girlfriends provide color commentary.
Photo

Scenes From Court Life, or the whipping boy and his prince

In Sarah Ruhls intricate political drama, directed by Mark Wing-Davey at the Yale Repertory Theater last year, siblings Jeb and George W. Bush vie for dominance on the tennis court and off it, too.
Theyre joined in competition by the Stuart monarchs Charles I and Charles II.
Macduff and Banquo are the main supporting characters, each played by a puppet of sorts: Macduff represented by a hockey glove (Lady Macduff is an oven mitt), Banquo by a foam plate with eyes (his wife is also a plate, but with lashes and a hair bow).
The witches are folded-paper figures  black, of course.
Photo

The eggs, by the way, represent children, and they may break your heart in a way you dont see coming.
The actors manipulate them all, and these simple objects prove versatile vessels for the shows whipsaw mood changes: comic or tender at one instant, brutal or woeful the next.
Each switch is supported by Mr. Stewarts winking sound design, rife with pop-song samples.
Borrowing from the visual language of film, Macbeth Muet takes some of the forms storytelling liberties, too, cutting between present and past to explain how these characters got to their current situation.
Flashbacks show each couple  the Macduffs, the Banquos, the Macbeths  meeting, falling in love and either starting a family or trying to.
We watch the Macbeths, sweetly hopeful, harden with each loss they suffer.
Silent-movie-style placards, sparingly deployed, impart information at moments when text is vital.
One is the famous warning to Macbeth, which he takes as reassurance: that none of woman born shall harm him.
A flurry of placards also arrives near the end, cheekily explicating the loophole that leads to his vanquishment anyway.
Otherwise, though, it is up to the audience to be familiar enough with Macbeth to follow as the actors briskly hit its highlights.
What rescues the show from mere cleverness is its overarching vision, made vivid in a final tableau that would be a spoiler to describe.
In it, we see clearly the needless destruction that the power-mad leave in their wake, and it is revolting.
The Eastern-European-flavored Makbet, in Brooklyn, is an altogether different experience, starting with its setting: a nonprofit recycling center called Sure We Can.
The immersive prelude to this production begins outside, with audience and actors surrounded by tall piles of colorful bottles and cans wrapped in clear plastic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The effect is oddly cheerful.
The live accordion music helps with that, and so does the sustenance that the friendly performers offer around: perhaps a fat chunk of kielbasa to fortify against dark magic?
Or, for the same purpose, a small shot of vodka?
In old-country accents to match the fare, they insist that they distilled the vodka  which on Sunday afternoon was vanilla  out back.
Photo

We make it this morning, stepping on potatoes, the leader of this clan (Matt Mitler, Dzieci Theaters founder) told me.
After he stomped a foot for comic effect, I drank the stuff.
The audience sat in a circle on overturned plastic crates and listened as Mr. Mitler channeled messages from the spirit world for anyone who asked.
At the center of the circle was a garbage can, fire-blackened inside, and I suddenly thought how cozy it might have been for Shakespeares Weird Sisters, gathered around their caldron on a sunny late-summer day.
What I didnt think, then or at any point, was that when we all got up and walked into a corrugated shipping container to watch the play, the door would be shut behind us, which it was.
Im not claustrophobic, but it was about 80 degrees out, and frankly it seemed a little dangerous.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More than that, though, it was distracting  because if sweat is coursing down your body while the air is steadily thickening, you are not in an optimal environment for theatergoing.
We hadnt been in there long when I wondered if this was the dark magic that the vodka and sausage had been meant to fortify against.
Mr. Mitler, who adapted, directed and designed the 90-minute show, is one of its three principals, along with Megan Bones and Yvonne Brechbuhler.
They play nearly all of the roles, handing parts off to one another, sometimes in mid-speech.
Whichever actor is wearing the red shawl at any given moment is Lady Macbeth; whoever dons the black hat with the red band is her husband.
Other characters get their own costume signifiers, all of them pulled out of a big metal pot and clearly explained at the start.
It is a shadowy, dimly lit performance, with a chorus contributing atmospheric music.
The ritual of storytelling is built into the staging, with some remarkably lovely movement sequences.
But Makbet is vastly more interested in magic  the dark kind and the theatrical kind  than it is in the bloody struggle for the crown.
So there is no weight to its tragedy.
It becomes merely an experiment in form.
Photo

The director Anne Kauffman has described the playwright Amy Herzog as an inexhaustible excavator.
Anyone familiar with Ms. Herzogs work is likely to agree.
In plays like After the Revolution and 4000 Miles, Ms. Herzog has dug deep into the terrain where generations intersect, in ways political as well as personal, with a perspective as cleareyed as it is compassionate.
Expect the same traits to be in evidence in her latest offering, Mary Jane, which opens on Monday, Sept. 25, at the New York Theater Workshop.
Staged last spring at the Yale Repertory Theater, Mary Jane is a portrait of a mothers relationship with her chronically ill young son, and of the women she meets in dealing with a life that seems suspended in a state of crisis.
The vibrant actress Carrie Coon (of The Leftovers) takes the title role.
Ms. Kauffman, with whom Ms. Herzog collaborated on Belleville four years ago, directs.
(New York Theater Workshop; nytw.org.)
Photo

Works by Shakespeare arent counted.
But works about Shakespeare are.
A survey by American Theater magazine shows that Shakespeare in Love, the 2014 play about young Wills formative years, adapted by Lee Hall from the wildly successful 1998 film version, will be the most produced play in the United States during the 2017-18 theatrical season.
The play, first staged in London, will have 15 productions across the country, including in Atlanta, Boston and Cleveland.
It has not yet made it to New York City.
The survey, which covered 1,917 productions planned by 380 theaters, also showed that Lauren Gunderson, the author of I and You and The Book of Will, will be the most-produced playwright, with 27 productions, including 8 co-writing credits.
In a statement, Ms. Gunderson said that she hoped it would be an encouraging and motivating moment for women in theater.
She added: Stories by and about women can and must be produced across the country to complete the deep generational narrative that our art form so uniquely puts forth.
American Theater, which has been compiling these annual lists since the 1994-95 season, excludes from its tally plays by Shakespeare (108 this season) and holiday shows like A Christmas Carol (42 coming up).
For the first time, the magazine will celebrate the announcement of its top ten lists with a live-streamed event at the Drama Book Shop in New York, which will feature Ms. Gunderson among other guests.
Other plays that made the most-produced top ten include Lisa Krons Fun Home (12 productions); Simon Stephenss The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time (9); and two Jane Austen entries, Miss Bennet: Christmas at Pemberley, by Ms. Gunderson and Margot Melcon (8), as well as Sense and Sensibility (8).
Runners-up on the most-produced playwrights list include Ayad Akhtar, who topped both lists last year with his Pulitzer Prize-winning play Disgraced, and a few more venerable figures: Tennessee Williams, August Wilson, Eugene ONeill and Oscar Wilde.
JAMES GRAHAM I began writing it at the beginning of 2016, but even before Brexit and Trumps election, I was interested in the way our news discourse was changing online and through social media.
The more aggressive populist language of journalism there made me think about the aggressive populist tone that started with The Sun.
Photo

I was fascinated by these two characters: Rupert Murdoch, who feels very present in our cultural life, and Larry Lamb, expunged from history despite his influence in changing the voice of popular discourse.
But I also had a wider desire to understand the tabloid appeal, and its wider effect on our political life.
And then, its just a damn good story!
What you cant deny is what was in the air: The national mood, the temperature of the country, and particularly the language  the tone of conversation in the media, social media, at the pub.
The presentation of the young Murdoch is very evenhanded.
Did you discover aspects of his character that went against expectations?
BERTIE CARVEL I dont know what I had in mind before I came to the table.
It was important to me not to decide who this guy was before it began.
One of the things that emerged is that Murdoch was a visionary, a story perhaps suppressed by those who think he was an uncouth outsider who just wanted to wreck the shop.
GRAHAM The narrative that has been perpetuated is that we are somewhat sympathetic to Murdoch.
I dont think its that.
Its about understanding human motivation.
I dont think people wake up and think, How can we make the world worse?
What does it mean for this play to be staged in London now, after the phone hacking scandals and the 20th anniversary of Dianas death, often blamed on tabloid hunger for stories?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

CARVEL I think the play shows a bunch of themes and arguments that have huge resonance, and not just in Britain.
Murdoch talks about giving people more choice, more freedom, and that sounds good, specially in opposition to a patrician we-know-whats-good-for-you.
But when you track it through, you see where it may be problematic.
Which is where we are now.
Photo

GRAHAM I would love to think this could be played in 50 years time and have different resonances.
Its the universals of the human experiences that make it last; thats the stuff I had to go away and work harder on when I was writing.
To what extent do we live in Rupert Murdochs world now?
Do you think he knew where media culture was headed?
CARVEL The question is: Was it ever thus?
Did tabloids shift peoples political allegiances or did they follow them?
The idea that Rupert Murdoch can decide who your Prime Minister is  well, I think that even the people who wrote the famous 1992 headline, Its The Sun Wot Won It, didnt think that was true.
But you cant deny the impact of that journalism and those characters in terms of how we talk about ourselves and view ourselves today.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the rehearsal period we had the general election, which no one had expected, and then a result that no one had expected.
Afterward, we had to ask, has the influence of the tabloids diminished because they tried hard, but didnt succeed, in crushing Jeremy Corbyn?
I think that by isolating a moment in history when the power of the tabloids was so great, and their influence so huge, audiences may have that conversation about whether that power is still the same.
There are often parallels drawn between Murdoch and Trump, who are famously friendly.
James, did you think about that while writing?
GRAHAM I thought about Trump a lot during the latter stages of rehearsal.
And also about British figures like Nigel Farage and Arron Banks.
I am fascinated by populism and the contradiction, possibly even the hypocrisy, of the fact that its often men of great privilege and wealth who are the epitome of the establishment, who present themselves as anti-establishment and representative of working-class anger.
But I do think that what drove Rupert Murdoch was more than commercial interests.
Like Trump, even though he was an insider, he felt like an outsider, that people humiliated him, mocked him.
The anger that boiled within fueled the desire for revenge.
But the Murdoch in my play is also driven by the desire to provide a voice to others who feel outside the system, because he had an understanding of what that feels like.
Im not sure thats true for Trump.
THE LAST MATCH at the Laura Pels Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater (previews start on Sept. 28; opens on Oct. 24).
Theater anyone?
In Anna Zieglers play, a meditation on mortality, an all-American on the verge of retirement and a younger Russian challenger face each other across a U.S. Open court.
Gaye Taylor Upchurchs production stars Wilson Bethel and Alex Mickiewicz, with Zo Winters and Natalia Payne as the women in the stands.
212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org

MARY JANE at New York Theater Workshop (in previews; opens on Sept. 25).
Amy Herzog, a playwright with a genius for character and a sense of moral urgency, reunites with the director Anne Kauffman for this new work.
Carrie Coon (Fargo, The Leftovers) stars as a single mother caring for a sick child.
With Liza Coln-Zayas, Danaya Esperanza, Susan Pourfar and Brenda Wehle.
212-460-5475, nytw.org

{MY LINGERIE PLAY} 2017: INSTALLATION #9: THE CONCERT AND CALL TO ARMS!!!!!!!!
THE FINAL INSTALLATION at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater (previews start on Sept. 27; opens on Oct. 9).
Diana Ohs unmentionables have given her a lot to talk about and inspired eight previous installations.
In this culminating event at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, co-directed by Orion Stephanie Johnstone, Ms. Oh will detail her intimate history of intimates, finding the political in the very personal.
866-811-4111, rattlestick.org

TINY BEAUTIFUL THINGS at the Public Theater (in previews; opens on Oct. 2).
Nia Vardaloss adaptation of Cheryl Strayeds Dear Sugar advice columns sweetens another Public Theater season.
Last December, Ben Brantley called it a handkerchief-soaking meditation on pain, loss, hope and forgiveness.
Thomas Kail directs a cast including Ms. Vardalos, with Hubert Point-Du Jour and Natalie Woolams-Torres as the advised.
212-967-7555, publictheater.org

Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
TORCH SONG at Second Stage at the Tony Kiser Theater (previews start on Sept. 26; opens on Oct. 19).
More than 30 years later after this plays first production, a nice Jewish boy is still trying to find a nice man.
Michael Urie stars in Harvey Fiersteins play about a drag queen longing for a husband, children and the love of his mother (Mercedes Ruehl).
Moiss Kaufman directs the balladry.
212-246-4422, 2st.com

THE TREASURER at Playwrights Horizons (in previews; opens on Sept. 26).
Max Posners last play, the sibling comedy Judy, was set a couple of decades in the future.
He bounds back to the present with this tale of an aging, free-spending mother and the grown son assigned to keep control of her purse strings.
David Cromer directs Deanna Dunagan and Peter Friedman.
212-279-4200, phnyc.org

Last Chance

FOR PETER PAN ON HER 70TH BIRTHDAY at Playwrights Horizons (in previews; closes on Oct. 1).
Sarah Ruhls play about a troupe of aging siblings flies off to Neverland.
Though Jesse Green praised some aspects of Les Waterss production, he wrote that for a work like this to fly, it needs a great deal more fairy dust than it gets here.
212-279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org

INANIMATE at the Flea Theater (closes on Sept. 24).
Nick Robideaus play about Erica  a young woman who discovers her objectum sexuality, or objectophilia, and a wholehearted attachment to the sign at the local Dairy Queen  finishes its run.
Ben Brantley praised this play, which also brings to life the objects of Ericas affection, as a sly and very likable comedy.
212-352-3101, theflea.org

THE SUITCASE UNDER THE BED at the Beckett Theater (closes on Sept. 30).
Now that the Mint has staged them, these four short plays by the Irish writer Teresa Deevy (18941963) likely wont be going back into the luggage in which they were discovered.
Andy Webster praised Jonathan Banks direction, writing, He clearly adores Deevy, and ultimately so will the audience.
212-239-6200, minttheater.org
This dame, as it turns out, is full of mischief.
Ms. Dench got an Oscar nomination 20 years ago for playing Victoria in Mrs. Brown, the saga of how the queen grew close to a younger man, a servant who doted on her after her beloved Albert died, outraging her household.
Now she is back in Oscar contention for Victoria & Abdul, the saga of how the queen grew close to another younger man, also a servant who doted on her after the other one died, again outraging her household.
The first of the forbidden relationships was with John Brown, a tall, rugged Scotsman nicknamed the Queens stallion, seven years her junior.
As Julia Baird wrote in Victoria the Queen, Victoria was so ensorcelled by the handsome Brown that she asked to be buried with a lock of his hair and a leather case full of his photos in her hand.
His handkerchief was also placed on top of her body, alongside Alberts.
Photo

The second entanglement, with the added complications of race relations in the colonial age, was with Abdul Karim, a 24-year-old Indian Muslim servant who became the 68-year-old monarchs munshi, or teacher, instructing her on Urdu, the Quran and mangoes.
Ms. Dench is far more padded as the older Victoria.
She was 46 inches around her waist, and she wasnt tall, the actress told me.
It was difficult to go to the loo.
Impossible, actually.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Both movies begin with the small, round queen  widowed after having nine children with Albert  dyspeptic and stony-faced, miserable and in mourning with her black veil, only to show her brightening and melting under the sometimes impertinent ministrations of her attractive younger servants.
Even though her name became a synonym for priggishness, I observe, Victoria was a sexy little thing, wasnt she?
We are not amused, Ms. Dench says with faux hauteur, offering the line associated with Victoria.
Comparing the queen to the interior of a tree (Ms. Dench loves trees), she said: She had a huge passion and need inside her.
She had a happy life with Albert and then those years with John Brown, and then Im sure shed certainly given up by then and was just caught up in the drudgery of everything.
And suddenly, that wonderful kind of flowering, where she thought, This is really something worth living for.
She said she understands that heady state well, discovering someone you can laugh with and learn from.
As a person, she said, Im very, very susceptible.
For 60 years, Ive fallen in love with people.
Is there any advantage in women getting involved with subordinates?
She said they could get smitten with the dustman, the postman, the butcher or the prime minister.
It happens to be about the people.
I ask Ms. Dench about her younger man.
This is where I get up and throw the table down and sweep out, she said with a puckish smile, pounding the table.
Actually, shes quite open about her new beau and hes with her in New York.
Ms. Denchs husband of nearly 30 years, the actor Michael Williams, who sent her a red rose every Friday, died of lung cancer in 2001.
She met David Mills, a conservationist, in 2010 when he invited her to help open a new red-squirrel enclosure at the wildlife center he runs near her home in Surrey, England.
He is 74, and she prefers to call him a jolly nice chap rather than a partner.
Despite losing some eyesight to macular degeneration, Ms. Dench still seems elfin, determined to focus on the pluses.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I tell her that I read a recent interview in RadioTimes with Ginny Dougary that she pointed the reporter in the direction of a lovely naughty knicker shop in Covent Garden but told her not to buy everything there because she was going, too.
I like it, Ms. Dench conceded to me about lingerie, but I dont think about it.
She also told Ms. Dougary that older people should never give up on sex, noting that of course, you still feel desire.
I ask about her tattoos.
She had Swarovski crystal body art spelling out 007 on her shoulder for a Bond gala and premieres and had Carpe Diem engraved on the inside of her wrist in St. Martins for her 81st birthday at the urging of her daughter, Finty.
Most memorably, she etched a message on her bum that said, JD loves HW, with a heart with an arrow through it, in gratitude to Harvey Weinstein for making her a movie star in Mrs. Brown, Chocolat, Iris, Shakespeare in Love and other films, after she had been starring in a sitcom with her husband in England.
As a young actress, she said, someone told her she would never make it in movies because you have everything wrong with your face.
Id like to know where that idiot is working now, Mr. Weinstein tells me.
Probably for Breitbart.
Ms. Dench pulled down her pants and flashed the tattoo at Mr. Weinstein at a celebrity lunch she arranged at the Four Seasons in 2002 with Mike Nichols, Nora Ephron, Carly Simon and others, and again at the BAFTA awards when Mr. Weinstein asked Ms. Dench to show his gift to a skeptical Oprah Winfrey at Royal Albert Hall.
I walked in and I saw Harvey, and I said, Hello, Harvey, and I dropped my pants down, Ms. Dench recalls gleefully.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Winfrey, Mr. Weinstein recalls, turned into a 12-year-old squealing girl after Ms. Dench told her, I hear youve been doubting my love for Harvey?
as she unzipped her pants.
Is the Weinstein tattoo real or simply drawn on by her makeup artist when she needs it, given that she once threatened to switch it to Kevin Spacey when he was the head of the Old Vic?
In her typically saucy fashion, Ms. Dench purrs, How can I possibly tell you?
Ask Harvey.
Mr. Weinstein isnt sure, but he does know this: She is one of the worlds great actresses but also great personalities.
She speaks in the Queens English so elegantly and then shes flirting and speaking like British sailors on shore leave.
Johnny Depp and I will go to our graves thinking shes the hottest of them all.
I ask her if theres a trick, when youre the daughter of a doctor and a wardrobe mistress, to playing a monarch as well as she does.
It is more difficult finding out why youre saying the lines, she says.
It doesnt matter whether youre playing a monarch or youre playing a slut down the street.
Same process.
I wonder why America is still so obsessed with monarchies in culture and politics after breaking away from one, noting our current mad king Trump, the princeling Jared, the princess Ivanka and the way the administration projects racial insensitivity as though it were a colonial power.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Dench says she doesnt watch The Crown and only watched a bit of the recent 20th anniversary commemorations of Princess Dianas death.
I just felt very sorry for the boys, she said.
They didnt ask for this, but they do it well.
Is she surprised that the royal family seems fine with Prince Harry dating an American TV actress who is a divorce and biracial?
Photo

Shes divorced?
Ms. Dench says, sounding very surprised and recalling how Princess Margaret had to break it off with Peter Townsend after Elizabeth felt she couldnt let the marriage go forward because Townsend was divorced.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was really sad and somehow shocking to everybody, Ms. Dench recalls.
I tell her that I am loath to write about Victoria because the topic was so upsetting to my mother, who felt she treated the Irish cruelly.
The actress, whose mother was born in Dublin and whose father went to medical school at Trinity College, gasps and asks me why.
She knows a lot about Victoria, but hadnt read about this.
Though the story that the queen sent only five pounds to the Irish during the famine turned out to be a myth, certainly Victoria was not concerned enough about the million who died.
When a young Ottoman sultan, who had an Irish doctor, wanted to donate 10,000 pounds, the Quinnipiac University professor Christine Kinealy said, British diplomats asked him to reduce it to 1,000, so the queen, who was donating 2,000, wouldnt look mingy.
After Ireland became a republic, Ms. Kinealy recalls, the Irish tore down a statue of Victoria in Dublin, at which point a member of the Irish parliament came running out to wave 5 pounds in front of the statue.
The dishy 30-year-old Bollywood star, Ali Fazal, who plays Abdul Karim, has come to dinner with Ms. Dench.
And over his scallops and Smokey Sour mescal cocktail at the Orangery at the Whitby Hotel in Midtown Manhattan, he offers a story of his own about hated colonial statues.
He was shooting the last scene of the movie, when the queen has died and Abdul is back in India, withering away at the feet of a giant statue of Victoria in front of the Taj Mahal.
Production designers had made the statue, since the Victoria statues that were once all over India had been removed.
Suddenly, a bunch of right-wing Indian nationalists charged the set in Agra.
I start hearing the voices, and theyre hooting and talking about Victoria, Send Victoria away, and We dont approve of this, Mr. Fazal recalls.
So Im like, Oh my God, theyre coming for us.
So Im like, Dude, shut this down, get in the tent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I FaceTimed you from there, remember?
he says to Ms. Dench.
The two have just as much chemistry in person as on-screen, when his brown eyes meet her blue ones, and he sometimes takes her hand as he talks.
(When I tell Ms. Dench Im impressed that she FaceTimes, she demurs, Well, somebody else will press the button.
About Twitter, she notes, I dont do it.
I dont do any of it.
I barely have an ironing board.)
Eddie Izzard, who plays the queens oldest son, Bertie (the future King Edward VII), has said the movie is an edgy story because of what we did to the Indian nation back then.
But it is nowhere harsh enough for others.
Amrou Al-Kadhi, writing in The Independent, scathingly observes that Ms. Denchs Victoria is portrayed as what seems to be the most woke monarch in British history and Abdul seems oblivious to the unimaginable atrocities in India during the Victorian era.
The movie, he argues, seeks to absolve our barbaric behavior in colonized countries.
But other reviews are rapturous, especially about Ms. Denchs Victoria Redux.
The vision of herself that Ms. Dench likes best, she has said, is Tracey Ullmans spoof of her as a rebellious national treasure, shoplifting; throwing poop from her pup, Coriolanus, into trees; breaking all the china in a posh shop; kicking over trash cans and signs; writing I hate pigs with a fire extinguisher when she finally gets arrested.
Because Im a national treasure, I could get away with anything, Ms. Ullmans Judi says innocently as she goes on rampages.
But, of course, I dont.
Ms. Dench told RadioTimes: Its so anarchic, I love it.
Its much more like me than anything else.
She detests being called a national treasure.
I hate that, she tells me.
Its not just tedious.
Its some old rock in a cupboard that the glass is shut on and nobody gets it out to dust it.
I loathe it.
I just want to be called a joker.
A jobbing actor.
Somebody who has a laugh.
RELATED: Maureen Dowd plays a truth game with Dame Judi Dench

She did a funny video with the British rapper Lethal Bizzle, a fan of the actress who uses the word Dench to mean amazing.
She donned a fitted cap, answered to the name Judi Dizzle and repeated his rap, Anywhere I go gang rolling, after Lethal Bizzle explained to the quizzical actress that the line meant that anywhere he goes, his friends are coming with him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When asked why she decided to try her hand at rapping, she says with a shrug, Why ever not?
I ask Dench if she will miss being in the next Bond film.
No, she said, adding, I had the most wonderful time.
James Bond is supposed to get married to the woman he loves in the next installment.
That will go swimmingly, I note mordantly.
Who knows?
she says with a laugh.
Im not around to give him any advice or a sharp look.
She understood why Daniel Craig made a joke about slashing his wrists if he had to do another Bond film.
Its a huge commitment, she says.
But he has a ball.
And the thing is, he wants a theater career, too.
And he went and played Iago, didnt he?
Does President Trump remind her of any Shakespearean character?
Oh, no, Shakespeare didnt get round to that, she says, giggling again.
That would be terrible.
An amused Mr. Fazal chimes in, If you put Iago and him, Iago would be my hero.
Ms. Dench, who got her start in 1957 playing Ophelia and later worked her way through Viola, Lady Macbeth and Cleopatra, agrees with her young co-star that Iago is the superior antagonist, pointing out that Mr. Trump should not be compared to Iago at all.
Iago was very sharp, intelligent, she says.
Quite a witty man.
I say that Mr. Trump is our problem, not hers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Oh, she corrects me in her soft voice, its all of our problem.
I think people are sharing it.
She tries to explain to her young co-star about the wind shear of history.
We danced in the streets the night Tony Blair got in, we actually danced in the streets, she says wistfully, shaking her head.
Why wouldnt they like him now?
Fazal asks.
Because of Iraq, Ms. Dench says.
Because of Iraq.
It was not confirmed.
Look what has happened.
Photo

Maureen Dowd: Youre bored with playing queens?
Judi Dench: Yup, a bit.
You fear hordes of schoolchildren.
Confirm.
Im uneasy about gangs of schoolchildren.
When we did Notes on a Scandal, the very first day was in a school and I was surrounded by children and I dont know, it was frightening.
(Laughs)

Your ideal man is Johnny Depp.
One of them.
You love embroidering rude cushions with bawdy language and giving them to your famous friends.
I used to do that a lot, but my eyesight doesnt let me anymore.
I found someone to make the cushions for me.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Cleopatra was your favorite Shakespearean role.
Impossible to say, but I loved doing Cleopatra because it was a challenge.
She did extraordinary things, didnt she?
And she was very, very proud.
That French directors dont have to spend as much time fund-raising as their American equivalents leaves Mr. Py the time to helm shows, and write novels, essays and plays; sometimes he stages adaptations of his own books, as with this years four-and-a-half-hour extravaganza The Parisians.
He is also in demand at major European opera houses, and has, by his count, directed 35 operas.
When he has a free minute, he acts  he portrayed the writer Maurice Sachs in the biopic Violette, for instance.
Photo

No project is too ambitious.
Directing King Lear?
Mr. Py upped the ante by translating it himself.
The word popular is an important one to Mr. Py.
Our audience [in Avignon] isnt an elite audience at all  the elite doesnt go to the theater, it goes to the opera, he said, laughing.
Tickets for those under 26 cost 18 euros (about $21.50), with a top price of 39 euros (about $46.50).
He added: Avignon is a triumph of popular theater: work that is artistically demanding for a popular audience whos there to enjoy it, and who knows we give a [expletive].
We dont take people for idiots.
It is not always smooth sailing.
The French daily Le Monde trashed The Parisians under the headline Olivier Py, Faust in the backrooms.
The reviews of King Lear were possibly even worse; Cordelia was played by a ballet dancer with her mouth taped shut.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The least you can say is that Mr. Py doesnt go for half-measures.
He made his mark as a writer-director in 1995 with La Servante, whose running time added up to 24 hours.
Baroque and excess often pop up in descriptions of his style.
Miss Knifes gown was not just floor-length, it was also gold; her second outfit was a flamboyant Harlequin-clown hybrid, her third a black feathered tutu.
Her numbers are not just sad, they are tragic, filled with depression, lost loves and suicide: Great classics of chanson!
Mr. Py exclaimed.
The songs are performed straightforwardly, but Mr. Pys banter is surprisingly funny.
Ive been told to speeek like zat because my French accent is very sexy, he said early onstage.
And like all good impresarios, he knows how to surround himself.
Each BAM show features a special guest, and Wednesdays audience was treated to a berserk appearance by Joey Arias, who duetted with Mr. Py on All of Me, then performed a 15-minute Summertime that can be described only as unique.
As soon as he is done with Miss Knifes current gig, Mr. Py will go back to his management role and continue assembling the festivals 2018 edition, which may or may not remedy a glaring absence: Avignon regularly welcomes theater makers from Europe, Africa and Asia, but not Americans (dance fares better, with choreographers like Trajall Harrell making the trip to Provence).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Were working on it, Mr. Py acknowledged.
I adored [Annie Bakers] The Antipodes, but its not touring.
Im putting out a call: If they want to come to Avignon, they are most welcome!
Photo

War Paint, a double-barreled musical starring Patti LuPone and Christine Ebersole, will close on Broadway on Dec. 30 after 300 performances.
The musical depicts the rivalry between two cosmetics entrepreneurs  Helena Rubinstein (Ms. LuPone) and Elizabeth Arden (Ms. Ebersole)  who built competing beauty empires over half a century.
Based on a 2004 dual biography by Lindy Woodhead, the show opened in Chicago in 2016 and transferred to Broadways Nederlander Theater in April.
In his review for the Times, Ben Brantley saved his praise for the two lead actresses, writing, Theyre strategically deploying the knowledge and craft of a combined eight decades in musicals to make us believe that the show in which they appear is moving forward, instead of running in place in high heels.
War Paint was nominated for four Tony Awards, with Ms. LuPone and Ms. Ebersole receiving nominations for best actress in a leading role in a musical.
A representative said the show has not recouped its capitalization of $11 million.
On stage at the Slipper Room this month, Lilly Hayes, the performer known as Miranda Raven, kicked off her black moon boots before zipping out of her astronaut costume to reveal a pair of jeans, white button-down shirt and denim jacket  the signature look of River Song, a character from Doctor Who.
The theater that Thursday night was filled with fans of the BBC series  Whovians, as they call themselves  hooting and applauding at a noise level befitting a boxing match, as Ms. Hayes unabashedly jumped, swiveled, rolled on the floor and shimmied her way around the stage in time with Pinks Trouble.
Photo

By the end of the song, her jeans, shirt, jacket and space gear strewed the floor.
Ms. Hayes was naked, holding up two black signs that said Spoilers  River Songs catchphrase  over her breasts and pubic area.
Welcome to nerdlesque, the geeky, pop-culture offshoot of burlesque that grew out of the art forms 1990s renaissance.
Rather than luring crowds through feminine beauty and glamour, nerdlesque, which has been compared to fan fiction, lets them revel in their nerdoms among like-minded people.
It has gained such a following in New York City that it got its own festival in 2014.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hotsy Totsy Burlesque, which hosted the tribute to Doctor Who, has a lengthy catalog of shows that riff on movies, books and recent TV hits like Mad Men and American Horror Story, as well as classics like The Muppets and Golden Girls.
Its Harry Potter tributes  this years was Harry Potter and the Cursed Pastie: Parts Left and Right  sell out, and every December the group skewers The Star Wars Holiday Special, the ill-fated 1978 TV movie George Lucas would surely like to forget.
Photo

In 2008, Philippe Quint, a classical violinist, left his Stradivarius in the back of a Newark airport taxi.
The driver returned the instrument.
Mr. Quint rewarded him and his fellow cabbies with a command performance.
A similar event triggers The Violin, Dan McCormicks clumsily crafted, finely acted and, yes, high-strung drama.
In the director Joseph Dischers production, presented by the Directors Company and ShadowCatcher Entertainment at 59E59 Theaters, the elderly Gio (Robert LuPone) spends his evenings sewing in his East Village tailors shop.
(Harry Feiner designed the remarkable, ultrarealistic set, from its scuffed linoleum floor to its begrimed ceiling, with piles of clothes and various sharp objects scattered in between.)
One night, his needlework is disturbed by the staggered arrivals of Bobby (Peter Bradbury), a volatile tough guy who needs to be kept away from fabric shears, and Terry (Kevin Isola), Bobbys cognitively impaired brother.
Bobby and Terrys parents were murdered years before.
These days Bobby has a heavy interest in petty crime; Terry works menial jobs.
He has just quit his latest gig as a gypsy-cab driver.
His parting gift?
A fiddle forgotten by one of his fares.
Photo

Terry, not the smartest pin in the cushion, imagines that he might become a professional and play Carnegie Hall.
Or maybe even in the subway tunnels.
Inspired, he saws at the poor, defenseless instrument.
The resulting sound suggests a cat being enthusiastically disemboweled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It turns out the fiddle is a 1710 Stradivarius.
Realizing its value, Bobby devises a new, more dangerous plan.
Gio inexplicably tries to cut himself in on the deal.
Photo

Competition is inherently dramatic, yet sports have been woefully underrepresented on stage.
When they have, whether in Damn Yankees, Take Me Out or Lombardi, the focus has largely been on relationships rather than the beauty, power and endorphin-fueled giddiness of athletic feats.
(Boxing is the exception, with Beautiful Burnout and even the musical Rocky.)
The new show One Night Only (running as long as we can), from Monica Bill Barnes & Company, attempts to highlight the physicality of sport, and for it to be hatched by a modern choreographer like Ms. Barnes is fitting.
Sport is movement, often gruelingly so, and it incorporates repetition, competition (with oneself or others) and performance.
This is perfect for the ecumenical Ms. Barnes, who has also long been interested in a broad range of inspirations and performing spaces  One Night Only is playing Off Broadway at the WP Theater (formerly known as the Womens Project Theater) rather than at a dance theater like the Joyce.
Tellingly One Night Only is not so much about rivalry as it is about complicity.
Ms. Barnes and her stage partner, Anna Bass, have been collaborating for years and clearly share a near-telepathic bond.
Then there is the rapport they establish with the audience  sometimes friendly and sometimes less so, as when Ms. Bass coerced us into groan-inducing group participation, then demanded that a volunteer confess her age.
Photo

Over the course of an hour, the two dancers, in black tailored pants and white tank tops, go through vignettes of aerobic intensity  leaps, extensions, spins, jogs  often flecked with flashes of mischievous humor.
For instance, the show opens with Ms. Barnes and Ms. Bass running on side-to-side treadmills; the smoothness of their stride remains constant, even when they reapply their makeup or put on feathered headdresses.
Not every audience member will have the same experience or encounter the same characters.
So heres a chance to meet six KPOP performers.
And true to the art form, some are experienced, others are novices, and not all of them are Korean.
Photo

Jason Tam

PORTRAYS Epic, a performer in the five-member boy band F8 (pronounced fate).
Half-Korean, half-American, he was brought in to make the band viable in America, said Mr. Tam, causing tensions with his bandmates, who are all Korean.
INSPIRED BY Justin Timberlake and Exo, a boy band that performs in Korean and Mandarin.
KOREAN?
Mr. Tam is Chinese, Hawaiian and Caucasian.
He learned the Korean songs in the show by recording himself on his iPhone and listening and adjusting accordingly.
PREPARATION A weeklong cast boot camp, eight-hour days that included body conditioning, swag exercises and learning four songs a day.
Theres a lot of drilling, more than in regular musical theater, said Mr. Tam, who has been on Broadway in A Chorus Line, among other shows.
They make it look so easy, but it takes so much blood, sweat and tears that you dont see.
Photo

Jinwoo Jung

PORTRAYS Oracle, a member of F8 who objects to the groups attempts to be more Americanized.
INSPIRED BY The chance to pursue a lifelong dream.
K-pop was something I always yearned for and I was never brave enough to reach out to, he said, citing the rigorous training.
He became an actor instead.
KOREAN?
Yes; Mr. Jung was born in South Korea and moved to the United States five years ago.
PREPARATION Watches videos of live performances by Big Bang, a K-pop boy band, before he goes on: I always want to have their attitude.
Photo

Deborah Kim

PORTRAYS XO, a member of the six-member girl group Special K. Shes the rapper, like a bad bitch, Ms. Kim said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

INSPIRED BY For her KPOP audition, Ms. Kim performed a Korean rap from the song Fan by the male hip-hop trio Epik High.
I really liked that I was cast as the rapper, because thats something Im interested in.
KOREAN?
Yes; Ms. Kim was born in New Jersey and speaks Korean.
What helped me learn Korean was watching Korean dramas, Ms. Kim said.
And driving by Flushing and trying to read the signs really fast.
APPEAL OF THE SHOW It has made her realize that being something-hyphen-American is its own identity and culture  very beautiful and also very real.
Photo

Sun Hye Park

PORTRAYS Callie, a member of Special K who is told that she needs to lose her accent in order to be more marketable to Americans.
INSPIRED BY Girls Generation, the eight-member girl group.
KOREAN?
Yes; Ms. Park was born in South Korea and moved to the United States five years ago.
PREPARATION This is the first time Ms. Park has performed in a musical.
Im not really a singer and Im not really a dancer, she said.
Every day, every night, when Im back home, I always rehearse in front of the mirror.
Its been illuminating: I never thought about K-pop stars as really performers.
Because they are always being pretty and sexy, like dolls.
But singing and dancing and being pretty and everything  its so hard!
Photo

Ashley Park

PORTRAYS MwE, a solo artist who at 26 is considered too old to be a pop star.
INSPIRED BY Beyonc (I feel totally barbaric using Beyonc in the same sentence as compared to myself!)
and BoA, a solo artist who sings both K-pop and J-pop (Japanese pop).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

KOREAN?
Yes, though born in California.
Ive never been to Korea, she said.
APPEAL OF THE SHOW After appearing on Broadway in Sunday in the Park With George and The King and I, shes thrilled to be part of a show with a large Asian cast where race is incidental: Its very subversive in that youre seeing all these human interactions and drama, and you forget everyone that youre seeing is Asian.
Photo

Ebony Williams

PORTRAYS Jenn, a choreographer for Special K.

KOREAN?
The only non-Asian cast member, Ms. Williams also does double duty as the dance captain for KPOP.
APPEAL OF THE SHOW Ms. Williams was a dancer on Beyoncs Formation world tour.
As an African-American woman, the struggles are so similar, she said.
A lot of the things that theyre doing in order to be perfect  changing their faces and having surgeries and things like that  its so relevant here in America.
Theres such a similarity in cultures, even though theres so many differences at the same time.
Photo

The Reader Center is a newsroom initiative that is helping The Times build deeper ties with our audience.
Last week, our Theater section ran a review headlined A Play With a Crude Name and a Powerfully Dark View.
The play, by the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Suzan-Lori Parks, is a Critics Pick.
The name of the play does not appear within the review, in the information box at the bottom of the page or in the articles URL.
In the sixth paragraph, the co-chief theater critic Ben Brantley writes:

I suppose this is the place to note that, since I am not a character in this work but an employee of The New York Times, I shall be referring to this play only as A.
(The full title places an Anglo-Saxon adjective before the A, one commonly used on cable television but not considered fit for print here.)
Readers whose imaginations were running wild  what could the name be?
could confirm or debunk their suspicions by clicking the link to the Signature Theater in the fourth paragraph, or by clicking the Find Tickets button.
(For clarity, another link to the play was later added to the full title, as seen in the excerpt directly above.)
Photo

The majority of the comments on the review have been critical of our decision not to name the play; none praised us for our decision (though the prolific commenter Freddies ditty could be seen as sympathetic).
A sampling:

Given the rather grisly subject matter, Im wondering if the people who might attend the play would get the vapors if they were to see the name in print.
Were all adults here.
And given recent events, I suppose if Anthony Scaramucci had written the review wed have gotten the name, along with a few other Anglo-Saxon epithets to boot.
gemli, Boston Im all in favor of The Times avoiding the gratuitous use of expletives.
But its insulting and distracting to the reader that the paper is afraid to use at least once a word thats so essential to the article.
And frankly, its bad journalism.
The Times needs to reconsider this archaic policy.
Eric, Connecticut It was silly and distracting for Mr. Brantley to withhold the name of the play in its full written form.
Weve heard far more offensive language by presidential candidates (and presidential cousins) in Access Hollywood segments.
So lets not feign pearl-clutching; lets just get on with it!
Douglas R. Santoni, Seattle

Additionally, would-be theatergoers who are searching for reviews of this play may not be able to find our review because were lacking the proper keywords.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We asked our standards editor, Philip B. Corbett, to explain: Why would we review a play but not name it?
We have wrestled with this problem in various forms for years, and I admit this is far from a perfect solution.
To be clear, we dont think our readers are nave or exceptionally delicate, or will faint dead away at seeing a vulgar word.
On the other hand, we strive over all for a tone thats thoughtful and civil.
Weve loosened up quite a bit in recent years and make exceptions in some cases, but we have still tried to keep a high bar for flat-out obscenities.
The basic idea is that just because a playwright (or website owner, or rock band, etc.)
wants to use an obscene name for their own purposes, we are not obligated to repeat it (youd be surprised how often it comes up).
At the same time, its unfortunate if that makes it harder for our readers to find what they are looking for; we hope the link in the story helps on that front.
We dont always shy away from obscenities.
In July, we published the vulgar comments that Anthony Scaramucci, then the White House communications director, gave during an interview with The New Yorker.
Cliff Levy, our deputy managing editor for digital, explained the decision at the time in a Bulletin Board post: We decided that it was newsworthy that a top aide to President Trump used such language.
Photo

Lauren Yee has won the National Arts Clubs 2017 Kesselring Prize, awarded to emerging playwrights since 1980.
She will receive $25,000 and two-week residency at the club.
Her play In a Word, in which a childs disappearance haunts a mother, ran Off Broadway this summer to critical acclaim.
Alexis Soloski named the play a New York Times Critics Pick in June, describing it as a sad and breathless and often pretty funny play about the ways in which loss mangles our world and garbles our speech.
Ms. Yees first professionally produced play was Ching Chong Chinaman, in 2010, about a Chinese-American immigrant family, and she has since written several works for Off Broadway, including The Hatmakers Wife.
Her latest, The Great Leap, follows an American basketball team traveling to Beijing in the 1980s, and will come to the Atlantic Theater Company in May.
The play made the 2017 Kilroys List, which honors plays by women.
The award will be presented in a ceremony at the National Arts Club on Nov. 5.
Ms. Yee will be given the opportunity to reside there for two weeks to develop new work.
Previous winners of the award, named in honor of the playwright Joseph Kesselring (Arsenic and Old Lace), include Lucas Hnath and Tony Kushner.
However predictable their arcs, these characters are far more fascinating than the usual lifeboat crew, and Mr. Dawkins, a Chicago playwright making his New York debut, deserves credit for ushering them to the stage.
Whenever Charm focuses on their lives outside of class it maintains at least a documentary interest.
But within the class, the noisy action  all shade and byplay  is too often superficial.
Photo

The potential for real conflict is largely left unexplored.
(Perhaps thats inevitable in a play inspired by and dedicated to a real person, a woman named Gloria Allen who taught a similar class at Chicagos Center on Halsted.)
Mama is not, for instance, politically correct.
A practical accommodationist, she advises conformity in manner and dress as a way of getting ahead.
Have pity on the straight people, she tells the class.
They get confused so easily.
Such admonitions put her in conflict with contemporary identity politics, and thus with the ideals of the institution where she volunteers.
Mr. Dawkins chooses to play that conflict out between Mama and the centers youth programs administrator, a nonbinary straw person so brittle as to bridle at Mamas reference to her cohort of old trannies.
(Thats not a word that we use, the administrator, played by Kelli Simpkins, splutters.)
How much more compelling it would have been if the issue were instead contended between Mama and her students, who use whatever words are needed.
Lacking scenes that truly test her philosophy, Mama is reduced to a collection of uplifting attitudes and sassy ripostes.
Sandra Caldwell, who came out as transgender while auditioning for the role, gets the rhythms right but has little else to play; Mr. Dawkins lets all of the characters attempted lessons dribble away before they lead to believable change or even practical information.
We never learn much about the forks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Having read and liked two of Mr. Dawkinss earlier plays  The Homosexuals and Le Switch  I was surprised by this lack of dramatic follow-through, and by the tendency to signpost themes as if doubting the audiences ability to discern them without help.
The MCC Theater production, directed by Will Davis, is similarly earnest and awkward.
Still, when Mamas focus narrows to individuals instead of the group, in one-on-one scenes with Beta (Marquise Vilson) and Ariela (Hailie Sahar), authentically moving moments emerge.
That authenticity is in part the result of MCCs admirable effort to cast the play with transgender people and others whose life experience bears on their characters.
This means that some of the actors are inexperienced, or even making professional stage debuts.
It shows.
But the usual markers of success may not apply to Charm.
Like gay plays starting in the 1970s, and black plays and Jewish plays and others before them, this is first-wave theater about a newly empowered cultural identity.
Success in that context may mean simply getting a place at the table.
In which case  sorry, Ms. Post  forks, and critics, are irrelevant.
Photo

Betsy LaQuanda Ross, the intense and charming chatterbox at the center of Liza Jessie Petersons The Peculiar Patriot, is nothing if not a devoted friend.
When she makes the long slog by bus to see her bestie, Joann, Betsy often brings something to show.
Lately shes started working on a quilt, and its first square represents Joann.
In the visiting room of a womens prison in upstate New York, Betsy pulls the square out of a zip-lock bag and lays it on the table between them.
Now I gave you an orange full moon because youre full of potential, she says, all gentle encouragement, and I put three shooting stars, one for each of your kids: June-bug, Mookie and Nay-Nay.
In the sweet affection of those childrens nicknames, we instantly sense the breadth of Joanns universe.
With less than two years to go behind bars, she has a whole precious life waiting for her outside.
Video

Directed by Talvin Wilks in a strikingly designed world-premiere production at the National Black Theater, The Peculiar Patriot excels at visceral moments like that, even as it builds a strong case against the mass incarceration of African Americans and the effects of a racially skewed justice system.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Presented with Hi-Arts, this is a comedy about a tragedy, and a patriotic call for reform.
Ms. Peterson wants us to sit a while with the people our justice system puts away and think about what we could be doing differently.
To Savor: Pirogi With a Broadway Pedigree

Photo

After the musical Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812 closed on Broadway this month, the producers  including Darren Sussman and Roman Gambourg  realized there was such enthusiasm for the production that they decided to keep up the interest by opening a place to serve pirogi.
(Theatergoers were given a small box containing one potato pirogen at the start of the show.)
Samovarchik, a little spot with a counter and a few seats indoors and out, offers a menu of Russian specialties made from the recipes of Lena Gambourg, a native of St. Petersburg, a real-estate broker and Mr. Gambourgs mother.
Pirogi, pelmeni dumplings, savory kachapuri pastries, borscht and beef stroganoff are among the richly alluring temptations: Samovarchik, 11 Stanton Street (Bowery), 646-882-0333.
To Sweeten: Rare Honeys to Impress Your Host

Photo

An impressive gift for the Jewish High Holy Days is sourwood honey, in a tall, slender bottle from Savannah Bee Company.
The company produces it from time to time, and this seems a banner year.
The light amber, floral-scented honey from the mountains of North Carolina and northern Georgia is buttery and rich.
Supplies of the gold reserve, shown above, are limited; the standard sourwood honey is more generally available.
The company also has another rarity, Black Sage Honey, an earthy desert honey from California and Mexico: Sourwood Honey Gold Reserve, $99 for 20 ounces in gift package; Sourwood Honey, $40 for 20-ounce flute in box, $38 without box, $22 for 12 ounces; Black Sage Honey, $25 for 20 ounces in flute, $27 with box, $16 for 12 ounces, savannahbee.com.
To Shop: Spanish Ingredients to Take Home

Photo

In preparing for his job as the chef of the new restaurant Casita, Mikel de Luis spent a great deal of time searching for what he considered to be the best ingredients for his modern Spanish menu, featuring a long list of tapas and paellas.
With the encouragement of the restaurants owners, Medhat Ibrahim and Anastasi Hairatidis, Mr. de Luis has created a retail boutique in the front of the airy dining room to sell meats, cheeses, vinegars, condiments and other items from small producers in Spain.
I look for products from small producers, not big companies, which are hard to find, Mr. de Luis said: Casita, 681 Washington Street (Charles Street), 212-989-2001, casitany.com.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To Pickle: A Kit to Simplify Sauerkrauts and Kimchis

Photo

Fermenting can be tricky, but a new kit to aid in brining sauerkrauts will help simplify the process.
Unlike pickle-making, which uses acidity and sugar to preserve vegetables, brining does not.
The Easy Fermenter includes lids that help create a vacuum to protect the mixture from contamination (notably mold).
The lids fit ordinary quart canning jars (not included) and have a built-in date-tracker.
A pump (available with the lids) can reinforce the vacuum.
My batch of napa cabbage sauerkraut took a good four weeks to reach a satisfying cure, but I considered the effort, my first, to be a success: Easy Fermenter, $33.99, nourishedessentials.com.
