WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. senators made a last-ditch effort on Monday to secure support for the latest Republican attempt to repeal former President Barack Obamas signature healthcare law, releasing revised legislation to appeal to undecided senators.
The bill had faced possible defeat this week as several senators in the party voiced concerns.
The Senate is up against a Saturday deadline for deciding the fate of the 2010 Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare, because of an expiring rule that lets the Republican healthcare legislation pass with just a simple 51-vote majority, instead of the 60-vote threshold needed for most measures.
Republicans, who control the Senate 52-48, were finding it difficult even to clear that lower hurdle.
The Senate Finance Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on Monday in an attempt to build support for the bill and to tamp down Democratic criticism that the measure has not been thoroughly vetted.
Republican senators leading the effort on Monday released a revised version of their bill, originally introduced by Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy.
It included a table that said some states where senators have been undecided, such as Alaska and Maine, would do better under the bill than under current law.
The Washington Post first reported the revision.
For seven years, Republicans have hammered Obamacare as an unwarranted and overly expensive government intrusion into American healthcare.
Republican President Donald Trump made repealing Obamacare one of his top campaign promises in 2016.
Democrats have fiercely defended it, saying it has extended health insurance to millions.
Democratic leaders roundly rejected the revised draft as a sleight of hand to gain support.
The last attempt to repeal Obamacare fell one vote short in July, in a humiliating setback for Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Protesters, mostly handicapped, line the hallway outside the Senate Finance Committee hearing room hours ahead a hearing on the latest Republican effort to repeal Obamacare on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

The Graham-Cassidy bill would take federal money spent on the Medicaid program for the poor and disabled, as well as subsidies to help Americans buy private insurance, and divvy it up to the states in block grants.
Advocates say that would give states more discretion to manage their own healthcare schemes.
Opponents fear that undoing Obamacare will mean millions lose healthcare, including some with pre-existing medical conditions.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office is expected to produce as early as Monday a preliminary analysis of the bill that would assess its impact on budget deficits.
Slideshow (4 Images)

More time is likely needed for the CBO to gauge how the bill could affect Americans access to health insurance.
Opposition to the Graham-Cassidy plan grew on Sunday.
Conservative Republican Senator Ted Cruz, speaking at an event in his home state of Texas, warned on Sunday that Trump and McConnell could not count on his vote.
Cruz has pushed for greater government cost savings in healthcare.
Moderate Republican Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who voted against her partys bill in July, said on CNNs State of the Union on Sunday that it was difficult to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill.
She worried about cuts to Medicaid benefits to the poor and disabled.
It was unclear whether the revisions would sway the Republican holdouts.
U.S. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer dismissed the late effort to revise the bill and add money for a few states, calling it just as bad for those states and the rest of the states because it still contains a massive cut to Medicaid.
A total of three Republican defections would kill off the latest effort to repeal Obamacare.
Republican Senators John McCain and Rand Paul already have registered their opposition.
(Reuters) - Intellipharmaceutics International Inc said on Monday the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) declined to approve its long-acting opioid painkiller in its current form, backing its independent advisory panel that had raised concerns over the drugs abuse-deterrence capabilities.
The decision comes at a time when the United States is battling with the opioid abuse crisis, which claimed more than 33,000 people in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The FDA asked Intellipharma to complete additional studies to assess the abuse-deterrent properties of the drug when used via oral and nasal methods, the company said.
Toronto-based Intellipharmas drug, Oxycodone ER, designed as a unique abuse-deterrent version of Purdue Pharmas oft-abused blockbuster OxyContin, contains a blue dye and a nasal irritant, that could help identify abusers and discourage misuse.
The FDA, however, requested additional information related to the inclusion of the blue dye in the drug.
The panel of independent advisers, which had voted 22-1 against approving the drug in July, had also raised questions about the ingredients potential toxicity.
The company has been given one year to respond to the FDAs requests, Intellipharma said, adding that it can request additional time if necessary.
In an attempt to combat opioid abuse, federal authorities have implemented a slew of measures to limit the supply of such drugs, especially by requiring drugmakers to prove their painkillers deter abuse.
A number of states and local governments have filed lawsuits against opioid drugmakers and wholesale distributors holding them accountable for a national drug addiction epidemic.
In June, the FDA called for the removal of Endo International Plcs long-acting opioid painkiller, Opana ER, after a panel of advisers concluded that the drugs benefit did not outweigh its risks.
It was the first time the agency had asked for the withdrawal of an opioid for public health reasons.
A month later, Endo withdrew Opana ER from the market.
PARIS (Reuters) - France is open to phasing out common weedkiller glyphosate, the government said on Monday, following complaints from farmers worried about a potential imminent ban.
Prime Minister Edouard Philippe reiterated Paris would vote against the European Commissions proposal to extend for 10 years the license for glyphosate, which is used in Monsantos Roundup, citing uncertainty about its safety.
A vote is due to take place by the end of the year.
However, Philippe said the French government had asked the farm and environment ministries to propose by the end of the year a plan to move away from glyphosate in light of the current research and available alternatives for farmers, signaling a readiness to accept a gradual phasing out.
A government spokesman earlier referred to the end of the presidents five-year term in mid-2022 as a potential start date for a full ban, while Agriculture Minister Stephane Travert on Friday spoke of a five- to seven-year phase out period.
The Commission, the EU executive, proposed extending glyphosates license after the European Chemical Agency (ECHA) said in a study in March it should not be classified as a cancer-causing substance, contradicting an earlier study by an agency of the World Health Organization.
A government source also said France, the EUs largest grain grower and exporter, was asking the Commission to present a plan for phasing out glyphosate, but denied any timeframe had been set.
French farmers welcomed the prime ministers statement.
This means Matignon (the prime minister) is starting to understand that a full ban would be impossible to apply in France.
This is already an easing in position, Christiane Lambert, head of Frances largest farm union FNSEA, told reporters after meeting Environment Minister Nicolas Hulot.
Three hundreds farmers protested on Pariss landmark Champs-Elysee shopping street on Friday against Hulots position against the renewal of glyphosates license.
Farmers say there is no alternative to the product.
A European Commission source said a vote due on Oct. 5-6 on the license had been postponed for at least a month.
A failure to renew the license by the end of the year would see a ban kick in automatically on Jan. 1, 2018.
(Reuters) - Intercept Pharmaceuticals Inc said its liver drug, Ocaliva, could carry a boxed warning to help ensure proper dosing but does not expect the updated labeling to be restrictive, sending its shares higher.
The stock, which had dropped 41 percent over the past two trading days, rose as much as 6.2 percent on Monday.
Shares were up 1.5 percent at $62.40 in late morning trade.
Chief Executive Mark Pruzanski said the company was not anticipating on changes that restrict the use (of the drug) in any part of the population as of today, based on the discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
A boxed warning on the label is FDAs strictest warning and calls attention to serious or life-threatening risks of a drug.
Ocaliva, approved last May, is used to treat primary biliary cholangitis (PBC), a rare, chronic liver disease that causes bile ducts in the liver to become inflamed, damaged and destroyed.
On Thursday, however, the FDA warned about Ocaliva being incorrectly dosed in some patients with PBC, increasing the risk of liver injury and death.
Nineteen deaths and 11 cases of serious liver injury were associated with the use of Ocaliva, the FDA said.
Ocalvia accounted for nearly all of the companys $30.9 million in total revenue in the second quarter ended June 30.
LONDON (Reuters) - PureTech subsidiary Gelesis is moving closer to filing for regulatory approval of its obesity treatment Gelesis100 after results of its latest study, it said on Monday.
Gelesis100 achieved meaningful weight loss of 5 percent or more in 58 percent of adults in the study, meeting one of two clinical targets, with almost twice as many adults losing 10 percent or more of their body weight compared with those taking a placebo.
It noted, however, that the study did not meet the other target of a 3 percent average difference from the placebo.
Given the demonstrated weight loss and safety profile, Gelesis plans to discuss filing with regulatory authorities and, if they are supportive, plans to file for approval, it said.
Gelesis100 is a capsule that contains small hydrogel particles that hydrate to almost 100 times their original size in the stomach.
The particles are made from two naturally derived ingredients and mix homogeneously with food in the body to reduce hunger, leading to weight loss.
Once in the large intestine, the particles release most of the water, which is reabsorbed.
Analysts at broker Liberum said this is not the perfect result for PureTech, given one of the two primaries was missed.
However, the proportion of patients losing 5 percent of body weight was almost twice the target, and the safety profile looks so clean from the top-line data that this would appear to deliver meaningful risk/benefit, they said.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan will weigh the concerns of U.S. drug firms in its efforts to complete by year-end a drastic revision of its drug-pricing system, aimed at reining in medical spending and cutting the public burden, the health minister said on Friday.
Japan is battling to cut the annual increase in welfare spending to around 500 billion yen ($4.5 billion) in the next fiscal year, and drug price cuts have a key role in the ministrys strategy.
Katsunobu Kato said he would back fiscal reform by sticking with a cap on increases in social security spending to fund services for Japans fast-ageing population.
Ive directly heard opinions from the U.S. pharmaceutical industry, Kato told Reuters in an interview.
We will thrash out a drastic revision by the year-end, while hearing opinions of interested parties through Central Social Insurance Medical Council.
The council is an expert panel that advises the ministry and canvasses the views of industry representatives.
Japan wants to cut healthcare costs and drug prices even if this provokes opposition from U.S. drug firms and lobby groups in Washington over the prospect of eroding profits.
FILE PHOTO: Medicines on a shelf of a prescription pharmacy is seen through its window in Tokyo, Japan, December 20, 2016.
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon

Kato, a close aide of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, declined to comment on reports that the premier will call an election next month and delay the timetable for fiscal reform to boost education spending.
Last December, Japan said it would review official drug pricing every year, instead of every two years, and widen the review to all prescription drugs, following drastic price cuts for two blockbuster drugs, among them cancer drug Opdivo.
The United States has urged Japan to reassess its system of drug pricing set by the government, for fear it could lead to price cuts on new, expensive drugs.
We need to respond to overall fiscal consolidation, Kato added.
On the other hand, we also need to meet peoples demand for measures to cope with an aging society.
People aged 65 and older number a record 34.6 million, or 27.3 percent of Japans population - the highest among advanced nations, official data show.
Annual budget requests from government offices topped 100 trillion yen ($894 billion) for a fourth straight year in fiscal 2018, with the health ministry seeking the biggest chunk, about 31.4 trillion yen, an increase of 630 billion over this fiscal year.
Asked about the weighting of stock investment by Japans Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF), the worlds largest pension fund, with $1.3 trillion under management, Kato said:

Were not planning now to change the present portfolio.
Its up to the (GPIF) management to make decision as appropriate.
The Allergan logo is seen in this photo illustration in Singapore November 23, 2015.
REUTERS/Thomas White

(Reuters) - A Native American tribe holding patents for drugmaker Allergan Plc (AGN.N) on Friday moved to dismiss a case brought by generic drug company Mylan NV (MYL.O) challenging the patents.
In a filing to the U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal Board, the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe asked that Mylans case seeking to invalidate Allergans patents on dry-eye medicine Restasis be thrown out on the grounds that the board has no jurisdiction over the tribe.
The move was expected after Allergan announced on Sept. 8 that it had transferred Restasis patents to the tribe in order to protect them from administrative challenges.
Mylan in late 2016 asked the patent board to invalidate Allergans Restasis patents so it could launch its own generic version of the medicine, which generated $1.5 billion in revenue for Allergan last year.
A lawyer for Mylan said at a Sept. 11 court hearing that the company would vigorously oppose Allergans efforts, calling the deal with the tribe a sham transaction.
In its court filing on Friday, the tribe said it is sovereign government that cannot face litigation in an administrative court unless it expressly waives its immunity or the U.S. Congress abrogates immunity.
Neither of these exceptions apply here, the tribe said.
The tribe will receive a one-time payment of $13.75 million and annual royalties of around $15 million under the arrangement, Allergan said.
Allergan has come under fire over the deal, with U.S.
Senator Sherrod Brown criticizing the drug company for exploiting a loophole to keep its prices high.
The company has said the transfer is only intended to shield the patents from review at the patent board, which it has called a flawed forum for patent disputes.
Allergan has said it will not invoke tribal immunity in federal courts.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Roche immunotherapy Tecentriq has won European Union approval for treating advanced lung and bladder cancer, the Swiss drugmaker said.
The European Commission approved Tecentriq, also known as atezolizumab, as a monotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after patients have been treated with chemotherapy.
The Commission also approved the drug as a monotherapy for treating people with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) who have been treated with a platinum-containing chemotherapy or who are considered ineligible for cisplatin chemotherapy, Roche said.
We are delighted that the European Commission has approved Tecentriq, the first anti-PD-L1 cancer immunotherapy approved in the EU, as a monotherapy in both advanced bladder and advanced lung cancer, chief medical officer Sandra Horning said in a statement late on Friday.
The therapy is already approved in the United States and several other countries for people with metastatic NSCLC, people with mUC who are not eligible for cisplatin chemotherapy, or those whose disease progresses during or after platinum-containing therapy.
Roche is counting on the immunotherapy to help offset the loss of sales from biologic cancer drugs facing cut-throat competition from so-called biosimilar rivals.
It generated first-half sales of 237 million Swiss francs ($245 million).
BOSTON (Reuters) - Aegerion Pharmaceuticals Inc will plead guilty to two misdemeanors and pay $40.1 million to resolve investigations into its marketing and sales of an expensive cholesterol drug, U.S. authorities said on Friday.
The settlements will resolve long-running investigations into Aegerion, a subsidiary of Canadas Novelion Therapeutics Inc, by the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission related to its drug Juxtapid.
Under the agreements, Aegerion will plead guilty to two misdemeanor drug misbranding violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, pay $36 million to resolve cases by the Justice Department and pay $4.1 million to settle the SECs lawsuit.
It also entered into a deferred prosecution agreement to resolve a charge that it conspired to violate the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.
The settlements finalized agreements Aegerion disclosed in May 2016.
The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company in November merged with QLT Inc and became a subsidiary of the newly named Novelion.
We are eager to get the problems that occurred with Aegerion under prior leadership behind us, and we believe these agreements are in the best interest of shareholders, Aegerion said in a statement.
Prosecutors said after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2012 approved Juxtapid for treating a rare genetic condition that causes high cholesterol, Aegerion promoted it for patients who had not been diagnosed with the condition.
Juxtapid, which cost $250,000 to $300,000 annually per patient, featured a black box warning on its label that it could cause serious liver and stomach problems, prosecutors said.
Sales representatives also were trained to tell doctors and patients that Juxtapid would take patients out of harms way and prevent impending heart attacks and strokes, despite the lack of data supporting those claims, prosecutors alleged.
Numerous patients discontinued using Juxtapid after suffering conditions including liver toxicity and gastrointestinal distress, prosecutors said.
The Justice Department said Aegerions promotion of Juxtapid for patients without the genetic condition also led to false claims for payment to be submitted to government health care programs including Medicare.
Aegerion put profits over patient safety and enriched itself at taxpayer expense, Acting U.S. Attorney William Weinreb in Boston said in a statement.
The SEC alleged Aegerion also misled investors by exaggerating how many new patients filled prescriptions for Juxtapid.
The Justice Department said three ex-Aegerion employees who brought a whistleblower lawsuit against the company will receive $4.7 million as part of its civil settlement.
(Reuters) - (The Sept. 22 story has been corrected to remove the reference to Humira being a Jak-inhibitor in the final paragraph.
Humira is a TNF-inhibitor.)
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has declined to approve Johnson & Johnsons rheumatoid arthritis drug sirukumab, saying additional clinical data is needed to further evaluate its safety, the company said on Friday.
The FDAs decision is in keeping with an advisory panels recommendation in August that the FDA reject the drug.
Panelists were concerned about an imbalance in the number of deaths in patients taking sirukumab compared with those taking a placebo.
The most common causes of death were major heart problems, infection and malignancies.
We are disappointed by this development as we feel the data accumulated to date support the efficacy and safety of sirukumab, He added that the company is seeking to gain a full understanding of FDA requirements for U.S. approval and plans to have a follow-up discussion with the agency.
Sirukumab blocks a cytokine in the body known as interleukin 6 that can contribute to the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis, an autoimmune disorder that affects more than 23 million people worldwide.
Other drugs in the same class include Roche Holding AGs Actemra and Sanofi SA and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Incs Kevzara.
Analysts on average had expected sirukumab, which would be known as Plivensia if ultimately approved, to generate annual global sales of $426 million by 2020.
J&J originally developed sirukumab with GlaxoSmithKline Plc but GSK recently said it would end the program and return all rights to J&J.
GSK had rights to the drug in North, Central and South America.
In April the FDA declined to approve a rheumatoid arthritis drug made by Eli Lilly and Co and partner Incyte Corp, saying additional clinical data was needed to determine the most appropriate doses of the drug, baricitinib, and to further characterize safety concerns.
Baricitinib belongs to a class of drugs known as Jak inhibitors that include Pfizer Incs Xeljanz.
Since July, the 33-year-old mother of a severely disabled boy has been trying to meet with her senator, Bill Cassidy, R-Louisiana.
This year, she and other mothers of children with disabilities took a bus from Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to Washington to speak with their congressional representatives.
She failed to meet with elected officials at the time.
Now, she feels even greater urgency to meet with Cassidy, who is a physician.
Michot's 5-year-old son, Gabriel, was born 13 weeks early, and while the Michots have private insurance, Gabriel's medical bills are so high that they also get help from Medicaid.
The Graham-Cassidy bill , the GOP's latest effort to repeal Obamacare, which the Louisiana lawmaker co-sponsored, calls for dramatic cuts in Medicaid.
On Thursday, Michot and others met with a Cassidy staff member at his Baton Rouge office.
She says she left the meeting dissatisfied.
"We shouldn't have to fight politicians for survival," Michot said.
"We should only have to fight for our kids to survive medically and be healthy."
Ty Bofferding, Cassidy's spokesman, told CNN that the new health care bill "upholds our commitment to take care of our most vulnerable by putting Medicaid back on a sustainable, long-term path."
He added that the bill ensures "that those with pre-existing conditions will have access to both adequate and affordable health insurance coverage."
'No protection'

The preterm births of Gabriel and his twin brother, Michael, caused complex health conditions for both children, including bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
This chronic lung disease makes it hard to breathe.
Michael died of the condition around age 1, while Gabriel lives with a tube, called a trach, surgically placed in the front of his neck to help him breathe.
Medicaid pays for the ventilator Gabe needs to assist him.
Medicaid also pays for nurses to come to the house.
"He receives 12 hours a day, seven days a week of home health nursing," said Michot, a resident of Laplace, Louisiana.
"He currently has two support workers.
They do tasks from bathing to keeping him occupied so I can clean the house, wash dishes, spend time with my daughter."
The proposed health care legislation has Michot worried.
"Everything we're reading about this bill says that it's going to cut the federal funding," she said.
She fears that less federal funding would ultimately mean fewer services for children with disabilities.
Graham-Cassidy would reduce funding for Medicaid through a per-capita cap, according to Diane Rowland, executive vice president of Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit focused on national health issues.
The legislation would send the states a fixed amount of money per Medicaid enrollee, known as a per-capita cap, starting in 2020.
Although the law would protect some disability programs, Medicaid spending for disabled children who are covered through waivers is subject to the caps, Rowland wrote in an email.
Gabe, Michot said, "wouldn't survive the per-capita caps: That's one surgery, and it's gone.
He would meet that cap."
Over time, Rowland wrote, the Graham-Cassidy bill will reduce federal funding for Medicaid and leave states to make the decision on what to cut as they try to balance their budgets.
"There is no protection on where the state will have to turn to cut dollars," Rowland wrote.
"So essentially, this provision doesn't protect disabled children from having their coverage, benefits, or services reduced or eliminated."
Michot told the health care staffer that "y'all know" the only two items the state will consider cutting will be education and health care.
"Unfortunately, many, many people are pro-education," Michot said.
"And many, many people think that people on Medicaid mooch off the state: They just take services, but they don't give back."
'Our lives would be devastated'

Last year, Michot and Angla Lorio, another mother of a disabled child, co-founded the Trach Mommas of Louisiana , a peer support organization for parents of children with tracheostomy.
As a member of Louisiana's Emergency Management Disability Aging Coalition, the group recently participated in relief efforts for the victims of natural disasters.
"We served a lot of people during the great flood last year, and then we reached out to Texas (this year)," Michot proudly told the staffer.
She said she would not have been able to do that without Medicaid.
"The staff that Gabriel has provided for him through Medicaid allows him to not only live but to thrive," she said.
"It allows him to function at the best level possible and to have some normalcy despite his medical complexities.
"If home health care was taken away, our life would be devastated."
In July, Michot and other parents of children with disabilities chartered a bus in Baton Rouge and headed to Washington to protest proposed cuts to Medicaid.
Despite their best efforts, the families were unable to meet with their elected officials.
Because the health care bill under review at that time did not pass, no budget cuts were made.
Though relieved, Michot and others felt and continue to feel nervous about what's to come.
Bofferding said Cassidy's staffers "have met with Ms. Michot and members of her organization on multiple occasions in both Louisiana and Washington, D.C."

"The bus trip, the long-term advocacy -- it's all worth it because it's my son's life," Michot said.
"It's the lives of his friends; it's the lives of my peers.
It's the lives of our friends.
You can't put a price tag on that, so it is worth it."
Still, she admits feeling "disappointed" in the meeting with Cassidy's staffer.
"We wanted to know some more specifics on the per-capita caps, on pre-existing conditions , because that's something Sen. Cassidy committed to, and that's something he seemed to like from the Affordable Care Act," Michot said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Since Michot cannot afford to care for her son without Medicaid, the Graham-Cassidy bill could take away his ability to live, she said, and she's not speaking "dramatically."
"It would either be foster care or institutionalization or death," Michot said.
"We live with life and death."
"I'm very upset with Sen. Cassidy as a physician," she said.
"He should know better."
Speaking for the other families in Trach Mommas, Michot said, "We want to keep our kids alive.
We want to keep our kids thriving through occupational therapy, physical therapy, speech therapy.
"We want them to be productive members of society, but most of all, we want them to live."
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) By the numbers, it looks like Americans are one unhealthy nation and could therefore have a lot to lose, depending on how the health care debate concludes.
Before the Affordable Care Act, Americans could be denied health insurance if they had one of several of common health conditions like diabetes, asthma and even acne.
Obamacare generally stopped that practice.
The law, in most cases, made it illegal for insurers to deny coverage or to charge people more because they'd been sick.
It also put an end to most of the lifetime and annual benefit payment caps carried by some insurance policies, even the typically more generous employer-provided ones.
The debate about repealing Obamacare is ongoing, which means it is unclear what a final replacement law would look like.
The latest Graham-Cassidy bill would eliminate federal funding for the Medicaid expansion.
It would remove the subsidies that lower premiums for people on Obamacare and eliminate subsidies that help with deductibles and co-pays.
The last bill to make it through the House would leave 23 million uninsured by 2026, compared with who gets coverage under the current law, according to a Congressional Budget Office analysis .
Polls show that this news worries many Americans, particularly the half who have had a condition once considered pre-existing.
But who are these people who live with these pre-existing conditions?
Have they failed to "lead good lives," as Alabama Republican Rep. Mo Brooks said in May of healthy people, who he believes should pay less for coverage?
Will they really be able to buy a policy as Republicans are promising, or will the costs make coverage prohibitive?
CNN analyzed the top 10 most common conditions for Americans.
People with these conditions come from all walks of life, but they each must cope with the illness they have or once had.
Acne

Eric Brod may be a confident professional in the world of finance today, but when he was a freshman in high school, something made him self-conscious.
Like a lot of high school freshmen, he had acne.
"I was probably more aware of it than my peers," Brod said.
"I was definitely thinking about it."
Acne happens when a pore in your skin gets clogged.
Your body is constantly shedding dead skin cells.
Sometimes, it over-produces the oil needed to keep your skin from drying out, and when that happens, dead cells can stick together and clog your pores.
The bacteria that naturally live on your skin can also get caught in your pores and cause your skin to get inflamed and red.
When the bacteria get deep into your skin, they can create an acne cyst.
Acne can appear on your face, your back, your chest -- essentially anywhere on your skin.
When your hormones are out of whack with puberty, it increases your chance of having acne, but adults can get it, too.
Prior to Obamacare, insurance companies could turn down your request for a policy or charge you more if you had this condition, even if you had it under control.
In Brod's case, his acne wasn't too bad, but it was persistent, and he said it wasn't being contained with the usual antibiotics or topical medications he tried throughout his high school years.
"I was self-conscious about it and would nervously pick at it if it lingered," Brod said.
Running track and cross-country kept him fit, but it did not help his skin.
He'd break out if practice was held on cold or hot days, and the sweat and dust didn't help.
He had breakouts throughout his high school years, but the summer before freshman year of college, he had a breakthrough.
His father, a dermatologist, recommended a different treatment to get it under control once and for all.
"I felt really lucky because, living with my dad, he saw how it looked from day to day and had an idea about what would help," Brod said.
Brod got a prescription for isotretinoin.
It was a form of vitamin A that reduced the amount of oil released in the skin and helped the skin recover quickly.
For Brod, it did the trick.
He didn't have any side effects, and the help came just in time.
"When you are going to college and you don't know anyone, you do want to look your best," Brod said.
"Acne is more than a cosmetic concern, though.
I knew it could lead to permanent scarring.
And while this was a relatively mild case, I didn't want that and was glad we found something that worked."
Anxiety

Kat Kinsman has what she calls a kind of "autoimmune disease of the soul."
She struggles with anxiety and "came out" about it in a first-person story on CNN in 2014.
She said it "freed me in so many ways that I felt really lucky that I had an employer and a husband who supported me through this and it didn't blow back on me."
More than 39 million American adults struggle with anxiety.
It's the second-most common pre-existing condition in the country, according to a 2005 study.
Kinsman now works as a senior food and drinks editor at Time Inc.'s all-breakfast site Extra Crispy, and she is the author of the book "Hi, Anxiety: Life with a Bad Case of Nerves," published in November.
However, it is something Kinsman has struggled with since kindergarten, long before she had words to describe it.
In fact, when her parents first noticed something was wrong, they took her to a doctor, who tested her for such conditions as cancer and mono.
It got so bad that she missed a part of her freshman year of high school.
"Your parents can love you and take care of you the best they can," Kinsman said.
"Anxiety is not necessarily something that first comes to mind when you are looking at what is wrong."
When doctors did finally figure it out, her parents found Kinsman the counseling she needed.
"At an early age of 13 or 14, I was given this gift of openness," she said.
"Talking about my anxiety saved my life."
Though medication was not for her, she said therapy helps.
She sees a nutritionist.
She does a lot of deep breathing.
Kinsman is not cured, but she's better at managing it.
"I have almost 45 years of practice," she said.
"People tell me I have a real good poker face."
However, when her close friends suspect something is up, they ask to see her thumbs.
She admits to a bad habit of picking at them when her anxiety is triggered.
"I have sometimes picked them raw," she said.
Her anxiety can manifest itself in other physical ways.
It makes her heart pound, her body tense; it can make her sick to her stomach.
"My body can decide to be a real jackass," she said.
She also gets restless and cannot sleep, and then a lack of sleep exacerbates her anxiety.
Not telling people about it also compounded the problem.
"You find it so exhausting to put on your normal person suit every day and go out," Kinsman said.
"You don't want people worried about you, and you get afraid of being thought of as crazy, or you are worried you would lose your job."
Over the years, it has clouded her judgment, and before she talked about it, it hurt some of her relationships.
A few boyfriends never understood, an employer told her not to talk about it at the office, and some friends thought she was blowing them off when she really stayed home because something had triggered her anxiety.
When she finally could talk about her anxiety, life got better.
She learned that she wasn't alone.
After her essay ran, friends and even strangers would tell her about the mental illness in their own lives or within their own families.
"It was an extraordinary time," Kinsman said.
"It's like when you look out at a meadow and you see that first firefly, and then another lights up in response and then another and another, and finally the whole meadow looks like it is on fire.
People started talking to me about their own struggles, and it made me feel less of a freak and opened up the possibility for conversation."
She hopes her talking about it can help end the stigma of mental illness.
"Too many people are self-medicating or even dying because they can't talk about it," she said.
She volunteers in the community and got certified to work on a crisis line.
"I am well aware that I am in an incredible place of luxury to work where I do and to be so open and supported," she said.
"I feel like I can take this hit, and my goal is to make it easier for someone who, for whatever reason, cannot get help."
Diabetes

Peter Richardson, an avid biker in Spokane, Washington, said he nearly jumped into a river when the test strips used to monitor his diabetes fell out of his pocket and into the water.
"I was on a 30-mile bike ride, and about 30 dropped in.
It was awful," Richardson said.
Richardson is fit, but he's a self-employed real estate broker who buys his own insurance, and his policy has its limits.
When he went to the pharmacy to get more test strips, the pharmacist said Richardson would either have to wait four days for his insurance autorenewal to kick in or need to pay the full retail price.
Unable to manage his disease without test strips, he paid.
It cost him $338.
"Luckily, I can afford it, but it could easily have been a whole different scenario," Richardson said.
"I've got a 3-year-old daughter and a wife who stays up late at night worrying about our finances.
I was blown away when the pharmacy called."
Richardson couldn't believe insurance couldn't cover something he regularly uses to manage his care.
Richardson is one of 30.3 million people with diabetes , according to the latest numbers from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
It's a pre-existing condition that left people uninsured prior to Obamacare.
Luckily for Richardson, he had coverage when he was diagnosed, but his insurance didn't cover much.
He had what was known as a catastrophic policy that had high deductibles and limited benefits.
His first vial of insulin cost almost $500.
"When they told me that at the pharmacy, I nearly walked out without filling it," Richardson said.
But diabetics need insulin to live.
With type 1 diabetes, the pancreases doesn't create much, if any, insulin.
Your body needs insulin to balance the glucose in your bloodstream.
Glucose is what your body uses for energy.
If your blood sugar is too high, it can lead to blindness or kidney or nerve damage.
If your blood sugar gets too low, you could faint or even slip into a coma.
Fortunately, Richardson found a medical study to volunteer for that gave him insulin for free.
That held him over until he could get better insurance.
"That really scared me," he said.
His policy is generally better now, but he can afford it.
Business is doing well now.
That could change if there's another downturn in the real estate market or interest rates go up.
That's why he's watched the health care debate with trepidation.
"That's what keeps me up at night, because you can't control what they are going to decide, and some of what they are considering, especially for someone like me with diabetes, is scary."
Though he wants to stay an independent business owner, he's been tempted to take jobs that provide benefits.
"If I don't have a sale, that may be what I'm faced with if they don't provide coverage for people like me on the marketplace.
What are you going to do?"
he asked.
In the meantime, he will continue to watch what he eats.
He'll keep biking to stay fit, and he'll monitor his health with modern tools like a program called One Drop that gives him more up-to-date data about his daily health .
Richardson hopes lawmakers will listen to the diabetic community.
"Talk to the kids at the diabetic camps.
Go talk to a group of people living with the condition to give you a real-life perspective," he said.
He hopes that motivates Congress to make the system better.
"It has to get better."
Asthma

When Cathy Stephens completed her first triathlon, she proudly held up a sign that said "Dear asthma, I win."
The endurance athlete who thinks nothing of a 100-mile bike ride has such bad asthma, there are days when she cannot breathe enough to speak and she can forget about walking across the college campus where she works.
People with asthma have inflamed airways.
Your lungs use airways to bring oxygen into and out of your body.
When someone experiences asthma symptoms, the muscles around these airways tighten and narrow, making it hard to breathe.
The cells that create mucus can also overproduce it, causing the airways to tighten more.
This happens when an asthmatic encounters something that triggers an attack.
It could be something they are allergic to -- In Stephens' case, it's mold and dust -- or it could be a virus.
"When people are sick around me, I run screaming the other way," she joked.
Sometimes, asthma symptoms can be mild and make a person wheeze or cough.
Sometimes, attacks can kill.
Stephens is one of 25.2 million asthmatics in the United States, according 2015 numbers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Stephens said she wasn't breathing when she was born, and doctors had to revive her.
And asthma has troubled Stephens all her life.
She's the only one of her siblings to have it.
"I tell them I took one for the team," she said.
Her mom also had asthma and died of related complications in August 2016.
Despite having to raise five children by herself in small-town Idaho, Stephens said, her mother was the "real hero" who would get her through her attacks.
She'd put her daughter in a hot shower so the steam could open her airways.
She'd pin a towel with ice around her throat.
Sometimes, she'd even sit up all night with her daughter, holding her upright.
"I have vivid memories of my mom in that rocking chair, holding me up when I was too little to prop myself up, since you can't lay down when your asthma is bad like that," Stephens said.
Doctors also put Stephens on massive doses of prednisone, which worked but packed on the pounds.
"I was always the girl with the note for PE saying I couldn't run, but if you looked at me, I looked fine, so I would always have to fight off that stigma that I was lazy or something," she said.
As an adult, she feels like she has a good handle on her disease.
She avoids her triggers.
She watches her diet and has eliminated foods that cause inflammation.
She exercises, since excess pounds can exacerbate asthma symptoms.
It's paid off.
She hasn't been hospitalized in 20 years.
She still needs to see the doctor regularly to get prescriptions for her rescue inhalers, and she's got a nebulizer to use if her symptoms are bad.
"Sometimes I'll have to bring it to work," said Stephens, who certifies teachers and principals and helps them find jobs.
"When I have to do, that I'll just close my door, and if someone comes in when I'm on what I call my peace pipe, no one seems to mind."
She feels fortunate to have good insurance through her work, but she didn't always.
When she was waitressing to put herself through college, those jobs didn't always come with benefits.
Even when they did, prior to Obamacare, sometimes insurance wasn't an option.
Companies could turn her down because of her pre-existing condition, or they would make her wait a certain amount of time before they'd cover her care.
That meant she'd often put off going to the doctor or getting prescriptions filled even though she'd need to.
"I muddled my way through and mostly was lucky, but there were times when a trip to the hospital was devastating to my budget," she said.
Even now, with good insurance, her $2,000 deductible prompts her to use her inhaler -- an Advair bronchodilator -- sparingly.
She's been OK, but it's not ideal.
with the current health care bill.
"It was scary when I'd have to make a choice between paying for college and paying for insurance," Stephens said.
"What bothers me about the current debate is that they talk about those of us with pre-existing conditions as being the sickest, but other than that one thing, I am much healthier than most."
She said she'd love to take a long bike ride with She hopes Congress doesn't decide to "take 10 steps back to the past," when coverage was not as affordable as it iswith the current health care bill.
"It was scary when I'd have to make a choice between paying for college and paying for insurance," Stephens said.
"What bothers me about the current debate is that they talk about those of us with pre-existing conditions as being the sickest, but other than that one thing, I am much healthier than most."
She said she'd love to take a long bike ride with any legislator who says people don't die from a lack of insurance and see whether they see can keep up.
"They need to stop beating people up for having an illness," Stephens said.
"They should instead see what we can do when we have an environment in which we can stay healthy and live up to our full potential."
Sleep apnea

Wendy Solon always described herself as an "active sleeper."
It never woke her up, nor did she remember any of it, but her husband told her that she'd toss and turn and snore.
As she got older, her snoring got louder.
She felt fine but remembered vivid dreams.
After her husband continued to have problems sleeping, she talked to her doctor and asked for a recommendation to see a sleep specialist.
"I went because I thought it would help me sleep calmer and I wouldn't be bothering my husband as much," said Solon, 47.
She went to Emory University's sleep clinic, where doctors "basically asked me a million questions" and suggested an overnight sleep study.
When she went in, they hooked her up to a bunch of sensors on her legs and arms, and then she went to sleep.
"I woke up, and I remember thinking, 'Well, that's not going to be a very interesting sleep study.
I think I got a very good night's sleep,' and I thought for sure the doctor would tell me that he didn't find anything," she said.
an "astronomical number of times," she said.
The doctor recommended that she get a continuous positive airway pressure machine, or CPAP machine, to help her breathe.
He diagnosed her with Instead, her doctor told Solon that she wokean "astronomical number of times," she said.
The doctor recommended that she get a continuous positive airway pressure machine, or CPAP machine, to help her breathe.
He diagnosed her with sleep apnea

"I had no idea I had sleep apnea," she said.
"I wouldn't have guessed that, ever."
More than 25 million American adults have sleep apnea, according to the Sleep Foundation .
People with the condition pause when they breathe in their sleep.
The pauses can last for seconds or minutes and may happen as many as 30 times an hour.
People with sleep apnea don't often breathe deeply when they sleep.
Because they stop breathing, they go in and out of deep sleep, and that can leave them feeling tired during the day.
It can have serious health consequences such as high blood pressure, stroke, obesity, diabetes and heart problems.
It can cause accidents at work.
It's the No.
1 cause of sleepiness during the day, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Solon feels like using a CPAP machine is a bit like needing braces: "medically necessary but not a big deal."
She said she doesn't feel any more rested yet, but it helps.
The CPAP machine gives her a constant stream of air pressure so her throat and airways don't constrict and she keeps breathing during sleep.
Insurance, which she gets through her husband's company, covers the machine.
"We were blessed that we have the insurance we do, but we know we are lucky," she said.
She hopes Congress will continue to help people like her with pre-existing conditions.
"For me, the sleep apnea is not a big thing compared to the other health issues in my life, but treatment does matter.
It's not like these medical situations are your fault, and they should never every be treated that way."
Depression

The health care debate drove Mike Babb to write a highly public letter about a deeply personal issue.
"For me keeping Obamacare is a matter of life or death," the father of two wrote in his local newspaper in Pennsylvania..

To Babb, this isn't merely rhetoric.
He is one of more than 20.8 million American adults who struggle with major depressive disorder.
"I was constantly overwhelmed with suicidal thoughts," he said.
"When you have really bad depression, this is not laziness.
This is not something easy to get over.
You learn you have it, and it gets even worse, because you beat yourself up for having it."
Depression is a mental health disorder in which people have a constant feeling of despondency.
It can cause them to lose interest in everyday activities and make them feel bad about themselves and others.
It's an intense sadness and feeling of hopelessness that, if not treated, can lead people to suicide.
Doctors put Babb on nearly every medication available, but none seemed to work.
They then suggested a treatment that sounded more radical: electroconvulsive therapy.
Once a month, he would go under general anesthesia, and doctors would send small electric currents through his brain.
The currents trigger a brief seizure, changing his brain chemistry.
The treatment, he said, saved his life.
"This really took a cross off my back," he said.
"It was amazing to find something that worked."
In addition to the electroconvulsive therapy, he sees a therapist weekly.
He also sees an additional psychiatrist and takes three drugs.
He pays about $675 a month for COBRA -- employer-based insurance for people who lose or leave their jobs -- plus at least $1,500 a year with various co-pays.
It's expensive, especially since he had to quit his teaching job due to his depression, but even when he got insurance through work, it was limited.
When he started teaching chemistry 22 years ago, he noticed that his policy carried a $50,000 lifetime cap on mental health care.
Quickly, he could have surpassed that and would have had to pay for his treatment out of his savings, he said.
"Obamacare changed that," Babb said.
"Parity of service means they can't exclude you because you suffer from something that is something mental, not physical.
That has been a lifesaver for me."
He said Obamacare gave him his life back.
Though he can't work, he still feels he has something to offer his community in Fleetwood, Pennsylvania.
He's a regular volunteer, driving for the blind, and he stays active with his hometown Lions Club.
He's there for his teenage sons.
And he promises to continue speaking up to urge congress to keep Obamacare, rather than merely repeal it.
As someone who is about to get coverage through Medicaid, he worries about those proposed cuts.
"I remain very concerned with what's going on," he said.
"I know when to speak up when stuff seems rotten.
I can't believe these politicians would take hundreds of millions out of health care for people who really need it to give tax cuts to the rich.
I hope they come to their senses soon."
COPD

In 2001, when Karen Deitemeyer was 55, she started having trouble walking up the stairs.
She had been a smoker, but with the help of two visits to a psychologist who used hypnotherapy, she had kicked the habit about a decade before.
Initially, she chalked it up to aging.
"I was a little overweight at the time, and while I exercise, I probably don't exercise nearly as much as I should," she thought, but the problem continued.
She went to see her primary care doctor, who sent her to a pulmonologist.
Tests showed that it wasn't normal aging.
She had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, known as COPD.
It's an umbrella term used to describe lung diseases that block airflow and make it difficult to breathe.
More than 15.7 million Americans have it, according to a clinical review from 2013 .
Though many with COPD smoked at one point in their lives, it can also be genetic, and it can be caused by a person's environment.
By the time she was diagnosed with COPD , it was considered severe, she said.
"It comes on gradually.
It's not like one day you are fine and the next you can't do anything," she said.
Despite the severity, Deitemeyer continued to work.
She had a decent job with good insurance with the Oceolo County tax collector's office.
"I was determined to make it work and just brought my oxygen tanks to the office," she said.
She went to pulmonary rehabilitation and lost weight.
Both helped her breathe better.
She retired when she turned 62.
"Then I finally thought it was time," but she stays active.
The 55-and-older community where she lives with her husband has an activity every day, she said.
"You would not believe the calendar here.
There is so much going on," she said.
She also travels the country raising awareness about COPD.
Now, 16 years after her diagnosis, she uses a stationary oxygen tank when she sleeps and a portable oxygen concentrator when she exercises or travels, but "otherwise, I don't have to drag it around with me, so I'm fortunate in that sense," she said.
Though she is old enough to be covered my Medicare, she is 71, she knows others with COPD who are not so lucky and she follows the health care debate closely and worries for others with pre-existing conditions.
"Who exactly is exempt from that.
I mean, If you think about it, essentially life is a pre-existing condition."
Extreme obesity

Akilah Monifa Monifa had worked as the director of communications and public affairs for the San Francisco CBS affiliate for nearly 14 years but wanted to be an entrepreneur so she could make sure more voices were heard, and down the road, she hoped to employ others.
severance and unemployment checks to co-found She usedseverance and unemployment checks to co-found Arise 2.0 in November.
It's a multimedia publication by LGBTQ people of color created to fill a gap in coverage of that community.
She's excited about it, but this busy Oakland mother is uncertain about her future.
"As I've been doing this, I've noticed most people who create online publications keep their day job for at least a couple of years, particularly when they have families," Monifa said.
"My big concern is health insurance."
Monifa is covered through COBRA -- employer-based insurance for people who lose or leave their jobs -- but she'll have to buy her own plan soon.
That's got her watching the health care debate with concern.
"It is something I worry about, because with the reality of this new law and what it might do with pre-existing conditions, I may not be able to afford what I need to stay healthy," she said.
"And I certainly can't afford to go without."
Monifa has had three of the most common pre-existing conditions.
She had sleep apnea and for decades had to use a CPAP machine to help her breathe as she slept.
Asthma slowed her down when she walked, and both were exacerbated by her weight.
Like more than 18.5 million American adults , she struggled with extreme obesity and has been doing everything she can to fight it.
Starting around age 15, she'd gain about 10 to 15 pounds a year.
"I wasn't mindful about what I ate," she said, and it became a problem.
At her greatest weight, her 5'11" frame carried more than 400 pounds.
Over the years, she tried to lose it.
"I tried everything that I could, but I would lose 75 and then gain 100, and my weight would yo-yo back and forth, and it caused serious health problems," she said.
In addition to the asthma and sleep apnea, she had borderline high blood pressure.
Her knees and back hurt.
"I knew my overall life expectancy was not great," she said

In 2012, she elected to have gastric bypass surgery.
She weighed 330 pounds at the time.
She made several life changes, joining group therapy and signing up for two gyms, where she continues to exercise daily.
She plans meals ahead, and instead of meeting friends for dinner, they go for walks.
The effort paid off.
She lost more than 222 pounds and feels great.
She doesn't even need her CPAP machine any more, and her asthma doesn't bother her.
But the fight isn't over.
She'll need regular checkups so doctors can monitor her health and nutrition intake because she physically can't eat as much now.
She'll also continue to see a counselor to manage the emotional side of her eating, and she'll stay devoted to exercise.
Even with an ankle cast for a recent injury, she is signing up for races.
She recently got a medal for walking the Bay to Breakers event.
"I only walked 4 miles because the ankle was bothering me, but I was determined to do it," she said.
"You don't lose hundreds of pounds and give up."
Atherosclerosis

Mika Leah did everything she could to have a healthy heart, but it didn't work, which is why she's concerned about the possibility that insurance guarantees for those with pre-existing conditions may be dropped if Obamacare is replaced.
She's been eating a healthy diet all her life.
She developed a taste for healthy fare after her mom removed sugar and salt from the family meals when Leah's father had his first heart attack at age 32.
She'd been playing soccer since she was 5.
She exercises about four to five times a week and enjoyed the gym so much, she started teaching a cycling class for fun.
But when she started having trouble running, she wondered whether something was wrong.
She had run a half-marathon fine, but when she started running short distances, she felt "horrible."
"I was extremely breathless, and when I came home, I threw up," she said.
At first, she thought she'd push through.
But when her breathing didn't get easier and she started getting headaches, she went to the doctor, who chalked it up to stress.
When the doctor summed up her life -- she had an intense job and two children under the age of 2 and was going through a divorce -- she replied, "Well, when you put it that way, I guess I am."
So she kept exercising, but the symptoms got worse.
The doctors continued to tell her it was stress.
An EKG didn't show any problems.
It wasn't until her 33rd birthday that they realized something else was wrong.
She and a friend went on a hike that was supposed to be easy.
Leah had completed it without trouble when she was nine months pregnant.
But on the first mile, she had to sit down not once but twice, and she couldn't catch her breath.
"It felt like a 200-pound man was standing on my chest," she said.
She looked at her hiking partner, who she says could stand to lose a good 80 pounds and was a pack-a-day smoker, and realized he hadn't broken a sweat.
"I knew something was really wrong with me, and I was terrified," she said.
She went to the cardiologist who had looked at her EKG.
He too thought it was stress, but she refused to accept that answer.
She demanded a stress test.
A couple weeks later, doctors put her on a treadmill to run.
She stepped off, and a doctor came in to tell her she needed surgery right away, she said: Her left artery was 98% blocked.
The blockage was extremely close to her heart.
She's since had three procedures and five stents put in her heart.
or clogged arteries, which can lead to heart problems, are one of the top 10 most common health conditions for Americans.
About 16 million American adults struggle with it, according to a Heart disease is the No.
1 killer of women, and atherosclerosis,or clogged arteries, which can lead to heart problemsare one of the top 10 most common health conditions for Americans.
About 16 million American adults struggle with it, according to a 2008 study

As she recovered, Leah became reflective and decided the job that brought her true joy, her cycling class, was what she wanted to do full-time.
She founded Goomi , a wellness company that brings fitness and cooking and meditation classes to workplaces and schools across the country.
Goomi means rubber band in Hebrew and is meant to symbolize bouncing back and flexibility.
Leah said she is deeply concerned about insurance and tries not to get political, but as a new business owner, she watches the health care debate closely and remains concerned about the cost of care.
She hopes her company and her volunteer work for the American Heart Association will help keep people healthy and especially empower patients.
Though she knows it may sound cheesy, she hopes someday, it will save lives.
"Had I not spoken up, I could easily have been one of those athletes that goes for a run and drops dead because of my heart," she said.
"It makes a difference if you speak up on behalf of your health."
Cancer

Lori Dorn, a writer for Laughing Squid , an online site that covers arts, culture and technology, said she's become a kind of "medical sherpa" over the years, trying to help friends and acquaintances navigate the medical system when they are diagnosed with cancer.
"I tell friends, if you or someone you know who has been diagnosed with cancer and need someone to talk to or to get you through that void and darkness or someone who can help you navigate the health care system, I am there for you," Dorn said.
That's because she has been there, too.
Diagnosed with breast cancer in 2011, she meets the five-year definition of cancer-free but still goes in every three months for a checkup, and she's still on medication.
When she was diagnosed with cancer, she had surgery, chemotherapy and radiation and got through it without too much trouble.
"I've been told I'm a tough cookie," she said.
She also has another condition: asthma.
Her asthma symptoms were much worse when she was living in San Francisco, where there were a lot of old buildings with mold and dust, to which she is highly allergic, she says.
"Thankfully, I haven't had a serious attack in eight or nine years," although she uses a rescue inhaler if needed but hasn't been to the hospital in years.
Still, the medication for both are expensive.
She is on her husband's insurance, but without it, she says, the drugs would cost her about $20,000 a month.
"It's expensive without it, or what would happen if I was unemployed, which has happened in the past?
I don't know what I would do," she said.
"I can't go without them, but you see where people can't afford their medication and have to go without.
Politicians keep saying people can have their choice with health care reform, but when health care is too expensive, there are not great options in the market.
That is not a choice."
Dorn is particularly concerned that annual or lifetime limit caps could come back.
She said her treatments could have easily put her over those limits.
Dorn also has questions for politicians and insurance companies that talk about pre-existing conditions as if they were something they brought on themselves.
She has a gene that makes her predisposed to breast cancer.
"A lot of people like myself with the genetic marker," Dorn said.
"We were born with this.
Does this mean I've always had a pre-existing condition?
Does this mean that they want to punish people for being born with a proclivity toward a pre-existing condition?
Legislation like this seems very cruel."
As Congress debates a new health care bill, Dr. Sanjay Gupta asks: Why is health care in the United States so expensive in the first place?
Source: CNN
I am an Eeyore; I know this.
I'm a glass-half-empty, worst-case-scenario, dwell-on-the-imperfections, existential-dread ruminating worrywart, and I envy the people I encounter who seem to effortlessly exude perkiness and fun.
That's not to say there's no joy in my life; it just doesn't come as naturally to me as it appears to for others.
And yet despite fully meeting the textbook definition of "the opposite of an optimist," I've never thought to label myself a pessimist.
In large part, that's because of the baggage associated with the term.
In America, the tyranny of positivity reigns supreme, so much so that I often find myself worrying about how much I worry.
I worry about my gloomy outlook because of how strongly our culture emphasizes the value of a positive one.
And I worry about the ways that all my worrying could potentially affect my health and the health of those around me.
pessimism kills.
Just a few months ago, the New York Times declared that "studies have shown an indisputable link between having a positive outlook and health benefits like lower blood pressure, less heart disease, better weight control and healthier blood sugar levels."
Plenty of news articles present similar ideas in a stark black-and-white fashion: optimists live longer

But some research suggests that things aren't so simple.
In 2016, for example, a study of more than 700,000 British women failed to find a link between happiness and longevity.
Which raises the question: What makes this particular group of study participants any different?
Could it be that culture plays a role -- that British people, overall, are just more tolerant and accepting of gloominess?
Now, new research seems to show that cultural perceptions of mental states may indeed mediate their physical effect.
In a study published last month in the journal Psychological Science, a team of psychologists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison reported that positivity was related to improved health markers in Americans, but not in Japanese people.
The study authors analyzed health data from 1,017 American and 374 Japanese people, taken from the Midlife in the United States and Midlife in Japan studies, both funded by the National Institute on Aging.
Participants reported how frequently they had felt ten different positive emotions in the previous 30 days, and blood samples were taken to measure lipid levels, an indicator of heart health.
Even after accounting for things like a person's age, gender, socioeconomic status, and chronic health conditions, there was a significant difference between the two groups: "American adults who experience high levels of positive emotions, such as feeling 'cheerful' and 'extremely happy,' are more likely to have healthy blood-lipid profiles," explains lead study author Jiah Yoo, but the same was not true among Japanese adults.
The discrepancy, she adds, "suggests that health implications of positive emotions may not be completely driven by the inherent nature of positive emotions, but also shaped by American cultural context."
"In American cultures, experiencing positive emotions is seen as desirable and is even encouraged via socialization," Yoo explains.
"But in East Asian cultures, people commonly view positive emotions as having dark sides -- they are fleeting, may attract unnecessary attention from others, and can be a distraction from focusing on important tasks."
Past research has reached similar conclusions.
In a 2015 Stanford study of 690 Chinese and American participants, for example, the Americans generally sought to maximize positive feelings and minimize negative ones, while the Chinese subjects were more likely to report that they commonly felt mixed emotions.
The study authors argued that the results had to do with differing ideas about the importance of the individual: The individualistic American culture places more emphasis on people doing what's best for themselves, while more collectivist East Asian cultures prioritize doing what's best for the group.
Yoo believes the cultural influence on the positivity-health connection may be the result of culturally specific health behaviors.
"Frequent experience of positive affect in the Western context would be aligned with prescribed values and beliefs, and thus likely motivate engagement in and pursuit of healthy behaviors," she explains.
"In contrast, positive affect aligns less with norms and beliefs about positive affect in the East Asian context, and thus may not be associated with healthy behaviors."
In other words, it may be possible that positive thinking only improves our health because we're conditioned to believe that it's the optimal state -- that emotions and outlooks aren't actually as objectively good or bad as we've made them out to be.
After all, experiencing a full range of emotions is perfectly healthy, and a least one study has shown that there's a benefit to embracing your negative emotions .
Yoo says it's possible that Americans' mental and physical health could improve if we start viewing negativity as more acceptable.
But there are some caveats of the study.
One is that this study design can only show correlation, not causation.
Yoo says it also doesn't address the fact that "sometimes positive emotions may not be healthy, even in the U.S." Indeed, some research points to the damaging health effects of our relentless pursuit of positivity and happiness.
There's also the issue that what it means to be happy can vary by culture as well.
For example, "American conception of happiness emphasized on being upbeat, whereas the Chinese conception of happiness focused on being solemn and reserved.
This means that, in America, high-arousal positive emotional states are considered as happiness, a desirable state," psychotherapist Nangyeon Lim, a professor at South Korea's Kyungil University, explained in a 2016 article

"By contrast, low-arousal positive emotional states are considered as happiness in China."
High-arousal emotions are things like fear, anger, nervousness, irritation, astonishment, enthusiasm, delight, joy, or excitement; low-arousal emotions include feeling content, bored, relaxed, serene, sad, calm, sluggish, sleepy, satisfied, gloomy, pleased, or peaceful.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
It's not simply that Americans are more intent on seeking happiness, then -- there's also a high bar for how intense that happiness is supposed to feel.
"Westerners value high-arousal emotions more than Easterners, so they promote activities that elicit high-arousal emotions.," Lim noted.
"Even children of the West learn through storybooks that high-arousal emotions are ideal, and the opposite is true for children of the East."
It's comforting for me to hear that at least one culture may accept and embrace my gloominess -- that the disdain for people with my temperament isn't universal.
I may never be able to fully internalize the concept that it's okay to be sad, but I do know that I need to be gentler with myself, and to worry less when I don't meet my own, or society's, emotional expectations.
Maybe I don't need to shoot for delight.
Maybe contentment can feel just as good.
Story highlights Cheese contains important nutrients, but calories and sodium can add up

Experts suggest using it as a flavor enhancer rather than the focus of a meal

(CNN) Yes, cheese is nutrient-rich -- and tasty -- but it's best to consume it in small portions.
"Cheese does contain some important nutrients, including calcium and protein, along with vitamin B12 and zinc.
However, the calories can add up quickly if you aren't mindful," said Kelly Pritchett, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
Softer cheeses tend to have fewer calories than hard cheeses: an ounce of whole-milk ricotta (approximately 2 tablespoons) has about 50 calories, an ounce of feta has 75 calories, and an ounce of whole-milk mozzarella has 85 calories.
But an ounce of Swiss (one slice) has 108 calories, and an ounce of cheddar has 114 calories (picture about a one-inch cube, depending on the kind).
For the same calories, you can have a cup of black bean soup and probably feel just as full.
Cheese is also high in saturated fat, which is known to increase LDL cholesterol, the "bad" cholesterol.
In fact, cheese is one of the biggest sources of saturated fat in the US diet

Read More
Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't When it comes to fat and calories, some cheeses are lighter than others.
Experts recommend using it as a flavor enhancer rather than as the focus of a meal.
Hide Caption 1 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Granola contains healthy ingredients such as oats, nuts and dried fruit, and it can serve as a tasty topping to yogurt or cereal.
But since it can pack up to 600 calories per cup (thanks to sugar and other ingredient treats), it's important to sprinkle, not pour.
Hide Caption 2 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Ready-to-eat breakfast cereal can make for a convenient and healthy breakfast, especially if it's made with whole grains, is low in sugar and is served with fresh fruit and low-fat milk.
But sugary cereals that lack fiber and protein can cause a blood sugar spike and crash before lunchtime.
Hide Caption 3 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Order a California roll, and you'll get heart-healthy monounsaturated fats from avocado and zinc from crab, all for 255 calories.
But a crunchy shrimp tempura roll, which is battered and fried and often drizzled with spicy mayo, has about 200 more calories and three times the amount of fat.
Hide Caption 4 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Air-popped popcorn is a healthy, whole-grain, antioxidant-rich snack that's low in calories.
But movie theater popcorn, which is popped in coconut oil, is a diet disaster, contributing 1,200 calories and about three days worth of saturated fat for a medium bucket -- and that's without the buttery topping.
Hide Caption 5 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't A Greek yogurt with no added sugar makes for a filling protein- and calcium-rich snack.
But sweetened yogurts with flavorings or fruit purees have less protein and are more like dessert, with up to 8 teaspoons of sugar.
Hide Caption 6 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't Energy bars can be a wise choice for a snack or mini meal if they offer a healthy dose of protein and fiber, and are low in sugars and saturated fat.
But when they contain chocolate coatings or sugary syrups, they can pass for protein-fortified candy bars.
Hide Caption 7 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't A salad made with spinach, light tuna, veggies, feta and yogurt dressing can make for a low-calorie, nutrient-rich lunch.
But when your salad contains crispy chicken, bacon, cheddar and ranch dressing, you'd be better off eating a burger.
Hide Caption 8 of 10

Photos: 10 foods that are healthy, except when they aren't If you are vegetarian, peanut butter can be a convenient way to add protein and heart-healthy fats to your diet.
Just steer clear of flavored peanut butters with sugar and cocoa butter, which can quickly turn your passion for peanut butter into consumption of calorie-rich chocolate.
Hide Caption 9 of 10
(CNN) Eman Abdul Atti, once believed to be the "world's heaviest woman," died on Monday due to complications from heart disease and kidney dysfunction, according to a statement from Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
The 37-year old Egyptian woman weighed 1,102 pounds (500 kg), her family reported, prior to undergoing weight reduction surgery at Saifee Hospital in Mumbai in March.
All signs looked positive immediately following the surgery for Eman, who had lost more than 200 pounds prior to the operation.
"She is very happy, she started dancing in her bed," Dr. Muffazal Lakdawala, the surgeon who performed her laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy operation, told CNN in March.
"Her smile has come back."
The procedure involves removing part of the stomach so that only a "sleeve," roughly the size and shape of a banana, is left behind, along with the muscle that controls emptying food into the intestine.
On September 9, Eman celebrated her 37th birthday.
Early difficulties

Eman's family said Eman had weighed 11 pounds (5 kg) at birth and suffered from thyroid problems since she was a child.
The thyroid gland produces hormones that help regulate metabolism.
By fifth grade, she'd stopped going to school because she'd begun to have difficulties moving and walking.
For the past two decades, Eman has barely left her room, her family reported.
She suffered a stroke and, unable to move or communicate, her weight increased to more than 1,000 pounds.
Her health deteriorated rapidly.
Her sister created a social media campaign last year and Lakdawala responded by offering to help.
His proposed three-and-a-half year plan including two operations to help her reduce her weight to less than 220 pounds (100kg).
Eman overcame a number of hurdles to reach what her family had hoped to be a life-saving surgery in Mumbai, including an initial refusal to grant her a visa because of her inability to get to the embassy in person.
After surmounting that problem with the help of an Indian minister, she then faced the difficulty of boarding an airplane.
Egypt Air specially adapted a cargo plane to transport her to India.
Following the surgery, Lakdawala said her kidney function had improved.
"She has done well post-surgery," he told CNN in March.
At that time, he intended for her to lose another 155 to 175 pounds (70 to 80 kg) within the next couple of months.
The plan was to then send her home to Egypt and schedule a second surgery for next year.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Eman was later transferred to Burjeel Hospital in Abu Dhabi.
There, her condition was managed by a medical team of more than 20 doctors in different specialties.
However, her heart and kidneys could no longer function.
Her family expressed appreciation for the care provided by Burjeel Hospital and the support of the people of the UAE, according to the hospital statement.
"Our prayers and heartfelt condolences go out to her family," Burjeel Hospital staff said in the statement.
(CNN) A charming three-story home trimmed in white sits at the corner of 10th and Center streets on the Georgia Institute of Technology campus in Atlanta.
From the outside, the 5,000-square-foot abode appears just like any other home, but inside, Georgia Tech researchers are testing and developing cutting-edge devices to determine which can make the home safer -- and smarter -- for older adults.
The house is actually a living lab, called the Aware Home , and research conducted there has revealed some of the top home-related concerns among older adults, said Brian Jones, director of the Aware Home and a senior research scientist at Georgia Tech.
"Some of the concerns they had were around unattended cooking," he said, adding that the No.
1 cause of fires in older adults' homes is cooking equipment.
"If you forget that you have turned on the water to draw a bath or to wash the dishes, that can cause significant damage in the home," he said.
"TVs left on was another ... and then door locks."
Now, some in-home technologies are in development -- or on the market -- to address those concerns.
What the future holds for older adult care

stove at the Aware Home has been equipped with sensing and a large colored-light system that blinks to alert you when the oven has been left on unattended, which can be helpful if you are nearby.
If you are leaving the house, a photo frame placed by the front door blinks and plays sound to notify you that the stove is unattended and left on.
Devices of the future are expected to collect and use data to become much more personalized, said Elizabeth Mynatt, a professor and executive director of the Institute for People and Technology at Georgia Tech.
JUST WATCHED The art of aging Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The art of aging 08:04

"They will learn more about your habits, your likes, your dislikes, your routines, when you're most likely to forget to take your medication, what are the aspects of your health that need the most attention," she said.
"They will become as personalized to you that you just can't even imagine living without them."
For instance, a long hallway in the Aware Home is equipped with gait-sensing technology through which the walking patterns of someone strutting by are screened, collected and analyzed.
Those personalized data could be used to track that individual's health.
The data even could be programmed with an algorithm to alert a caregiver if any potentially harmful changes emerge in the gait pattern.
"To track how someone is doing ... is very important," Mynatt said.
"It's important for the daughter who wants to know that her mom is doing OK.
It's important for someone who might need to respond to a health emergency, and it is important for health professionals who might need to see those slight declines or trends over time," she said.
"Perhaps a person is less steady going up those steps than they were three months ago.
That would be an important indicator to maybe make some changes in the house before a fall or something else occurs."
Jones, director of the Aware Home, said that while such technologies can help monitor an older adult's health, he doesn't think they would entirely eliminate the need for care facilities.
Rather, "it might also help in informing a family when someone may need a caregiver," he said.
Mynatt agreed that at some point, the human body may need more constant care, and so there still may be a need for care facilities.
"What we will hopefully see is that older adults will live the majority of their lives in the setting of their choice," she said.
"Only in times of acute medical crisis or only at the very, very end of life would you have to move out of this setting."
For now, Mynatt and her colleagues are analyzing how such technologies may change the future.
However, you don't have to wait: Some technologies are assisting older adults today.
Smart home technologies on the market

Mynatt has connected her smartphone to her mother's Fitbit in order to keep track of her health and safety, despite living about a three-hour drive away, she said.
"If I'm wondering how she's doing, I can just check on her steps," Mynatt said.
"I know that on Friday, she volunteers in the hospital and there's going to be a lot of steps, and I know what Sunday's going to look like, and I know what her routine is.
So that little bit of information actually tells me quite a bit that she's doing alright."
As the 65-and-older population in the United States is projected to nearly double by the year 2050 -- reaching 83.7 million -- more and more smart technologies have appeared on the market for older adults.
One new device called Inirv React , currently in beta testing, connects your stove to a sensor in your home and a smartphone app.
The sensor will automatically turn the stove off if it no longer detects motion around the appliance after a long period of time.
You can also turn the stove off using your smartphone.
LifeAssist Technologies has developed the Reminder Rosie , a clock that allows you to record personalized messages and reminders that will be broadcast at scheduled times for whomever is in the home.
A reminder could be to take medication or that the grandchildren will be coming over for dinner.
Then there's MedMinder , a collection of automatic medication dispensers.
The dispensers first flash to remind users to take their medication.
They then beep if the medicine's still not taken.
Next, they call the user.
After a certain period of time, a caregiver or family member will be notified.
There are robots on the market for older adults, too.
The Paris-based company Bluefrog Robotics has developed Buddy, a companion robot that can act as a calendar reminder and alarm clock, and connect with home security systems.
With any technology, "most people ask that question, 'How invasive is it?'
But what we hear from older adults is that they value the security and the safety that the technology provides for them," Mynatt said.
"When we've talked to older adults about robots that could help them in the home, they'll tell us that they would rather have a robot than a human caregiver in some cases, because robots don't gossip," she said.
"They don't look through their things.
Robots don't judge.
So if a robot could help them day in and day out then, and a human could come in as needed, they would love that combination."
'Being independent is foremost in the mind'

While many older adults worry about losing their independence, 75-year-old Albert Bolet of Atlanta thinks most older adults are typically receptive to bringing technology into their homes.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"People have the misguided impression that seniors are adverse to technology.
I don't think that that is true at all," said Bolet, who has participated as a subject in research at Georgia Tech's Aware Home with his wife, Margarita.
"We do know what routers are, we do understand wireless technology, and we understand how these things will make things easier.
People will always tend to use things that are simple and will eliminate problems in their life," he said.
"Being independent is foremost in the mind of anybody that gets to be our age or older."
As technologies develop, researchers hope that they continue to improve independence and provide more options for older adults in the future.
(CNN) The drama was palpable.
Somewhere, under a collapsed school building in Mexico City, a little girl named Frida Sofia was trapped.
Rescuers scraped through the rubble, racing to set her free.
We were riveted.
After a horrific 7.1 magnitude earthquake devastated the capital city, we were all pulling for an uplifting rescue.
The problem was, Frida Sofia didn't exist.
That came out two days later, when the Mexican navy said it was sorry for the erroneous information.
It happened during the 1985 Mexico quake as well.
Then, as now, a little child trapped in debris gripped the imagination of the nation.
He, too, wasn't real.
In both revelations, there was an odd disappointment.
The emotional connection with these children had been so strong, the obsession with their plight palpable.
But why?
Sociologists call it the "identifiable victim effect."
When we're confronted with a tragedy with hundreds or thousands of victims, we often zero in on the plight of one person.
It's especially true when that person's a child -- real, or imagined.
JUST WATCHED Frenzy as people are heard trapped under rubble Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Frenzy as people are heard trapped under rubble 02:10

The difference between a victim and a statistic

In 1968, economist Thomas Schelling wrote that the death of an individual, as opposed to a group, invokes "anxiety and sentiment, guilt and awe, responsibility and religion."
Yet, he continued, "most of this awesomeness disappears when we deal with statistical death."
These words became the cornerstone of the "identifiable victim effect" theory.
It's based on a psychological process people employ when the suffering of many, or suffering in the abstract, becomes too hard to understand.
5-year-old wounded Syrian kid Omran Daqneesh sits alone in the back of the ambulance in Aleppo.
It's also a psychological process that activates our most basic human motivator: Emotion.
"Emotions are mechanisms that compel us to act," says Dan Ariely, an author and behavior economics expert who holds a Ph.D. in cognitive psychology.
"Think of it as nature's way to get us to do something."
"And what created emotion is not statistical information about lots of people," he says.
"It's the individual and the empathy we feel for them"

Children in particular are a main focus of this biological switch, because we see them as innocent.
"We can't attribute any blame to them," Ariely says.
"It is a question of agency.
When we have people that we think don't have agency, then we feel much worse for them and we are much more willing to do things for them."
There's a positive side to this

That's not always a bad thing.
Take Omran Daqneesh , the Syrian boy made famous in 2016 by viral footage from war-torn Aleppo.
Hundreds of thousands of Syrians have died since the Syrian civil war began in 2011.
Yet, the image of Omran, bloodied and dazed in the back of an ambulance, galvanized the public's interest more than any six-figure statistic could.
Often, these iconic children serve as symbols of a larger struggle -- war, immigration, natural disaster, or in the case of Ryan White, illness.
Ryan was diagnosed with AIDS when he was only 13.
The year was 1984, a time when HIV/AIDS was widely misunderstood and heavily stigmatized.
His journey affected the public so acutely that it inspired legislation around the disease -- a moment of real social progress.
American AIDS activist Ryan White.
Born with haemophilia, he accidentally contracted the AIDS virus during medical treatment.
His legal struggle to continue studying at public school made national headlines.
But there's a negative consequence too

But the intense fascination the public forms around an individual can sometimes invite a similarly disproportional response.
In 1987, "Baby Jessica" fell down a well and instantly became an American legend.
Her 58-hour rescue was must-watch TV drama for millions.
A rescue worker carries18-month-old Jessica McClure to safety in Midland, Texas after she was trapped for 58 hours after she plunged 22 feet into an abandoned water well.
There can often be an uncomfortable, reality-TV feel to these kinds of obsessions.
Each time a child makes the news for an abduction or a fall down a well, the public's intense interest becomes both a byproduct of the story and a part of the story.
With Baby Jessica's rescue, the modern obsession with endangered children was born.
There have been innumerable instances since then.
There's Madeline McCann, a British girl who went missing in 2007.
About 800,000 kids go missing each year, according to one often-quoted stat .
There's not enough emotional energy in the world to worry about each one equally.
So we focus on the ones who're most readily before us.
JUST WATCHED Missing minorities get less media coverage than white children and adults.
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missing minorities get less media coverage than white children and adults.
03:50

This can lead to a disproportionate level of attention and aid.
"The kind of things that compel us to act are not necessarily the important things," Ariely says.
"In cases where we ask the question of where to give money, the thing that is emotionally compelling, that will be where our focus is."
... and it explains Frida's story

It was the drama of a specific storyline that pulled people toward -- and made others skeptical of -- the story of Frida Sofia.
It's no surprise the narrative was fascinating.
Who wouldn't root for, pray for, hope for, a child's survival?
But as the hours wore on, the truth emerged.
The Mexican navy said it had based its information on "technical reports" and on the accounts of civilians and rescuers.
"I offer the Mexican public an apology for the information disseminated this afternoon where I affirmed that I did not have details about a supposed child survivor in this tragedy," Angel Enrique Sarmiento, deputy secretary of the Mexican navy, said.
JUST WATCHED Silence falls as crowds listen for signs of life after the Mexico earthquake Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Silence falls as crowds listen for signs of life after the Mexico earthquake 01:13

Immediately, the conversation turned to the story of Monchito, the "ghost boy."
During the Mexico quake of 1985, Monchito's story followed a similar narrative to Frida's.
He was believed to be a 9-year-old boy trapped in the debris of a house.
Civilians and rescuers fretted over his rescue, convinced by family accounts and their own senses the boy was just beyond their reach.
He was never found.
Crisis and chaos can often scatter reason and push us back to our more basic functions.
And emotion, it seems, is the ultimate override.
(CNN) In a new effort to tackle the deadly opioid addiction crisis in the United States, pharmacy giant CVS announced Friday that it will limit opioid prescriptions to seven days for certain conditions.
This restriction will apply to patients who are new to pain therapy.
The new pharmacy program will also limit the daily dosage of pain pills based on their strength and will require use of immediate-release formulations before extended-release opioids -- intended for severe, long-term pain treatment -- are dispensed.
The changes will roll out February 1 and cover all commercial, health plan, employer and Medicaid clients.
CVS, which manages medications for nearly 90 million plan members, is one of the largest pharmaceutical chains in the US, with approximately 9,600 CVS Pharmacy stores and more than 1,100 walk-in medical clinics.
"With a presence in nearly 10,000 communities across the country, we see firsthand the impact of the alarming and rapidly growing epidemic of opioid addiction and misuse," said Larry J. Merlo, president and CEO of CVS Health

Sales of prescription opioids quadruple from 1999 to 2014

From 1999 to 2014, sales of prescription opioids in the US almost quadrupled , according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, yet there has been no change in pain reported by Americans.
CVS said its pharmacists will counsel patients with opioid prescriptions about the risk of dependence and addiction based on CDC guidelines .
These educational sessions will also emphasize the importance of keeping medications secure in the home and proper disposal of unused medications.
To help patients wanting to follow these guidelines, the company will almost double the number of drug disposal units in its Medication Disposal for Safer Communities Program from 800 to 1,550 kiosks.
This expansion will begin this fall with locations in Florida, Massachusetts, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and the District of Columbia.
These moves put CVS's pharmacy program more in line with the CDC's opioid prescribing guidelines.
Express Scripts, the country's largest pharmacy benefits manager, has similar limits in place.
An 'impactful' move?
"I think it's going to be helpful.
I think it's going to be impactful," said Dr. Andrew Kolodny, director of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, who saw the announcement as more than a public relations move.
"It will be expensive.
This will be a real administrative burden" for CVS, he said.
Studies have found that longer prescription durations, as well as higher dosages, increase the likelihood of chronic use.
CVS's steps are meant to curb not just potential long-term opioid use but also potential opioid misuse.
"There are millions of prescription bottles sitting in our bathroom cabinets and on our bedroom nightstands right now, including far too many prescription opioids that ultimately are used non-medically," said Dr. Caleb Alexander, co-director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness.
"We've been watching the epidemic get worse, hidden in plain sight, for far too long, and these types of policies are necessary to reduce the incredible oversupply of prescription opioids," Alexander said.
Balancing patients' needs

The American Academy of Pain Medicine "supports any initiative that would help limit the effects of over prescribing medications or leading to excessive unused medicines that could lead to harm to a patient or family members or their community," said Dr. Steven Stanos , president of the academy.
Stanos worries that CVS's recommendations could be interpreted too rigidly and affect patients.
"We would want it to balance the needs of the patient and doesn't intrude on the relationship between the patient and the physician and how they made that decision," Stanos said.
It's a sentiment echoed by Dr. Patrice Harris, chairwoman of the American Medical Association's opioids task force.
"When patients seek physician help for an opioid use disorder -- or need comprehensive care for chronic pain -- one-size-fits-all limits, such as blanket prior authorization protocols, may cause delays in care that could severely harm patients," she said.
CVS said its guidelines are flexible and recognize that there maybe situations that require more than a seven-day prescription or a higher-dose opioid.
For times like those, physicians will be able to seek exceptions.
CVS is also committing $2 million to federally qualified community health centers that provide medication-assisted treatment and other addiction recovery services.
The President's opioid commission says that about 142 Americans die every day from a drug overdose, equal to the death toll from the September 11 attacks every three weeks.
Most of those overdoses are from opioids.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Though there were over 30,000 fatal overdoses from opioid drugs in 2015, public health experts believe that for every fatal overdose, there are 30 non-fatal overdoses.
That would mean over 900,000 overdoses in 2015 alone.
According to the CDC, drug overdoses are the leading cause of unintentional death in the US.
Story highlights An attorney cited Aaron Hernandez's test results from the Boston University CTE Center

Hernandez played for the New England Patriots from 2010 to 2012

(CNN) Aaron Hernandez, the former NFL star who took his life while serving a murder sentence in prison, had chronic traumatic encephalopathy -- commonly known as CTE -- attorney Jose Baez said Thursday.
Baez cited study results compiled by the Boston University CTE Center, which examined Hernandez's brain for the neurodegenerative brain disease.
Hernandez played for the New England Patriots from 2010 to 2012 after a standout collegiate career at the University of Florida.
According to a statement from BU, Hernandez's brain was examined by Dr. Ann McKee, director of the CTE Center.
The neurodegenerative brain disease has Alzheimer's-like symptoms, including memory loss, confusion, aggression, rage and, at times, suicidal behavior.
It is believed to result from repeated trauma to the head, which results in a buildup of the abnormal protein tau that clumps in the brain.
The disease is categorized in four degrees, with Stage 4 being the most severe.
According to McKee's analysis, Hernandez was found to have Stage 3 CTE, which is commonly associated with cognitive and memory loss, as well as behavioral changes and impaired judgment.
Hernandez was found to have early degeneration of brain cells and large tears in the septum pellucidum, a central membrane of the brain.
Read More
(CNN) Andrew Montgomery was a budding performer when he first saw the show "Le Rve-The Dream" nine years ago in Las Vegas.
"I saw it, and I was like, 'I have to be a part of this show,' " he said.
Physically demanding for performers, the show is artful and acrobatic and plays out in a pool of water with lifts instead of a stage.
In 2015, Montgomery got his chance.
He saw a flyer for an audition in Los Angeles, where he was living, and seized the opportunity.
"We had auditioned close to 500 people when we saw him.
And he was a jack of all trades," said Louanne Madorma, "Le Rve" casting director.
"He had something really special from the beginning, and everybody knew that he was the guy I wanted."
But four days after the audition, Montgomery's life took a tragic turn.
"I was struck by a car on my motorcycle while riding home from work," the 30-year-old recalled.
"My foot actually got smashed between the car bumper and my motorcycle."
He spent the next 2 weeks in the hospital and had three surgeries to try to save his foot.
"My doctor has basically told me that amputation seems to be the best option," Montgomery said in a video shot from his hospital bed.
"I'm not ready to let go," he added, holding back tears.
But eventually, his left leg was amputated below the knee.
"When you have any type of life-changing event like that, you're left to evaluate where your life sits," he said.
"I thought, 'There's no way I could be in the show.'
"

After going home from the hospital, Montgomery gave himself a week to grieve.
"And then, from there on, I said, 'there's no looking back.'
And that's when I started fighting."
The day he got his first prosthesis, Montgomery was walking on his own.
Three weeks later, he was walking up and down stairs, running and even dancing.
"I immediately hit the gym as soon as I could.
I was constantly focusing on balance and just building all of that strength," he said.
Madorma reached out to Montgomery after hearing about his accident.
When he stopped by the show to see a friend, the casting director told him, "As soon as you're ready, if you can do what you did in the audition, you have a job."
Montgomery started sending her videos.
"He ran and did a round-off back handspring," she said.
"He progressed very quickly."
It was eight months from the day he started walking again to the day he walked back into the audition room.
And then one day, he got the call to join the cast.
"Everything that I had worked for up to this point and everything that I had done to get my life back on track was within that phone call," he said.
"I was completely beside myself.
I was running around my apartment.
I was freaking out."
Montgomery moved to Las Vegas, and he's living his dream doing two shows a night, five days a week.
"It's very physically demanding.
We have people flying in and out.
We're hanging from the ceiling at 90 feet.
We've got people swimming in and out of the water."
He has four waterproof prosthetic legs designed by the Hanger Clinic that he uses in the show: one that fits inside shoes and boots, one for aerial work, one for acrobatics and a backup in case one breaks.
"Despite what you see on stage, there are a numerous set of challenges that I have to overcome.
I like to say that inside every prosthesis is a person who is making it look easy."
Montgomery works as a male generalist, performing in multiple acts that involve dancing, swimming, aerial work and acrobatics.
His goal is to blend in with the cast.
"If you walked away from this show and you had no idea that there was an amputee in the show, I have done my job.
I don't think I can take for granted every second that I get to spend out on that stage, because there was a time when it never could have happened."
Story highlights Low desire in one partner is one main reason couples seek out sex therapy

Sexual desire changes across long-term relationships

Ian Kerner is a licensed psychotherapist, certified sexuality counselor and New York Times best-selling author.
Read more from him on his website, iankerner.com.
(CNN) About 15% of men and 34% of women say they're not really interested in sex, according to a new study, statistics that few experts find surprising.
In fact, low desire in one partner is probably the top reason couples seek out sex therapy.
When one of you has more interest in sex than the other, it's easy for the person with the higher sex drive to feel rejected, bruised and undesirable and for the partner who avoids sex to feel pressure, anxious and guilty.
Any number of factors can affect sexual desire, and most of them have little to do with your partner's attractiveness.
In the study I mentioned, researchers found that for both men and women, physical and mental health had an impact on libido.
But they may have different motivations for avoiding sex.
"For men, it's often the appearance of disinterest rather than actual loss of interest," sex therapist Deborah Fox said.
"Men avoid sex frequently due to prior performance issues, such as erectile issues or rapid ejaculation.
They may avoid it to escape the anxiety of these issues reoccurring."
In women, hormonal factors and fatigue can contribute to low libido.
And sometimes, life just gets in the way.
"In my practice, I see a lot of desire diminish due to interest in porn, boredom of the same sexual routine, the comfort of monogamy and relationship security, and the loss of couple time due to a focus on parenting time," sex therapist Amanda Pasciucco said.
Read More
And as I found in a newly released analysis of seven large surveys , teens are also now less likely to drive, date or go out without their parents than their counterparts 10 or 20 years ago.
Some have tried to explain certain aspects of these trends.
Today's teens are more virtuous and responsible, sociologist David Finkelhor has argued .
No, says journalist Jess Williams , they're just more boring.
Others have suggested that teens aren't working because they are simply lazy.
However, none of these researchers and writers has been able to tie everything together.
Not drinking or having sex might be considered "virtuous," but not driving or working is unrelated to virtue -- and might actually be seen as less responsible.
A lower teen pregnancy rate isn't "boring" or "lazy"; it's fantastic.
These trends continued even as the economy improved after 2011, suggesting the Great Recession isn't the primary cause.
Nor is more schoolwork: The average teen today spends less time on homework than his counterparts did in the 1990s, with time spent on extracurricular activities staying about the same.
To figure out what's really going on, it's worth taking a broader look at today's teens -- a generation of kids I call " iGen " -- and the environment they're living in.
A different culture, a slower path

Working, driving, drinking alcohol, having sex and dating have one thing in common: They are all activities adults do.
This generation of teens, then, is delaying the responsibilities and pleasures of adulthood.
Adolescence -- once the beginning of adulthood -- now seems to be an extension of childhood.
It's not that teens are more virtuous or lazier.
They could simply be taking longer to grow up.
Looking at these trends through the lens of " life history theory " might be useful.
According to this model, whether development is "slow" (with teens taking longer to get to adulthood) or "fast" (getting to adulthood sooner) depends on cultural context.
A "slow life strategy" is more common in times and places where families have fewer children and spend more time cultivating each child's growth and development.
This is a good description of our current culture in the U.S., when the average family has two children , kids can start playing organized sports as preschoolers and preparing for college can begin as early as elementary school.
This isn't a class phenomenon; I found in my analysis that the trend of growing up more slowly doesn't discriminate between teens from less advantaged backgrounds and those from wealthier families.
A "fast-life strategy," on the other hand, was the more common parenting approach in the mid-20th century, when fewer labor-saving devices were available and the average woman had four children.
As a result, kids needed to fend for themselves sooner.
When my uncle told me he went skinny-dipping with his friends when he was eight, I wondered why his parents gave him permission.
Then I remembered: His parents had six other children (with one more to come), ran a farm and it was 1947.
The parents needed to focus on day-to-day survival, not making sure their kids had violin lessons by age five.
Is growing up slowly good or bad?
Life history theory explicitly notes that slow and fast life strategies are adaptations to a particular environment, so each isn't inherently "good" or "bad."
Likewise, viewing the trends in teen behavior as "good" or "bad" (or as teens being more "mature" or "immature," or more "responsible" or "lazy") misses the big picture: slower development toward adulthood.
And it's not just teens -- children are less likely to walk to and from school and are more closely supervised, while young adults are taking longer to settle into careers, marry and have children.
Adulting " -- which refers to young adults performing adult responsibilities as if this were remarkable -- has now entered the lexicon.
The entire developmental path from infancy to full adulthood has slowed.
But like any adaptation, the slow life strategy has trade-offs.
It's definitely a good thing that fewer teens are having sex and drinking alcohol.
But what about when they go to college and suddenly enter an environment where sex and alcohol are rampant?
For example, although fewer 18-year-olds now binge-drink, 21- to 22-year-olds still binge-drink at roughly the same rate as they have since the 1980s.
One study found that teens who rapidly increased their binge-drinking were more at risk of alcohol dependence and adjustment issues than those who learned to drink over a longer period of time.
Delaying exposure to alcohol, then, could make young adults less prepared to deal with drinking in college.
The same might be true of teens who don't work, drive or go out much in high school.
Yes, they're probably less likely to get into an accident, but they may also arrive at college or the workplace less prepared to make decisions on their own.
Although I found in my analyses that iGen evinces a stronger work ethic than millennials, they'll probably also require more guidance as they transition into adulthood.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Even with the downsides in mind, it's likely beneficial that teens are spending more time developing socially and emotionally before they date, have sex, drink alcohol and work for pay.
The key is to make sure that teens eventually get the opportunity to develop the skills they will need as adults: independence, along with social and decision-making skills.
For parents, this might mean making a concerted effort to push your teenagers out of the house more.
Otherwise, they might just want to live with you forever.
(CNN) Most sex education classes begin in high school.
But a new study suggests that, no matter where children live, real talk about relationships, identity and sexuality should start even earlier to minimize the negative impacts of gender roles.
You've probably heard it before : More than biology, family, friends and society influence impressions of what it means to be a boy or a girl, placing rigid gender expectations on children from a young age.
In recent years, a growing body of research has focused on health inequities that result from enforced gender norms in children.
The study, published Wednesday in the Journal of Adolescent Health, contributes a global perspective to this issue.
The key finding: Whether a child is in Baltimore, Beijing or New Delhi, the onset of adolescence triggers a common set of rigidly enforced gender expectations associated with increased lifelong risks of mental and physical health problems.
Researchers with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and the World Health Organization collaborated on the Global Early Adolescent Study to identify universal themes in gender identity development across countries and income levels.
"Adolescent health risks are shaped by behaviors rooted in gender roles that can be well-established in kids by the time they are 10 or 11 years old," said Kristin Mmari, associate professor at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and lead researcher for qualitative research on the Global Early Adolescent Study.
"Yet we see billions of dollars around the world invested in adolescent health programs that don't kick in until they are 15, and by then, it's probably too late to make a big difference."
For girls, those risks can include child marriage, pregnancy, leaving school early, sexually transmitted infections and exposure to violence.
Boys suffer, too, from increased risk of substance abuse, suicide and shorter life expectancy than women -- especially if they try to challenge masculine norms.
The findings appear in the journal as a series of articles based on interviews in 15 countries with 450 early adolescents and their parents or guardians, totaling nearly 900 people.
The experiences described were different, but themes emerged across continents.
Girls are vulnerable, and boys are strong

The study calls it the hegemonic myth: the perception that men are the dominant sex, strong and independent, while women need to be protected.
This idea starts in early childhood, reinforced by schools, parents and media.
Interviews with children and their guardians revealed that the onset of puberty triggers increased reinforcement of pressure to conform to hegemonic sex-typed identities and roles.
While boys, men described having the freedom to come and go as they pleased to pursue education and other opportunities, girls found their mobility and access to education restricted, the study notes.
As they enter adolescence, silence and modesty are instilled as desirable values, as girls are pressed to behave in a "modest fashion."
This phenomenon leads to numerous cascading cultural perceptions.
Once puberty hits, it's all about (preventing) sex

Puberty deepens the divide, especially when it comes to sexuality, turning boys into predators and girls into potential targets, the study found.
Messages such as "don't sit like that," "don't wear that" and "boys will ruin your future" reinforce the gender division of power and promote sex segregation with the aim of preserving a girl's sexuality, the study says.
"In some places, girls come to internalize these norms to even a greater extent than boys."
In Delhi, once a girl reaches puberty, "her family is concerned with protecting her chastity, preventing elopement and fears stigma from losing family honor," the researchers said.
Girls there are not supposed to look at or talk to boys, "as this might raise suspicion that they were initiating romantic relationships."
The researchers also found that, despite efforts to normalize menstruation and breast development, negative societal attitudes further contribute to girls' sense of self-objectification, body shame and lack of agency in sexual decision-making.
"The onset of menstruation appeared to constitute a major concern for parents as they linked puberty with the potential for early romantic and sexual engagements and subsequent risk of adolescent pregnancy," the study said.
'Cover up, and don't go out'

As a consequence of adult perceptions of girls' sexual vulnerability, respondents in nearly every location reported that girls' mobility is far more restricted than it is for boys.
In Ghent, Belgium, respondents spoke of how girls had to take care in selecting their clothing or risk being seen as "too easy" or "prostitutes," making them potential victims of violence.
An 11-year-old in Delhi expressed a similar sentiment: "Parents also tell (girls) not to go out alone.
She will not be allowed to do a job.
I really don't understand why girls are not allowed to go out of the house."
A young girl in Nairobi, Kenya, described not being able to go out at night because she had grown breasts.
Parental fear for girls' safety and family status is a common rationale for restricting girls' movements, especially in the Middle East and among some immigrant groups in Western Europe.
But such concerns seem minor compared with the potential consequences.
"This constricted spatial mobility of girls is linked to restricted knowledge and power and can have profound health implications for girls in the form of more susceptibility to sexual violence and poor access to reproductive health services, in addition to loss of prestige especially among poor families," the study said.
Boys are trouble

Despite the freedom and benefits conferred upon them, boys are still perceived as a danger to girls because of their vulnerability -- a bias with negative impacts for both genders, researchers said.
In Delhi and Shanghai, girls said they were discouraged from interacting with boys, becoming friends them or forming romantic relationships.
"I don't make friends with boys, as my parents asked me not to," a 12-year-old in Delhi said.
"Maybe I befriend a girl and someone would see me and would go tell her dad, and problems happen," a boy in Assiut, Egypt, said.
Gender-nonconforming has consequences

A recurring theme in conversations with adolescents and adults was those who defied gender expectations, resulting in "significant sanctions and pressures to conform," the study said.
The study focuses on three common manifestations of defiance: boys wearing nail polish, girls playing football or soccer, and gender-"inappropriate" clothing.
For young children, it may start as acceptable to cross gender boundaries.
But once it becomes clear that a behavior is socially defined as typical for the other sex, "it is shunned out of fear of being ostracized," the study said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Though boys too resist typical masculine norms, researchers discovered a greater willingness among girls to challenge gender stereotypes, Moreover, "tomboy" behavior in girls enjoyed more peer and parental acceptance than their male "sissy" counterparts, who faced significantly more stigma and rejection, the study said.
"A potential explanation for this may be that girls who 'act like boys' display masculine characteristics associated with power and dominance," researchers surmised.
Conversely, "boys who 'act like girls' are generally not granted the same social acceptance because of the lower power or prestige associated with femininity traits and behaviors."
(CNN) The DNA of human embryos has been altered and studied for the first time in the UK, offering new insight into the early stages of human development.
Scientists at the Francis Crick Institute, a medical research center, have identified the role of a key gene that controls how embryos form during the first few days of development.
Understanding the biology behind these early stages could help in the discovery of ways to improve the success of in-vitro fertilization, offer some explanation into why some women experience miscarriage and offer general knowledge on how humans develop.
Studies in the United States have manipulated the genomes of embryos to help understand -- and fix -- gene mutations that lead to inherited diseases, such as heart conditions.
But this is the first research to target human growth and development.
'Switching off' a crucial stage

Stopping a gene from working and exploring what happens when it's gone is a good way to find out the gene's purpose.
The team used a gene-editing technique known as CRISPR-Cas9 to switch off a particular gene involved in embryo development, known as OCT4.
Blocking the functioning of this gene means the resulting protein, also called OCT4, cannot be produced, eventually halting an embryo's development.
"Embryo microinjection" shows an embryo being injected with the CRISPR-Cas9 components.
When a human egg is fertilized, it forms an embryo, which then divides and grows from one cell into a ball of more than 200 cells, called a blastocyst.
At this point, the cells begin to separate and specialize, with some set to form the placenta and others destined to form a baby.
The researchers found that without OCT4, this blastocyst couldn't form.
"We were surprised to see just how crucial this gene is for human embryo development, but we need to continue our work to confirm its role," said Norah Fogarty of the Francis Crick Institute, first author of the study, which was published Wednesday in the journal Nature .
"Other research methods, including studies in mice, suggested a later and more focused role for OCT4, so our results highlight the need for human embryo research," she said in a statement.
The new research investigated the role of this gene in mice and humans and found that OCT4 plays a different role in human embryos than in mice, highlighting the need for human research in this area.
"In humans, (OCT4) not only maintains the embryo, but other tissues are affected, and the blastocyst does not form," said Ludovic Vallier, a stem cell biologist at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute who co-authored the research.
"In mice, (the gene) just maintains the integrity of the embryo."
The embryo on the fifth day of development, right, and an edited embryo without the OCT4 gene on the fifth day of development.
Vallier believes this further highlights that human development is very specific and different from that of other species, meaning techniques based on animal models will have limitations.
"We never know what to expect when we model from a mouse system," he said.
For the new study, the Crick Institute team blocked the OCT4 gene in 41 embryos donated by couples who had undergone IVF.
Opening the door for further research

After showing that gene-editing techniques can highlight the functionality of certain genes in this way, the team hopes other scientists will use these methods to discover the role of other genes and ultimately help improve IVF and avoid miscarriage.
Among women who know they are pregnant, it's estimated that one on six will have a miscarriage, according to the UK's National Health Service

"If we knew the key genes that embryos need to develop successfully, we could improve IVF treatments and understand some causes of pregnancy failure," Kathy Niakan of the Francis Crick Institute, who led the research, said in a statement.
This study opens the door for further investigations.
"It may take many years to achieve such an understanding.
Our study is just the first step."
"This proof-of-principle paper uses CRISPR genome editing to show that although genetic expression in the early mouse embryo may be similar to a human embryo.
There are critical differences in the levels and resulting developmental capacity of these embryos when essential genes are mutated," said Helen Claire O'Neill, programme director of reproductive science and women's health at University College London, who was not involved in the study.
"This paper therefore elegantly highlights the need for further research using human embryos."
"One in every four couples has been affected by infertility, and to address the issue, we have to understand the biology of the earliest stages of human development," commented Dr. Dusko Ilic, reader in stem cell science at King's College London, who also was not part of the research.
"The study is another proof that the findings from experimental animal models cannot be always extrapolated to humans."
Ethical questions

This form of research, however, does not come without controversy, as it involved manipulating the genes of human embryos and the potential to alter the germline: how DNA is passed on though generations.
In the UK, strict ethical guidelines are in place for the use of eggs, sperm and embryos in research, regulated by the Human Fertilization and Embryo Authority.
Researchers must apply for a license to conduct research, and embryos used for research cannot develop for longer than 14 days after fertilization and cannot be implanted into a woman's womb.
The new study explored blastocyst formation in embryos, which occurs within seven days of fertilization.
The controversy surrounding gene editing in human embryos partly stems from concern that the changes CRISPR makes in DNA can be passed down to the offspring of those embryos, from generation to generation.
Down the line, that could affect the genetic makeup of humans in erratic ways.
Some CRISPR critics also have argued that gene editing may give way to eugenics and to allowing embryos to be edited with certain features in order to develop so-called designer babies.
But the researchers believe this does not apply to the current study, which focused on basic science and understanding rather than future editing in humans.
"We are focusing on developing the technology," Vallier said.
"These proof-of-concept studies are needed to know the risks, to be sure there are no side effects and that the technique is not damaging other regions of the genome."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Many experts believe this form of research is pivotal to gaining a better understanding of how humans develop.
"There are many more questions posed by this first demonstration that genome editing can be added to the toolbox of methods that can be used to understand the biology of the early human embryo," said Robin Lovell-Badge, a geneticist at the Francis Crick Institute who was not involved in the study.
"More understanding of the embryo itself will also lead to better ways to derive and use stem cells corresponding the various cell types that are present in the embryo shortly before implantation.
Knowing which genes and the pathways they control will be key to all of this."
(CNN) The Gatorade Company will no longer be able to make disparaging comments about water, according to a settlement announced Thursday by California Attorney General Xavier Becerra .
The settlement stems from the company's free and award-winning mobile game "Bolt!"
which came out in 2012 but is no longer listed in the iTunes store.
Gatorade's "Bolt!"
game came out in 2012 but is no longer listed in the iTunes store.
In the game, the fastest man alive, sprinter Usain Bolt , picks up gold coins as he races across the screen.
He runs faster and gains fuel if he hits a Gatorade icon, but he slows down and loses fuel if he hits a water droplet.
The opening instructions warn, "Keep your performance level high by avoiding water."
Instead it urges the player to "Grab Gatorade to fill your fuel meter."
The complaint alleges that Gatorade violated California consumer protection laws by making misleading statements about water, according to Becerra's office.
"Making misleading statements is a violation of California law.
But making misleading statements aimed at our children is beyond unlawful," Becerra said in a statement.
"It's morally wrong and a betrayal of trust.
"Today's settlement should make clear that the California Department of Justice will pursue false advertisers and hold them accountable," he said.
There was no admission of wrongdoing or liability by Gatorade as part of the settlement.
In addition to governing how the company depicts water, the settlement will require Gatorade to disclose endorser relationships in any social media posts.
It will also prohibit the company from advertising its products in the media when children under 12 make up more than 35% of the audience.
Gatorade must pay $300,000 to the California Attorney General's Office, $120,000 of which will be used to fund research or education about the importance of drinking water and proper nutrition in kids and teenagers.
The Gatorade Company, a subsidiary of PepsiCo, did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
More than 2.3 million people downloaded the game, which was played 87 million times and "harnessed 4 million online fans," according to a 2013 presentation by marketing company Manning Gottlieb OMD.
The company helped create the game and talked about its success after "Bolt!"
won a marketing award.
The presentation says that "teen athletes often chose to drink water during practice because they thought it provided the proper hydration they needed, so we came up with an entertaining and competitive way to reinforce to teens that consuming Gatorade would help them perform better on the field and that water was the enemy of performance."
The presentation has since been removed from the award site but was archived elsewhere.
I got 326,325 in Bolt!
by @RockLive.
Get this free iPhone game and run with Usain Bolt!
Download here: http://t.co/9QDMzH5D  Mike Tyson (@MikeTyson) August 5, 2012

The presentation also outlined various celebrity endorsements from the likes of former boxer Mike Tyson and pop singer Justin Bieber.
CNN could not confirm that Bieber had tweeted about the game.
Representatives for Bieber have not responded to CNN's request for comment, and there was not a Manning Gottlieb OMD representative who could confirm how Bieber communicated about the game.
About 73% of players came from the company's target demographic of 13 to 24 years old, according to the presentation.
"And more importantly," it said, "with 820 million brand impressions, it drove home the idea that Gatorade is better than water."
That's the problem, said Jennifer Harris , a food and marketing expert with University of Connecticut's Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity.
"Companies are finding that teens are more skeptical of classic advertising and traditional television ads.
They tune them out," Harris said.
That's why there are more product placements in movies, TV shows and video games.
"It is a way to sort of deactivate the skepticism someone would have over a traditional ad.
"When this is disguised as entertainment, it distracts you, and the advertisement becomes more effective because your defense mechanism is lower," Harris said.
"When the industry aims these messages at young people, it raises public health concerns."
Water should be a child's "initial beverage of choice as long as daily dietary caloric and other nutrient (eg, calcium, vitamins) needs are being met," according to 2011 guidelines from the American Association of Pediatrics .
"Water is also generally the appropriate first choice for hydration before, during, and after most exercise regimens."
Kids rarely ever need sports drinks, the association has said, and their use should be limited to when "there is a need for more rapid replenishment of carbohydrates and/or electrolytes in combination with water during periods of prolonged, vigorous sports participation or other intense physical activity."
A 32-fluid-ounce bottle of Gatorade may contain as much as 56 grams of sugar

Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
With the rate of obesity more than doubling for US children and quadrupling in adolescents since the 1970s, many doctors have come to see sugary beverages as a threat to children's health.
(CNN) "Look, I'm so sorry to do this to you on your birthday," Hayley Webb, a television reporter in Australia, recalled her mom saying in 2012.
"I have six months to live."
A month later, her mother, Narelle, was calling her by the wrong name, hallucinating and falling over.
She could hear the cries of a baby she lost when he was 6 months old.
"Initially, we would try and reason with her, but we ended up playing into her reality to make it easier for her," said Hayley's brother, Lachlan, co-founder of an urban development startup.
Hayley and Lachlan Webb learned that their mom's illness could be inherited.
But perhaps most strikingly, their mother couldn't fall into a deep sleep.
"You're in this gray area, in this limbo land between being awake and being asleep," Webb said.
"You get into a perpetual stage of a dream."
She died in July 2012 at 61 years old.
The same thing happened to their grandmother -- and they learned it could be passed down to them.
'It's about mom'

Sonia Vallabh was in her second year at Harvard Law School in 2010 when her mother got sick.
Just months before, her mother had been healthy and vibrant, planning Vallabh's wedding to Eric Minikel.
"It was a small Indian wedding, by which I mean 300 people," Minikel said.
Vallabh's mother began having trouble with her eyesight, and her strange symptoms progressed to the point where she couldn't recognize her daughter.
Her muscles would jerk and spasm.
She spoke in tongues.
"She was fitful and couldn't really tell you if she'd been awake or asleep," Vallabh said.
Kamni Vallabh, left, was planning her daughter Sonia's wedding less than a year before she came down with a mysterious, debilitating illness.
By fall 2010, she was on life support, with needles, tubes and wires coming out of her.
"She looked like she was being tortured," Vallabh said.
"How could we ask this person to keep going?"
Her mother died in December 2010 at age 52.
Shortly thereafter, Vallabh's father, a doctor, pulled her aside during a visit home.
"I need to talk to you about something.
It's about mom," he said.
"We got her autopsy report.
Her disease was genetic."
A major discovery

In 1986, this disease was given a name : fatal familial insomnia, or FFI.
Much of what doctors first learned about the disease comes from a family in Venice, Italy, who have suffered from it for over 200 years.
"You'd have 14 kids in a generation.
Six or seven of them would die from the disease," said D.T.
Max , a writer for the New Yorker and author of the book "The Family That Couldn't Sleep."
The family, who prefer not to use their surnames, had kept the disease a family secret for generations, Max said.
Doctors listed their causes of death as "nervous exhaustion," encephalitis and even schizophrenia, he said.
"It's been a disaster.
A brutal suffering," said Lucia, 63, one member of the Italian family.
She has lost many relatives to the disease, including her father, brother and sister.
But when another family member, Silvano, started showing signs of the disease -- he began sweating profusely, with pinpoint pupils -- he decided it was time for his family to stop suffering in silence.
It was 1984, and he was 53 years old.
Silvano went to the University of Bologna, where researchers filmed his final months.
In some of the videos, his eyes are half-open, staring into space.
Just as it appears he's dozing off, he jerks to a half-wakefulness.
"Exactly what you can feel if you get a sleep attack when you are driving," said Dr. Pietro Cortelli , one of the researchers Silvano approached at the University of Bologna.
"You are falling asleep, and then you wake up."
In other videos, he is lying in bed, pretending to comb his hair or button an imaginary shirt.
Sleeping pills didn't work.
No matter what, his brain didn't allow him to reach the deeper, restorative stages of sleep.
"In few months, I'm going to die," Silvano told Cortelli.
"This is one of the few (chances) you have to discover what is the cause of the curse of my family."
Silvano died that year, in July 1984.
Cortelli and his mentor, Dr. Elio Lugaresi , shipped his brain tissue to Lugaresi's former student -- a pathologist in the United States who could take a much closer look at what was going on.
Dr. Pierluigi Gambetti , the pathologist and a professor at Case Western Reserve University, found that most of the brain tissue appeared normal.
But one small structure, near the center of the brain, looked "like a sponge," he said.
"At that moment, I knew what FFI probably was," he said.
A deadly typo

Gambetti had seen the spongelike pattern before -- just not like this.
His mind instantly shifted to a group of diseases caused by a protein known as a prion.
"There's this one protein that's sort of at the heart of this disease, the prion protein," Vallabh explained.
"This is a protein that we all have.
We're all producing it all the time, and it's part of normal biology, but it's capable of undergoing ... a change in shape."
When that change happens, it begins a domino effect.
The abnormal prion converts a healthy one, creating two abnormal ones.
They go off and convert two more.
And so on.
"As these prions spread, they're killing brain cells in their wake," Vallabh said.
In the case of FFI, these proteins mostly home in on two locations within a central brain structure: the thalamus.
The thalamus is often described as the brain's switchboard, relaying signals from one region to the next.
It plays a crucial role in movement, sight and many other processes.
The spongy tissue that Gambetti found in Silvano's thalamus was full of tiny holes: the aftermath of prions that left dead cells in their path.
And the two spots in the thalamus where he found those holes turned out to be crucial to the sleep-wake cycle.
Damaging them can lead to a persistent, deadly insomnia.
Lachlan Webb is taking part in a study of human prion diseases, hoping that researchers will find a cure for his own.
"We don't know why that specific mutation ... causes that particular part of the brain to be affected," said Dr. Michael Geschwind , a neurologist at University of California, San Francisco who runs a clinical study of prion diseases.
"That's a big mystery."
Perhaps the best-known prion disease is mad cow disease, which destroys the brains and spinal cords of infected cattle.
But there are other infectious forms: scrapie in sheep, kuru and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in humans.
There are several genetic forms too, including FFI.
FFI is caused by a single, dominant gene mutation, meaning the Webbs and Vallabh had a 50-50 chance of inheriting the gene themselves.
There is no cure.
"It was a typo that has unfortunately been passed on to the future generations," Hayley Webb said.
"A deadly typo."
People with the gene have no symptoms until later in life, when the disease suddenly hits.
Before that, the only way to know is to get tested for the gene.
"Being in limbo was the hardest time," Vallabh said of being tested.
"It was really hard to think about anything else."
Searching for a cure

When the results came in, the Webb siblings and Vallabh all tested positive for the FFI gene.
"I think I was more devastated about Lachlan's diagnosis than my own, because I just wasn't expecting it," said Hayley Webb, now 31.
"You know, I'm the big sister," she said of her 29-year-old brother.
"I want to protect him.
He's my little brother."
"You know when you get fuzzy-brained when you're really exhausted?"
Webb says in a video diary.
"I think, Crap!
Is that a symptom?
Subconsciously, you can't help but be scared."
But all of them have turned a dire test result into motivation, mirroring Silvano's determination to get to the bottom of his "family curse."
Hayley and Lachlan Webb are participating in Geschwind's study at UCSF.
Soon after learning that she had the FFI gene, Vallabh, 33, quit her job in consulting, began sitting in on classes at MIT and took biology courses at Harvard Extension School.
"My thought was, 'I'll take a sabbatical from my normal life, because this is something that's going to be important to us from now until the end,' " she said.
She and her husband, Minikel, switched career paths; they are now getting their Ph.D.s in biology at Harvard Medical School, where they are working to find a cure for FFI before it's too late.
They founded the Prion Alliance to advance the science of this rare disease, which is known to affect only a handful of families worldwide.
Sonia Vallabh and Eric Minikel became scientists after learning that Vallabh carried the gene for fatal familial insomnia.
Because they see human prion diseases under the same umbrella, they hope their research leads to treatments for more than just FFI.
"It's virtually unprecedented that two people with zero scientific background would parachute into science and start working in the laboratory to think up four or five completely different strategies for taking on a complex neurological disorder," said Eric S. Lander , president of the Broad Institute, where Vallabh and Minikel conduct their research.
"Then again, you know, unprecedented things happen all the time in science," Lander said.
Vallabh and Minikel remain optimistic and see FFI's rareness as an asset.
It's genetically well-defined -- more so than many more common diseases.
They know their prion target; they just have to find a way to remove it.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
They remain hopeful that their new daughter, whom they welcomed to the world in July, will watch her mother grow old.
Thanks to genetic testing and in vitro fertilization, their daughter does not have the FFI gene.
"The hope has to be always that you find a cure," pathologist Gambetti said.
"And therefore, maybe there will be a time in which we will cross out this adjective -- 'fatal' -- from the name of the disease."
Story highlights 11th death reported after a Florida nursing home was left without A/C after Hurricane Irma

The nursing home failed to report dangerous conditions to authorities

(CNN) Eleven people have died after a Florida nursing home failed to evacuate its residents, who suffered for days in oppressive heat with no air conditioning after Hurricane Irma, according to the Hollywood Police Department.
A 93-year-old man died Tuesday, and two 94-year-old women died Wednesday and Thursday.
Their deaths were added to eight who were found dead last week at the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills or who died after being evacuated to a hospital.
The exact causes of death have not been reported, but a number of the 141 residents who were evacuated were treated for heat-related issues.
The deaths are all being considered as part of an ongoing criminal investigation, the police department said.
Nursing home residents sweltered in hazardous conditions after Hurricane Irma, which felled a tree that knocked out the transformer powering the air conditioning system.
Many were moved into the hallways, next to fans and spot coolers.
One video obtained by CNN shows a naked woman sitting in the hallway on what appears to be a hospital bed.
Despite multiple calls between the nursing home and state authorities, at no time did the nursing home report that its patients were in danger or that they needed to be evacuated, according to a report on Tuesday by Florida Gov.
Rick Scott's office.
The state advised managers "multiple times" to call 911 if such a situation arose.
Read More
This article was first published in May 2016.
It has been updated with this week's earthquake in Mexico.
"It will hurt a little bit," he says, "but keep going."
His aim: helping a woman trapped inside a Mexico City building, before it's too late.
A team gathers below a hole in a ceiling, reaching for the woman's feet and shouting words of encouragement as they pull her to safety.
So far, more than 50 people have been rescued from rubble after the temblor, President Enrique Pea Nieto said in televised remarks.
Reports of a 12-year-old girl trapped in the rubble of a collapsed school riveted people across the country.
Officials later said all students at the Colegio Enrique Rebsamen had been accounted for.
But crews were still combing the debris, searching for signs of life.
How long can someone survive after being buried alive?
Several factors are key, said Gupta, who has covered the aftermath of disasters around the world.
Most critical: whether the person has air.
Access to water and food is also important.
Some survivors, Gupta said, have reported drinking rainwater seeping in through the rubble.
"The people who tend to survive the longest, it depends a lot on the individual," Gupta said.
People can survive 100 hours without water if they're not becoming dehydrated because of injury or temperatures, said Dr. Paul Auerbach, a professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University.
They can usually survive two or three weeks without food.
Age also is a factor, he said, with infants and the elderly having a more difficult time.
Professional disaster response teams usually switch from a rescue effort to a recovery operation four or five days after an earthquake, said Auerbach, who worked with rescue teams after earthquakes in Nepal and Haiti.
"Nobody likes to stop, even if it's the right thing to do," he said.
"It goes against human nature to stop.
But there's definitely a danger involved with search and rescue, and you have to balance the hazard to the rescuers to the possibility of finding someone."
We don't know much yet about the people rescued so far in Mexico.
But here's a look at other cases of survivors pulled from rubble after disaster struck:

Kenya: Painstaking rescues to protect survivors

A hand reached out from the rubble.
Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Medics carry a woman on May 5, 2016, after she was pulled from the rubble of a collapsed building in Nairobi, Kenya.
She was trapped in the rubble for six days.
Click through for more amazing stories of survival, including the saga of Chilean miners, a man aboard the Costa Concordia and the "miracle babies" of the Mexico earthquake.
Hide Caption 1 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster In October, fishermen rescued an 18-month-old boy from the Aegean Sea after a boat carrying refugees capsized.
Hide Caption 2 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Jose Salvador Alvarenga says he survived being lost at sea for 13 months by living off fish and turtles, rainwater and, sometimes, his own urine.
After his boat was blown off course in a storm, currents took him across roughly 6,700 miles (10,780 kilometers) of open ocean, eventually reaching a remote coral atoll in the Marshall Islands in January of 2014.
Hide Caption 3 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster A 4-month-old boy was found in the rubble of his home after a magnitude-7.8 earthquake struck Bhaktapur, Nepal.
The baby survived in the debris for 22 hours.
Hide Caption 4 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Eighteen-month-old Lily Groesbeck survived 14 hours strapped in her car seat, hanging upside down just inches from the surface of an icy river, after a car accident in Spanish Fork, Utah.
Her mother died in the March 2015 crash.
Hide Caption 5 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Seventeen days after a building collapsed in Savar, Bangladesh, rescuers pull Reshma Begum from the rubble in May 2013.
More than 1,000 people died after the nine-story garment factory building fell on April 24.
Hide Caption 6 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster An officer of the Italian cruise line Costa Concordia, Manrico Giampedroni , is found 36 hours after the ship ran aground off the Mediterranean island of Giglio on January 13, 2012.
He broke his leg as the liner rolled was was found in a half-flooded dining room, suffering from hypothermia.
Hide Caption 7 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster A baby, her mother and her grandmother are rescued in eastern Turkey on October 25, 2011, two days after a 7.2-magnitude earthquake killed more than 600 people.
Dramatic video showed 2-week-old Arza Karaduman being carried from the debris of a multiple-story building.
Hide Caption 8 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster More than 9 miles out at sea, a 60-year-old Japanese man is found clinging to the swept-away remnants of his home on March 13, 2011.
Hiromitsu Shinkawa was drifting alone for more than two days after a massive Japanese earthquake and tsunami.
Hide Caption 9 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Anne Vos , 57, is rescued 24 hours after a five-story building where she worked collapsed during an earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand, on February 22, 2011.
She said she thought she was going to die and had called family and friends to say goodbye.
She talked to international media while trapped.
Hide Caption 10 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster After 69 harrowing days underground and a rescue mission costing up to $20 million, 33 Chilean miners are rescued on October 13, 2010.
The mine collapsed on August 5, leaving the workers trapped 2,300 feet beneath the Earth's surface.
Hide Caption 11 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Digging through the mud, Chinese soldiers rescue Liu Ma Shendeng from the second story of an apartment building on August 10, 2010.
The 52-year-old man was trapped for 60 hours after massive mudslides buried homes and ripped others apart in China's Gansu province.
The death toll climbed to more than 1,400.
Hide Caption 12 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Nine-year-old Ruben van Assouw is the sole survivor of a plane crash in Tripoli, Libya, on May 14, 2010.
His parents and brother are among the 103 people killed.
Hide Caption 13 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster A man identified as Evan Muncie , 28, is found in the ruins of a marketplace, his family tells CNN, nearly a month after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake devastated Haiti on January 12, 2010.
He suffered from extreme dehydration and malnutrition, but did not appear to have significant crushing injuries, doctors said.
Hide Caption 14 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster A 13-year-old girl is found in the Indian Ocean clinging to plane debris after the Yemenia Airways Airbus A310 from France crashed on June 1, 2009.
Bahia Bakari was the sole survivor of the crash.
She had been flying with her mother.
Hide Caption 15 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Naqsha Bibi, 40, is recovered alive from the debris of her collapsed home in Kashmir on December 12, 2005.
She reportedly survived on rainwater and rotting food for more than 60 days after an earthquake struck the region on October 8.
Hide Caption 16 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Rashida Farooq , a 45-year-old mother of three, is rescued from her home 105 hours after it collapsed in Muzaffarabad, Pakistan, on October 12, 2005.
The 7.6-magnitude earthquake that hit the country killed 80,000 people.
Hide Caption 17 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster A man identified as Jalil , 57, is rescued 13 days after an earthquake in Bam, Iran, on December 26, 2003.
He was trapped under a closet and must have had access to water, an Iranian doctor told Reuters.
Hide Caption 18 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster After being trapped for more than three days, nine miners are rescued from the Quecreek coal mine in Somerset, Pennsylvania, on July 28, 2002.
They were caught in a 4-foot-high chamber 240 feet underground after breaching a wall separating their mine from an older, flooded shaft on July 24.
Hide Caption 19 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Genelle Guzman-McMillan is rescued from the debris of the World Trade Center 26 hours after the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001.
She worked on the 64th floor of the north tower and was walking down a stairwell when the building collapsed.
Her body was protected in an air pocket.
Hide Caption 20 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Shiran Franco , a 9-year-old Israeli girl, is rescued on August 21,1999, around 100 hours after a building collapsed on her during an earthquake in Cinarcik, Turkey.
Her family had been on vacation.
Shiran's twin brother, father and grandparents were found dead, but her mother survived after pulling herself from the building after 30 hours.
Hide Caption 21 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Three infants are pulled alive from the crumbled Benito Juarez Hospital seven days after a powerful earthquake hit the Mexican capital on September 19, 1985.
With more than 10,000 people killed, the newborns became known as the " miracle babies " of Mexico City.
Hide Caption 22 of 23 Photos: Survivors: Stories of hope amid disaster Sixteen people are rescued 72 days after a Uruguayan Air Force plane crashed in the Andes Mountains on October 13, 1972.
They endured frigid temperatures and forced themselves to eat the flesh of dead friends to sustain themselves.
A dozen of the 45 passengers on board died in the crash.
Others later succumbed to their injuries.
Hide Caption 23 of 23

The woman was alive, but getting her out was a painstaking process.
Rescuers moved slowly to protect her and prevent further injury, Kenyan Red Cross official Anthony Mwangi said.
That's important, Gupta said.
Toxins can build up when limbs are compressed for a long time and muscles start to break down.
When the pressure is removed, toxins can flow rapidly through the body.
"When someone is trapped and they are pinned down, rescuing them is not as simple as pulling rubble off of them," Gupta said.
"You can find somebody, and they could be alive, and then they could die during the actual rescue if it's not done correctly."
A military team using specialized equipment detected breathing under the rubble and located 6-month-old Dealeryn Saisi Wasike.
A girl receives treatment after being rescued after 80 hours trapped in rubble in Nairobi, Kenya.
Her positioning apparently helped her survive the collapse.
Soldiers and EMTs quickly dug into the debris and found the child, who was wrapped in a light blue blanket, inside a bucket.
Nepal: Cries led soldiers to baby

The baby's eyes were tightly shut as soldiers pulled him from the rubble of his home and held him in the air.
Four-month-old Sonies Awal spent 22 hours buried after a 7.8 magnitude quake hit Nepal in 2015.
Soldiers had searched for him the night before but gave up after a few hours when they saw no sign of him.
The boy's father also began to lose hope of finding his son alive -- until, from under the rubble, he heard faint cries

The baby was covered in dust when rescuers pulled him to safety, but he was largely unharmed.
At the hospital, doctors said he had suffered minor bruising and a small cut on his thigh.
Nearly 9,000 people were killed in the quake and a 7.3 magnitude aftershock that followed.
JUST WATCHED Man, baby rescued from rubble in Nepal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Man, baby rescued from rubble in Nepal 02:48

Bangladesh: Seamstress becomes survivor

Reshma spent 17 days buried underground in pitch-black darkness after the factory where she worked collapsed, killing more than 1,000 people.
"I'd crawl, tire and sleep.
I would wake up and crawl again," the 19-year-old seamstress recounted, her voice barely audible, as she spoke to CNN from a hospital bed in 2013

"I told God, 'Take me, if that's your will.
If not, then save me.
But don't leave me here like this.'
"

JUST WATCHED Bangladesh survivor found in prayer room Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bangladesh survivor found in prayer room 02:21

Reshma said she survived on dry food and water that was tossed into the rubble in the first days after the collapse.
"I ate biscuits and water," she told rescuers, according to state media, "but the stock dwindled two days ago."
Her youth may have worked in her favor, Gupta said at the time

"The body can be very good at preserving itself."
Chile: 'We are fine in the shelter, the 33 of us'

The story of 33 miners trapped inside a Chilean mine and the harrowing efforts to rescue them drew global attention in 2010.
The collapse of the main ramp into the San Jose mine left the men trapped 2,300 feet underground.
For weeks afterward, rescuers weren't sure whether the miners had made it.
Then the men managed to send up a note saying they were alive.
Written in Spanish in red ink, the note said, "We are fine in the shelter, the 33 of us."
After 69 days and an underground rescue mission that cost up to $20 million, the 33 miners were freed.
Haiti: Pulled from market wreckage

Almost a month after a 7.0 magnitude quake hit Haiti in 2010, rescuers found 28-year-old Evan Muncie

At the time, his family told staff at a University of Miami field hospital that he was trapped in the wreckage of a market where he sold rice.
It is believed Muncie had some access to food and water, although details remain murky, Gupta said.
Muncie's story was one of countless tales of survival after the devastating quake, which killed hundreds of thousands of people

Another survivor story: a 4-month-old baby who spent four days alone in the rubble and was unconscious and extremely dehydrated.
No one knew if she would live or die.
In 2015, CNN spoke with the girl and her family from her new home in Miami about the miracles it took to save her life

JUST WATCHED Baby buried in Haiti quake: see her now Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Baby buried in Haiti quake: see her now 02:27

United States: Last person pulled from towers on 9/11

Rescuers found Genelle Guzman-McMillan 27 hours after the north tower of the World Trade Center in New York collapsed on top of her on September 11, 2001.
Guzman-McMillan, who was working for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey at the time, was buried with her head stuck between two concrete pillars and her right leg crushed.
She was the 20th survivor pulled from the rubble, the last one rescuers were able to save.
Genelle Guzman-McMillan survived for 27 hours in rubble after the World Trade Center attack.
"I thought I was going to die," she told CNN in 2006 .
"When I saw that it became dark and no one came, and I'm not hearing any noises, nobody around, I thought, I'm not going to make it.
I'm going to die here.
I'm going to see myself slowly dying."
But Guzman-McMillan made it out alive.
Story highlights Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner have one daughter, 6, and two sons, 3 and 1

Trump described her experience with postpartum depression as "a very challenging emotional time"

(CNN) Ivanka Trump, daughter of and senior adviser to President Donald Trump, revealed that she had postpartum depression after the births of her children in an interview for "The Dr. Oz Show."
The program, filmed Monday, will air Thursday.
Trump, 35, and her husband, Jared Kushner, 36, have three children: Arabella, 6, Joseph, 3, and Theodore, 1.
"With each of my three children, I had some level of postpartum depression," Trump said.
Symptoms of the condition, which affects some women after giving birth, can include extreme sadness and anxiety.
"It was a very challenging emotional time for me because I felt like I was not living up to my potential as a parent or as an entrepreneur and executive," Trump said.
"I had had such easy pregnancies that in some way, the juxtaposition hit me even harder."
When host Dr. Mehmet Oz asked, why talk about postpartum depression?
Trump laughed and said that she hadn't planned to discuss the topic until he asked.
Read More
(CNN) Too few new antibiotics are under development to combat the threat of multidrug-resistant infections, according to a new World Health Organization report published Tuesday.
Adding to the concern: It is likely that the speed of increasing resistance will outpace the slow drug development process.
As of May, a total of 51 antibiotics and 11 biologicals -- medical products often made from natural sources -- are being developed, the new report said.
"The idea is that biologicals could replace use of antibiotics, which could help in overcoming the resistance problem," Peter Beyer, an author of the report and senior adviser to the WHO's Department of Essential Medicines and Health Products, wrote in an email.
Seemingly, this large number of potential new drugs should suffice, yet it is not nearly enough.
First, just 33 of the antibiotics in the pipeline target priority pathogens.
This year, the WHO published a list of a dozen "priority pathogens" : 12 separate families of antibiotic-resistant bacteria that pose the greatest threat to human health.
Among the priority pathogens is a drug-resistant tuberculosis, which kills about 250,000 people around the world each year, and a variety of multidrug resistant strains -- Acinetobacter, Pseudomonas and various Enterobacteriaceae -- which are responsible for infections in hospitals and nursing homes and among patients whose care requires ventilators and catheters.
Of the 33 potential medicines for treating priority bug infections, only eight are innovative treatments.
The other 25 are simple modifications of existing families of antibiotics.
At best, then, the 25 will serve as short-term solutions since it is expected bacteria will quickly adapt to and resist these new (though somewhat familiar) drugs, according to the WHO.
"It is difficult to speculate why companies develop specific new medicines," Beyer noted.
"But in general many new treatments do not necessarily constitute advances over existing treatments."
TB infections require a combination of at least three antibiotics, according to the new report, yet only seven of the new TB medicines are even in clinical trials.
Soon, there will be a serious lack of treatment options for this infection, the report warns.
The same is true for gram-negative pathogens, which can cause severe, often deadly infections typically in hospitals and nursing homes.
Gram-negative bacteria have more complex cell walls than gram-positive, explained Beyer.
"In a nutshell, it is more complex to develop a novel antibiotic that can penetrate the complex gram-negative cell wall and stay inside the bacterium," he wrote.
Finally, the WHO sees too few oral antibiotics being developed.
These are necessary "to target the critical priority pathogens (and) be accessible in low- and middle-income countries," Beyer noted.
To address the problem of developing new antibiotics, the WHO and the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative set up the Global Antibiotic Research and Development Partnership.
However, new drugs alone cannot combat the threat of antimicrobial resistance.
The WHO is also working to improve infection prevention and control while developing guidance for the responsible use of antibiotics.
"Always seek medical advice before taking antibiotics and then always follow the advice of the health-care professional," Beyer noted.
The new report is a "fantastic (and very useful!)
summary" of the antibiotic situation, wrote Bill Hanage, an associate professor of epidemiology at Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, in an email.
Hanage, who has also published studies of antibiotic resistance, was not involved in the new report.
Although the risk of getting a completely resistant infection is low in the United States, about 2 million people each year become infected with "resistant enough" bacteria that are harder to treat, Hanage said.
And every year, more than 20,000 people die of these infections.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"More resistant infections don't just mean you or someone you care about is more likely to die from one, they also mean healthcare will get even more expensive," Hanage said.
"Many of the procedures we take for granted in medicine, from cancer treatments to surgeries, depend on our ability to handle infections that happen in the course of treatment."
The number of new drugs in development is simply not enough, he said.
"The great majority will not make it into the hands of doctors or your treatment," Hanage wrote.
"As the report states, for drugs to be used in humans they have to pass 3 hurdles, the phase 1, 2 and 3 trials.
Drugs entering that pipeline have just a 14% chance of getting all the way through to be used in humans."
(CNN) The torrential rains may have ended, yet many people in Texas, Florida and the Caribbean continue to feel the impact of hurricanes Harvey and Irma in unseen, dramatic ways.
"Unlike the physical damage which is all too obvious, the psychological toll will have effects that cascade over time," Dr. Octavio N. Martinez Jr., executive director of the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health at the University of Texas at Austin, wrote in an email.
Most of those affected by these intense storms are functioning as normal, with symptoms that may not seem very serious: anxiety, difficulty sleeping, sadness.
Most notice their symptoms yet accept them as part of the impact of the disaster.
"It is when these symptoms affect the person's ability to function when it becomes crucial to reach out for assistance," Martinez wrote.
After all, distress behaviors -- such as feelings of marginalization, increased smoking and alcohol use, and chronic irritability -- have a tendency to slip under the radar, he said.
The mental health impact of Hurricane Katrina offers a hint of what's to come for some survivors of the current storms, Martinez added.
Some mental health conditions became more prevalent over time for survivors of the hurricane that struck the Gulf Coast in 2005, according to a study published in the journal Nature.
Katrina and Sandy

For example, the prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi rose from 15% a few months after Katrina to 21% a year later, Martinez noted, based on the study.
PTSD is a mental health disorder that develops in some people who have experienced a shocking or dangerous event.
"And the percentage of people experiencing suicidal thoughts more than doubled from 2.8 percent to 6.4 percent," Martinez wrote.
Meanwhile, other studies have indicated that traumatic events during childhood can have a lasting life impact by increasing a child's future risk of smoking, using alcohol and substances, obesity, depression, heart disease, cancer and even early death.
"This will be especially relevant to children and youth who endured Hurricanes Harvey and Irma," Martinez said.
Rebecca M. Schwartz, an associate investigator at the Feinstein Institute for Medical Research in Manhasset, New York, looked at the mental health impact of Hurricane Sandy among adults living in some areas of Queens, Staten Island and Long Island.
The study included a simple 30-item survey with participants checking off whether they'd experienced damage to their homes, damage to their cars and displacement.
They also answered whether they felt their lives had been endangered or if a family member went missing.
"Basically, increased exposure to the hurricane -- the more events or the more things that happened to you during Hurricane Sandy -- the more likely you were to experience higher levels of depression symptoms, anxiety symptoms, perceived stress, and PTSD symptoms," Schwartz said.
Displacement, in particular, was linked to developing symptoms of PTSD, she said.
People who stayed at a temporary shelter, for example, were more at risk for PTSD than those who boarded with friends or family.
Sarah Lowe, an assistant professor of psychology at Montclair State University in New Jersey, has also investigated the psychological aftermath of natural disasters.
For one study of resilience , she and her colleagues interviewed survivors of Hurricane Katrina about their mental health, their social relationships, and how the hurricane contributed to changes in their lives one year, three years and 12 years later.
"The punch line is that most people are very resilient to disasters," Lowe said.
Personal resilience

"If you look a year out, there's only going to be a small percentage of survivors who meet criteria for mental disorders, such as PTSD and major depressive disorder," Lowe said.
Jeff Temple, a professor at University of Texas Medical Branch, said that in the immediate aftermath of a disaster, many people will experience symptoms, and yet their ranks dwindle as time passes.
"Right away, the first month, if the symptoms are to a high degree or worrisome, that's when we would diagnose acute stress disorder," he said.
And if the symptoms persist longer than a month, that's when PTSD might be diagnosed.
Jesse Cougle, associate professor of psychology at Florida State University, said Hurricane Irma did little damage to Tallahassee, where he teaches, compared with Miami and the Keys, and widespread evacuations in Florida served as a protective buffer.
The people who stayed and witnessed the destruction will probably experience worse mental health than those who evacuated, he said.
Still, it's possible, Cougle said, that even those who evacuated will experience symptoms in the days to come.
Finding a place to flee to in heavy traffic was highly stressful, and "negative life events can trigger these types of reactions," Cougle said.
"Of course, what makes hurricanes different than a lot of other traumatic events, too, is if your property is damaged," he said.
"A lot of people can become homeless, a lot of people can be thrown off from normal healthy routines they have, and there's just all this stress associated with repairing their house, repairing their property and just kind of adapting to all the problems."
Maryann Robinson, chief of emergency mental health and traumatic stress services branch at the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration , said that "when you go home and now you are actually faced with what has happened -- the devastation that has occurred in your home -- it really does re-traumatize the individual."
Still, Robinson said, "not everyone is going to need treatment.
Most people do pretty well on their own."
Some even find an unexpected silver lining in the storm clouds.
Post-traumatic growth

the storm in a separate Lowe, of Montclair State University, and her colleagues looked at patterns of distress one year pre-Katrina and again at both one year and three years afterthe storm in a separate study of the hurricane's effects.
"For about 5% of participants, their mental health actually improved," Lowe said.
"They had severe distress prior to the storm and then afterward were indistinguishable from people we would call resilient -- who maintain low levels of distress."
Another group also had severe distress prior to Katrina, but one and three years after the storm, they had lower levels than before the storm but only slightly elevated above average.
The trauma of a natural disaster, then, actually improved the mental health of some people -- a phenomenon Lowe calls post-traumatic growth.
The reasons are unclear.
"So maybe before the storm, they had experienced many stressful and traumatic life events -- such as childhood abuse, sexual abuse, intimate partner violence -- and the hurricane was the first time where they came in contact with mental health services where they could deal with pre-existing vulnerabilities," Lowe said.
For others, the displacement and subsequent relocation to new areas allowed them to "seize upon new opportunities, whether it be educational opportunities, employment or new opportunities for relationships," Lowe said.
Some said they were able to get away from problematic relationships by being in a new community, while for others, the displacement allowed their children to enroll in new, better-quality and more diverse schools.
Post-traumatic growth is "an intuitive phenomenon," Lowe said, in which some people find they've grown as a person "whether it be that they feel stronger, or they feel they can see new possibilities in their lives, or their relationships got better, or they have a stronger connection with God or spirituality."
Post-traumatic growth often walks hand-in-hand with symptoms of PTSD: The adults who grew most had some of the worst psychiatric responses, Lowe said.
Still, not all PTSD sufferers experienced growth.
Who is at risk?
Women are more vulnerable to PTSD than men after disasters, Lowe said.
"In general, people who have fewer resources -- so lower levels of social support, lower income -- tend to be more vulnerable," she said.
"As well as racial and ethnic minorities."
Robinson added that children and the elderly are also more vulnerable.
"Cumulative exposure also serves as a precursor" to PTSD, Robinson said, so people who have had past traumatic experiences will be more susceptible to stress.
Even first responders, who help others in dire circumstances, can succumb to symptoms of anxiety and depression after a natural disaster, Robinson said: "If you are not processing the things that you see in a very healthy way, you are at more risk for a long-term consequence."
Temple said that a lot of the mental health issues following a natural disaster stem from "direct exposure" to being in danger and seeing other people imperiled.
"So some of those at the epicenter of the disaster are certainly going to be the most vulnerable to mental health problems," Temple said.
However, people throughout the Houston area and even nationally felt distress just by seeing images from the 24/7 news cycle, he said.
Whether images of a disaster are viewed on social media or television, Temple said, it is usually those who have already experienced previous traumas who will succumb to distress.
As Martinez, of the Hogg Foundation for Mental Health, noted, "It's been said that time heals all wounds, but there's reason to doubt that truism."
What to do?
"There are resources for mental health support that we're encouraging people to use, and our organization has compiled a modest list of them ," Martinez noted.
"There is no silver bullet, but these are excellent places to start."
"Everybody feels sad at times, and that's normal but when you've been through a trauma.
It's OK to seek help," Schwartz said.
After Sandy, people who normally did not experience mental health difficulties were very quick to dismiss their symptoms, she said.
With a house needing repair, insurance papers to file, "they pushed their health and mental health to the back burner," she said.
"If you're feeling stressed, if you're feeling overwhelmed, the best thing you can do is to seek help.
If you do not, all the other things that need to be dealt with ... become impossible to do if you're depressed and anxious and suffering from PTSD symptoms," Schwartz said.
Even four years later, time had not dispelled the symptoms for some.
"We did see some amazing ... community work being done, where people were meeting in groups and sharing their experiences," Schwartz said.
Still, she advised professional help and said that mental health should be prioritized "just like you would any other aspect of recovering from these hurricanes."
Cougle said there are important things to do -- and not do -- to help the natural adaptive process or resilience possessed by most people.
"One is, realize that anxiety is just a normal response to the hurricane and having to evacuate and all the stress and uncertainty associated with that," Cougle said.
"It's the survival instinct.
It's not dangerous to feel anxious in that way."
Still, he added, people should "resist the urge to cope with or avoid anxiety with things like substance use.
"Social support is a pretty well-established buffer against the development of PTSD following a trauma," Cougle said.
Temple suggested "getting back to a normal routine.
Your brain is rewired, basically, when you experience this sort of traumatic event, so give yourself some semblance of what it used to be like and have some of that normal routine."
After a disaster, a rare few feel no anxiety and then worry about this reaction.
"It's OK to not have a reaction at all," Temple said, but it also "doesn't mean you're immune to later effects.
You can be perfectly fine and then a month later develop PTSD."
(Usually, PTSD develops within six months of a trauma.
With longer delays, doctors suspect the sufferer did not notice their symptoms.)
"So being continually on guard for changes -- changes in behavior, changes in mood -- both in yourself and friends and family members is good," Temple said.
Sleep and exercise

"We tell people to pay attention to your physical self," the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration's Robinson said, "so make sure you're getting enough sleep and you're resting."
It's important for survivors to guard their health by eating nutritious meals, exercising and avoiding "caffeine, tobacco, drugs and alcohol," she said.
"We tell people to move," Robinson said.
"It just may be walking around and taking deep breaths.
Taking deep breaths really does serve as a purging.
It helps to move stress out of the body."
Relaxing music can also help, she said.
Many people have mental health skills they developed when, say, a parent died or illness made an appearance, she said: In the aftermath of a natural disaster, you must bring to bear all the coping skills that helped you in the past.
She also suggests calling her agency's Disaster Distress Helpline at 800-985-5990

Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"We have crisis counselors that are manning the phone 24/7, seven days a week, 365 days a year, for those individuals who are experiencing stress, distress, emotional, anxiety and depression," Robinson said.
With responses translated into over 100 languages, anyone and everyone can call or text the disaster helpline.
A waiting counselor will offer tips for managing your mental health symptoms and steer you to available community resources, she said.
"Most of which people are not aware of," Robinson said, "because before a disaster occurs, they don't need them."
Allen Barron scrunches up his tiny face and wails as his mother gently tips him backward onto the lap of Jean Calvo, a pediatric dental resident at the University of California-San Francisco.
Allen's crying may be distressing, but his wide-open mouth allows Calvo to begin the exam.
She counts his baby teeth and checks for dental decay.
"Nothing I am going to do will hurt him," Calvo tells Allen's mother, Maritza Barron, who is holding her son's hands.
To some, the 20-month-old toddler may seem far too young for a dental exam.
In fact, he's on the late side, according to leading dental and pediatric professional associations

To stave off a lifetime of dental problems and make sure parents learn how to prevent children's tooth decay, babies should have their first exam when they get their first tooth, or no later than their 1st birthday, according to guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry.
However, many dentists are uncomfortable treating babies, and that has created a significant gap in dental care for infants and toddlers of all backgrounds, experts say.
The shortfall is hard to quantify because professional organizations, such as the American Dental Association, do not survey their members on whether they care for infants.
"People think that children are afraid of dentists, but really it's that dentists are afraid of children," said Pamela Alston, who is a dentist and dental director of the Oakland-based Eastmont Wellness Center, a publicly funded clinic that is part of the county-run Alameda Health System.
Hoping to narrow the gap in care, the public health agencies of San Francisco and Alameda counties are launching pilot programs to train dentists to treat babies.
About 70 dentists will learn over the next three years how to coax infants into cooperating and help parents guard against tooth decay.
The first training session in Alameda County is scheduled for early November; San Francisco will begin its training in January.
The American Dental Association was not aware of any similar programs in other states.
The guidelines calling for earlier dental visits stemmed from a growing awareness that cavity-causing bacteria can be passed from parents to babies , through shared utensils, for example.
Giving babies bottles of fruit juice or sugar water also can cause cavities.
Decay in baby teeth has been linked to adult tooth decay.
Ray Stewart, a pediatric dental professor at the University of California-San Francisco, examines Matthew Mai, 2, with the help of his parents, Sean and Tina Mai.
"By the time children are age 3, they are often so far down the road that prevention is no longer an option," said Ray Stewart, a pediatric dental professor at UCSF, who has treated infants for more than 15 years and is among the professionals enlisted by Alameda and San Francisco to train the dentists.
Dentists don't regard exams of very young children as a means of boosting their income, said Alicia Malaby, spokeswoman for the California Dental Association.
"Denti-Cal reimbursements are below actual costs for many procedures," she said.
Rather, they want to help "improve community health outcomes."
A portion of the revenue from California's new tobacco tax will be earmarked to help very young children from low-income families get the dental care they need.
The money will be used to give dentists a 40 percent increase on top of the standard reimbursement for services to Denti-Cal patients, including oral exams of children age 3 and under.
Denti-Cal provides dental care to beneficiaries of Medi-Cal, California's version of Medicaid.
Alameda County will offer dentists an extra $20, on top of that statewide increase for appointments with Denti-Cal-covered children that include a thorough exam of the baby's mouth, a fluoride varnish if needed, a talk with parents about prevention and a demonstration of how to brush their baby's teeth.
The Alameda and San Francisco training programs, funded by grants from Medi-Cal, could be replicated throughout California if they are successful, according to the Department of Health Care Services.
Maritza Barron came to UCSF after her own dentist -- despite the best of intentions -- was unable to examine her baby's mouth.
"He tried to say 'open up' to him but he wouldn't do it," Barron said of the failed attempt, which left her son in tears.
Communicating directly with children during dental exams can help reduce their stress, Ray Stewart says.
Alston, the Oakland dentist, once faced similar challenges treating very young children, but she has since undergone a transformation.
She blames dentists' wariness of young patients on a lack of experience.
When she graduated from dental school in 1982, she said, she had no training that prepared her to work with children younger than 6.
"I didn't feel like I could manage their behavior," Alston said.
Over time, however, it became increasingly clear to her that she wasn't seeing children early enough.
Almost all of the kids who came to her for their first dental visit at age 6 had mouths riddled with tooth decay, Alston said.
She had to refer them to specialists for treatment that required sedation.
She kept lowering the minimum age for a first visit in her practice, then left it at age 3 for a long time.
But even 3-year-olds were coming in with cavities.
Ultimately, she learned how to treat infants and toddlers through a program run by Alameda County's public health department -- not unlike the training to be offered by the new pilot programs.
Today, Alston is passionate about treating very young children and has lined up pediatricians to refer infants to her.
And she has revised her guidance on when kids should get their first oral exam, advising parents to bring their children in when their first tooth starts to erupt.
She also trains dental students to examine infants.
An important trick she teaches them is how to avoid being bitten: "Put your finger behind the last tooth!"
Communicating directly with children during dental exams can help reduce their stress, said both Alston and Stewart, the UCSF dental professor.
At a recent visit to UCSF's Pediatric Dentistry Faculty Clinic, 18-month-old Sebastian King scrutinized the dental mirror Stewart handed to him.
"That's what I'm going to put in your mouth to look at your teeth!"
Stewart told him exuberantly.
He asked the young boy to show him where his mouth was.
Sebastian smiled with delight as Stewart handed him a blue exam glove he'd blown up into a balloon, and the young boy remained calm throughout the exam.
Helping parents understand their role is also critical, dentists say.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
In addition to advising parents not to share eating utensils with their children, Stewart urges them not to let their kids fall asleep with a bottle of milk and to limit their consumption of fruit juice.
He also says they should wipe their infants' gums and teeth with a cloth after feeding them to remove residue that can cause cavities.
That's the message Calvo, the dental resident, gave to Barron, whose baby sat happily on his mother's lap after his exam.
The boy had cavities because he had been falling asleep with his bottle.
Barron said she recognized that weaning Allen from the bottle at night would be a challenge.
But "it's really logical," she told Calvo, adding that she was determined to give it a try.
(CNN) Opioid drugs -- including both legally prescribed painkillers such as oxycodone and hydrocodone, as well as illegal drugs such as heroin or illicit fentanyl -- are not only killing Americans, they are shortening their overall life spans.
Opioids take about 2 months off our lives, according to a new analysis published in the medical journal JAMA .
In 2015, American life expectancy dropped for the first time since 1993.
Public health officials have hypothesized that opioids reduced life expectancy for non-Hispanic white people in the United States from 2000 to 2014.
Researchers have now quantified how much opioids are shortening US life spans.
The researchers noted that the number of opioid overdose deaths are probably underestimated because of gaps in how death certificates are completed.
From 2000 to 2015, death rates due to heart disease, diabetes and other key causes declined, adding 2 years to US life expectancy.
But increases in deaths from Alzheimer's disease, suicide and other causes offset some of those gains.
On average, Americans can now expect to live 78.8 years , according to data from 2015, the most recent data available.
That's a statistically significant drop of 0.1 year, about a month, from the previous year.
Women can still expect to live longer than men -- 81.2 years vs. 76.3 years -- but both of those estimates were lower in 2015 than they were in 2014.
Life expectancy at age 65 remained the same in 2015.
Once you've reached that age, you can expect to live another 19.4 years.
Again, women fare slightly better: 20.6 years vs. 18 years for men.
Drug overdose deaths reach new highs

Drug overdose deaths are expected to continue to reach new record highs.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention expects drug overdose deaths to top 64,000 in 2016 when the numbers are finalized -- that's more than the number of American troops lost during the Vietnam War.
Most of these overdoses involved an opioid.
Since 1999, the number of opioid-related drug deaths has more than quadrupled.
While prescription opioids like oxycodone or hydrocodone were considered to be driving factors in the increasing rates of overdose in the early part of the 2000s, heroin and illicit fentanyl have become the drivers for opioid overdose deaths in recent years.
In fact, the number of overdose deaths related to fentanyl is expected to more than double, from an estimated 9,945 in 2016 to 20,145 in 2017, the CDC says .
For the first time, fentanyl will be the leading cause of opioid overdose.
'It's a national emergency'

On the heels of the release of a draft report of the President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, over the summer, President Donald Trump said "The opioid crisis is an emergency, and I am saying, officially, right now, it is an emergency.
It's a national emergency.
"We're going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis," he added.
"It is a serious problem the likes of which we have never had."
Yet, five weeks have passed since Trump's statement, and the White House has yet to make any sort of formal announcement of a national emergency.
In addition, this week, New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie, a Republican who chairs the drug addiction commission, posted a letter on the White House's website requesting an additional four weeks for the commission to complete its final report.
"In the interest of submitting ... sound recommendations, our research and policy development are still in progress," wrote Christie.
"Accordingly, and pursuant to the Executive Order establishing the Commission, we are seeking an additional four weeks to finalize our work."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Story highlights Ohio has seen an 11% increase in foster children since 2010 due to the opioid epidemic

Ava, 8, asked her incarcerated dad why he uses drugs

(CNN) It all started with pain killers after a dentist appointment.
Now, Drake, a 32-year-old from Columbus, Ohio has struggled with opioid abuse for more than a decade.
"I was just in disbelief," Drake's mother Carlene says, adding that she never thought her son would be a heroin addict.
CNN has chosen not to use last names to protect the family's privacy.
Drake's addiction makes life harder for his 8-year-old daughter, Ava.
Her mother is out of the picture, too, with a long arrest record herself -- so eventually Carlene took legal custody of her granddaughter.
"I knew she needed a stable environment, and that going into a foster care system (it) would be difficult to be able to see her parents, you know, as I've allowed her to see them."
As many children do when trying to cope with a parent's addiction, Ava tried to appeal directly to her dad for answers.
"So, first I asked, 'why do you take the drugs?'"
she said.
"And he says 'well I take them when I'm mad about something.'
And I'm like, 'what are you mad about?'
And he just doesn't tell me."
Ava hopes that there will soon be a turning point and her dad can come home from jail where he has been since April on charges of attempted theft.
"This is really, really getting to be a huge problem in my life because, you know, it's really weird to live with your grandma and not to live with your mom and dad, the people who made you," she said.
Read More
"Those refs are trash."
"I wish I never signed up for this."
Those were just some of the comments we got when we asked a group of elementary and middle school students to demonstrate bad sportsmanship.
If you've been around kids in an athletic setting, you no doubt have heard comments like those -- and plenty worse -- from bad sports.
Losing is not easy for many kids, and being a graceful winner can in some ways be even harder, so the question becomes: what can parents do to teach their children good sportsmanship?
Rule No.
1 seems simple enough but is too often overlooked by helicopter parents who are living vicariously through their children.
Parents should model the behavior they want to see in their kids, said John O'Sullivan, author of "Changing the Game: The Parent's Guide to Raising Happy, High Performing Athletes, and Giving Youth Sports Back to our Kids."
"Kids are not very good at listening, but they are fantastic at imitating," said O'Sullivan, founder of the Changing the Game Project , which says it seeks to "put the 'play' back in 'play ball.'
"

"And so if you want your kids to display good sportsmanship, you should.
If you don't want your kids to yell at referees, you shouldn't yell at referees."
O'Sullivan, a former college and professional soccer player, said that as he was coaching his 11-year-old daughter's soccer team recently, the opposing coach actually yelled to his players to try to hurt one of the girls O'Sullivan was coaching.
"I turned to him and said, 'Are you serious, man?
You're telling an 11-year-old girl to try to hurt another 11-year-old girl?
What is wrong with you?'
"

When we talked with kids themselves -- most of them students at Lincoln Elementary School in Caldwell, New Jersey -- as part of our "If I Were a Parent" video series, we got an earful about how parents are sometimes the worst sports of all.
"Sometimes, there's a parent that every single play, even when the other team's up by 30, it's like, 'why did you do that?'
from the stands, and they're not even the coaches," said Lance Jenkins, who began middle school in September.
Asked what impact parents who don't display good sportsmanship could have on their kids, Toniann Garruto, who is in the fifth grade, said the kids won't be good sports either, "because they'll say, 'Oh, my parents aren't good sports, so why do I have to be one?'
"

It's tough to know whether sportsmanship on the part of kids and parents has gotten worse from decades ago, but it's certainly gotten more public, O'Sullivan said.
"The bad behavior is more public, so every fight, every skirmish, every 'soccer moms gone crazy' is posted online ... so it certainly seems like it's gotten worse."
Add the trash-talking that is common in professional sports, and you have plenty of examples for kids today of how not to be.
"If you consider trash-talking your opponents poor sportsmanship -- I do -- then they're looking at their role models in sports doing it, and so they're feeling like, 'Well, they're doing it, so I should do it, right?'
" O'Sullivan said.
"It's up to parents and coaches to go out of their way to really address it.
'That's not what we do here.
I don't care what the other team's doing.
That's not what we do here.'
"

Casey Wescott, who is in the sixth grade, said that if he were a parent, he would try to focus on role models who are displaying good sportsmanship and show those examples to his child.
"You show him or her a video of that player being a good sport and (say), 'Don't you want to be like, let's say, Stephen Curry?
Don't you want to be like him?'
" Wescott said of the star player for the NBA's Golden State Warriors.
Grace Szostak, who is now in middle school, said that if she were a parent, she might read her kids some books with morals.
"A lot of children like to take after their favorite characters," she said, adding that she would show them television shows or YouTube videos with good morals, too.
One way to help a child learn how to lose and win is to keep games and competitions in perspective, said O'Sullivan, who has coached at every level from children to college.
Chances are that the score of any game your child plays this fall won't be remembered years from now, he said.
"When you go and ask athletes for scores from games ... they might remember a couple, but these early youth teams, in-town baseball games, they're not going to remember that, yet parents are starting fights and going to prison over a bad call by an umpire, and that's just insane."
To help your child cope with losing, don't get caught up in the moment, he said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
And as for teaching your child how to win and win gracefully, remind them how it felt when they were on the losing side.
"The biggest thing that I always say to my team when you're winning by a lot is, 'you know what, you've been on the other side of it where you've lost by a lot.
Do you remember how that felt?
So don't do anything that's going to make your opponent feel any worse right now,' " O'Sullivan said.
We, parents and children, tend to get all riled up and unsportsmanlike when we become focused on the outcome, he said.
When we're winning and the umpire makes a questionable call, we might be fine with it, but when we're down 1-0 and the umpire makes the same call, we freak out.
Instead of being outcome-focused, we should be process-focused with our kids, encouraging them to move on from every play and every game, O'Sullivan said.
"Oftentimes, our first question to our kids after a game is 'Did you win?'
Well, that puts all the focus on the outcome.
Not 'Did you enjoy yourself?
Did you learn a lot?
Was it a good game?'
Things like that, so change your first question."
Shortly after his father died of kidney cancer in 2010, his mother's beloved black Labrador retriever mix -- Mary Margaret, or Maggie -- was diagnosed with hemangiosarcoma , a rapidly growing tumor of the blood vessels.
Maggie had a history of health problems, and Owens' mother was distraught.
"That's not an uncommon scenario in veterinary medicine," said Owens, veterinarian and professor of clinical pathology in the School of Veterinary Medicine at the University of California, Davis.
"If you ask most veterinarians the hardest thing they do, it's telling the senior man or woman that comes in, having just lost a significant other or spouse or partner, that now their animal, their dog or cat or whatever their loved one is, now has a terrible disease as well," he said.
"Those conversations ... they just tear the heart out of you."
In the months leading up to his father's death and Maggie's diagnosis, Owens said, his mother was the primary caregiver for both her husband and her dog.
Watching the emotional toll that caregiving took on her was difficult.
"My mother would often have to take my father to the hospital.
They'd all load up in the car.
There would be the dog in the car, my dad in the car.
My mother would have to take my dad to the hospital down in Philadelphia, and then she'd take the dog to the veterinarian," Owens said.
"Caregiver burden is a real thing.
It's not an embarrassing thing.
There should be no stigma attached to it.
It's a normal part of loss and grief," he said, adding that such burden can affect the well-being of pet owners caring for an ailing animal.
Maggie, his mother's four-legged friend with white spots on her black paws, died soon after she was diagnosed with cancer, Owens said.
A new paper published in the journal Veterinary Record on Monday ties caregiver burden in pet owners to elevated stress and general symptoms of depression and anxiety, as well as poorer quality of life -- similar to the burdens of caring for a human loved one.
The findings are the first to show how providing daily care for a sick pet could affect a pet owner, said the paper's lead author, Mary Beth Spitznagel, associate professor of psychological sciences at Kent State University in Ohio.
JUST WATCHED Pet dialysis helps sick animals Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Pet dialysis helps sick animals 01:26

"It is important that we do not minimize what family caregivers are experiencing in human caregiving relationships.
I would not say that pet caregiving is the same, for example, as providing care for a parent with dementia or a spouse who has had a stroke," Spitznagel said.
"But pet caregiving in the context of a chronic or terminal disease is clearly stressful for the pet owner, and we can probably learn a lot about how to help people in this situation by looking at what helps reduce stress in human caregiving," she said.
Owens' mother died unexpectedly last year, he said.
As he reflects on her experiences as Maggie's caregiver, he hopes that her story -- and the new paper -- shed light not only on caregiver burden but on ways to help pet owners better manage caregiver challenges.
"My mother would be tickled pink to know that one of her stories could help anybody else," said Owens, who was not involved in the new paper.
The burden of caring for a sick pet

The paper involved 238 pet owners and their dogs or cats.
The researchers separated the owners, who were recruited through social media, into two groups: 119 with pets who were diagnosed with a chronic or terminal disease and 119 with healthy pets.
Then, through questionnaires and testing scales, the researchers measured each pet owner's level of caregiver burden, stress, depressive symptoms, anxiety and quality of life.
All of the questionnaires and measurement scales were borrowed from studies on human caregiving relationships, Spitznagel said.
The researchers also used a questionnaire to measure how well each pet owner adhered to his or her veterinarian's recommended regimen for caregiving.
The owners of healthy pets could respond with "not applicable" to some questions.
The researchers found that, overall, higher levels of caregiver burden and stress, greater symptoms of depression and anxiety, and lower quality of life were present in owners of sick animals than in those with healthy animals.
"I think down the road, this paper is going to turn out to be a landmark paper addressing the issue of caregiver burden in veterinarian medicine," Owens said.
However, the paper has some limitations, including that the participants were recruited online, that they were not tracked over a long period of time and that they were primarily white women of relatively high socioeconomic status, with an average age of 48.
More research is needed to measure caregiver burden among a more diverse group of pet owners, and "we need to do more research to determine how to best help pet caregivers," Spitznagel said.
Tips for pet caregivers

For pet owners who might be in a caregiving role and experiencing a burden, some of the same strategies often recommended to human caregivers could be helpful, said Richard Schulz, distinguished service professor of psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh, who was not involved in the new paper.
Strategies include "having a good understanding of the disease and its trajectory so that appropriate interventions and decisions can be made.
... Their vet could play a big role in this," said Schulz, who has studied human caregiving burden

Also, "making sure that they have the knowledge and skills to provide the needed care for their pet, including minimizing the suffering of their pet -- again, their vet would be key in providing this knowledge," he said.
"Getting emotional support from friends and relatives, and perhaps respite, if that is needed, (and) dealing with their depression, which might include getting professional help."
Schulz added, "The elephant in the room in comparing pet with human caregiving is that euthanasia is an accepted option with pets but not humans.
It would be fascinating to learn from pet owners how the euthanasia option affects them and how it impacts their caregiving experience."
Owens, whose mother was a caregiver for her husband and her dog, said it is important for caregivers to ask for help early on and to make time for things they enjoy while occasionally finding a sitter for their pet.
On the other hand, "many people are afraid that if 'I'm not there and something happens, then I wasn't there.'
I think in many ways, that's the greatest fear," he said.
As Owens reflected on the lives of his father, his mother and their black lab, Maggie, he said his family found peace at his mother's memorial last year.
Before her death, Owens' mother said she wanted her ashes mixed with those of her husband and Maggie and then spread into the ocean.
At her memorial, family and friends "each took a handful of sand and put them in with the ashes, and my sister and I took them out and cast them in the surf," Owens said.
He watched as the ashes sprinkled across the Atlantic Ocean, off the shore of Pawleys Island in South Carolina.
"In many ways, it was the perfect sort of closure for my sister and I, in terms of bringing everybody back together," he said.
All in all, as a society, humans have developed stronger bonds with their animal companions over time, said Bernard Rollin, distinguished professor of philosophy, biomedical sciences and animal sciences at Colorado State University.
For that reason, he wasn't surprised by the findings in the new paper.
'People need closeness.
They seek it in their pets'

Rollin, who was not involved in the new paper, remembers an incident when he was a young boy growing up in Brooklyn and saw one of his neighbors crying uncontrollably.
It was in the middle of the afternoon.
The woman ran out of her home in her bathrobe, holding her small Chihuahua in her arms, Rollin said.
The dog was dead.
"She was hysterical, yelling, 'First my mother and then you.'
I could see she was upset," Rollin said.
"But the interesting reaction was the neighbors.
If they said anything at all, they sort of tapped their heads in the sign of insanity, and the ones who did talk to her, they would say, 'It's just a dog.'
"

Nowadays, however, a grieving pet owner wouldn't receive that reaction, he said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"What's fascinating to me, in the time since I was a kid, how much people's relationships with companion animals has changed," said Rollin, an animal-welfare expert who was awarded last year's Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Research Ethics from the Public Responsibility in Medicine & Research.
"I have my own views as to why pets have become so important to people.
I think part of it is ... people are more distanced from other people," he said.
"It's the electronic fixes -- Facebook, email, text messages -- and so the result is inevitably a loss of intimacy," he said.
"People need closeness with other human beings, and failing that, they seek it in their pets."
(CNN) A coalition of 41 states' attorneys general have served five major opioid manufacturers with subpoenas seeking information about how these companies marketed and sold prescription opioids.
The coalition is also demanding documents and information related to distribution practices from three drug distributors.
The development was announced at a news conference by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, the first public announcement of subpoenas in this multistate effort.
The coalition was announced in June, with the aim of investigating what role these companies may have had in contributing to the United States' opioid epidemic.
Major opioid manufacturers and distributors investigated

The investigative subpoenas and document requests were served Monday to pharmaceutical manufacturers Endo International, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd./Cephalon Inc. and Allergan.
The group also served a supplemental investigative subpoena to Purdue Pharma.
Documents were also requested of three major pharmaceutical distributors: AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal Health and McKesson.
According to the Drug Channels Institute, a group that tracks the pharmaceutical industry, these three companies had more than $400 billion in revenue last year and manage about 90% of the country's national drug distribution.
The attorneys general are hoping to learn whether these companies may have marketed or distributed their products illegally.
'Prescription opioids are the on-ramp to addiction'

"Too often, prescription opioids are the on-ramp to addiction for millions of Americans," Schneiderman said.
He pointed out that according to the National Institutes of Health , about 80% of all new heroin users begin with using prescription opioids.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the number of fatal drug overdoses in 2016 was expected to top more than 64,000, more than the number of American troops lost in the Vietnam War .
Many of those deaths involve an opioid, either a legally prescribed narcotic or an illicit drug like heroin or fentanyl.
Drug overdoses are the leading cause of accidental death in the US, killing more people than guns or car accidents.
"The opioid crisis is an emergency, and I am saying, officially, right now, it is an emergency," President Trump said in August.
"It's a national emergency."
However, five weeks later, the administration has yet to make an official declaration about a national emergency on the opioid epidemic.
A number of states have filed their own lawsuits against pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors: Oklahoma, Missouri, Ohio, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Mexico and South Carolina.
None of these states is involved in the broader multistate investigation.
In addition, New York and Kentucky filed suits that have since been settled.
Companies respond

Allergan said Tuesday that "While we work proactively with (state attorneys general) offices to provide information, it is important to put into perspective Allergan's role regarding opioids.
Allergan's two branded opioid products -- Norco and Kadian -- account for less than 0.08% of all opioid products prescribed in 2016 in the U.S.
These products came to Allergan through legacy acquisitions and have not been promoted since 2012, in the case of Kadian, and since 2003, in the case of Norco."
AmerisourceBergen said that it "has taken extensive action to help ensure the safe and secure delivery of these drugs, including reporting suspicious orders to the Drug Enforcement Agency and stopping tens of thousands of suspicious orders from being shipped."
Cardinal Health said, "As a pharmaceutical distributor, we operate as part of a multi-faceted and highly regulated healthcare system.
We do not manufacture, promote or prescribe prescription medications to members of the public -- and believe everyone in that chain, including us, must do their part to address the current crisis."
Endo International said its policy is "not to comment on current litigation or investigations."
Janssen Pharmaceuticals said, "We have received and plan to address the request from the coalition of State Attorney Generals, and will continue to work with stakeholders to support solutions."
McKesson said it "agrees that the opioid epidemic is a national public health crisis and plans to cooperate fully with the investigation."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Purdue Pharma said, "We share the attorneys' general concern about the opioid crisis and we are cooperating with their request.
This is a multifaceted public health challenge, and we look forward to working collaboratively with government entities to be part of the solution."
Teva Pharmaceuticals said, "We are committed to working with the healthcare community, regulators and public officials to collaboratively find solutions."
Top Republicans added billions of extra dollars and eased coverage requirements to their effort to repeal the Obama health care law, as party leaders labored Monday to stave off defeat in a Senate showdown this week.
The updated measure would add $14.5 billion and mean added funds for states including Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Maine and Texas.
All are home to dissident senators whose support leaders need to push the measure through the narrowly divided Senate.
The revamped proposal gives states more freedom to charge higher premiums for older and seriously ill people and to sell skimpy, lower-cost policies.
The initial version, by GOP Sens.
Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and South Carolina's Lindsey Graham, required federal approval for such action.
It would also let states raise limits President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act has placed on consumers' out-of-pocket costs.
Such changes might appeal to conservative Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who said Sunday he didn't support the measure and said it needed added steps to drive down premiums.
The rewriting came as Republicans gird for a final, uphill push to deliver the party's long-time promise to obliterate Obama's 2010 law.
In an embarrassing crash, the Senate rejected three earlier versions this summer.
A vote must occur this week for Republicans to have any chance of prevailing with their narrow margin.
Next Sunday, protections expire against a Democratic filibuster, bill-killing delays that Republicans lack the votes to overcome.
The legislation would eliminate Obama's expansion of Medicaid and the subsidies the law provides millions of people to reduce their premiums and out of pocket costs.
Instead, block grants would be given to states with few strings on how the money would be spent.
GOP Sens.
Rand Paul of Kentucky and John McCain of Arizona have said they oppose the measure.
Susan Collins of Maine seems a near-certain opponent while Alaska's Lisa Murkowski is still undecided.
Republicans control the Senate 52-48 and can lose only two GOP senators and still prevail since all Democrats will vote "no."
Vice President Mike Pence would cast the tie-breaking vote to push the bill to passage.
Cassidy was scheduled to defend his bill at a hearing later Monday by the Senate Finance Committee.
Testifying against the measure will be Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, who's been diagnosed with kidney cancer.
The Congressional Budget Office was expected to release its analysis of the legislation early this week.
But the CBO, which is lawmakers' nonpartisan fiscal analyst, has said that it doesn't have time to determine the bill's impact on coverage and premiums, major factors for some lawmakers deciding their votes.
Instead, the office is expected to only detail its estimates of the measure's effect on federal deficits.
On Sunday, Collins said she was unhappy over the bill's cuts in the Medicaid program for low-income people and the likelihood that it would result in many losing health coverage and paying higher premiums.
"It's very difficult for me to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill," said Collins.
The conservative Cruz also voiced opposition, underscoring the bill's problems with both ends of the GOP spectrum.
"Right now, they don't have my vote," Cruz said at a festival in Austin, Texas.
Paul said even though the bill transforms federal health care dollars into block grants that states would control, the GOP bill left too much of that spending intact.
McCain has complained that Republicans should have worked with Democrats in reshaping the country's $3 trillion-a-year health care system and cited uncertainty over the bill's impact on consumers.
According to GOP figures, the legislation's grants would provide 14 percent more money for Arizona than under Obama's law; 4 percent more for Kentucky; 49 percent more for Texas; 3 percent more for Alaska and 43 percent more for Maine.
Some extra money is specifically directed at sparsely populated states.
The numbers are misleading, partly because they omit GOP Medicaid cuts from clamping per-person spending caps on the program, said Matt House, spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.
In a statement, Schumer said the measure would "throw our health insurance system into chaos."
Collins was on CBS' "Face the Nation" and CNN's "State of the Union," and Paul was on NBC's "Meet the Press.
Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey in Somerset, New Jersey, contributed to this report.
Kelly Kuhns rejected Down syndrome testing the first three times she got pregnant; the 36-year-old nurse from Ohio always knew she'd never terminate a pregnancy.
But after her third pregnancy ended in miscarriage, she decided with the fourth to take the test.
Her hope was to help doctors guide her to a healthy outcome.
What she got was a positive result for Down syndrome  and a barrage of disheartening counseling.
"They tell you of these horrific things that can happen, the different anomalies, cardiac issues," she said.
"So you plan for the worst, and I really feel like you're given a death sentence."
Kuhns went to her home in rural central Ohio that day and cried for hours.
But Oliver, her 2-year-old son with Down syndrome, ultimately has led "a pretty normal life."
That's why Kuhns is fighting for an Ohio bill that would ban abortions in cases where a pregnant woman has had a positive test result or prenatal diagnosis indicating Down syndrome.
Physicians convicted of performing an abortion under such circumstances could be charged with a fourth-degree felony, stripped of their medical license and held liable for legal damages.
The pregnant woman would face no criminal liability.
Several other states have considered similar measures, triggering emotional debate over women's rights, parental love, and the trust between doctor and patient.
The Ohio bill's chief Senate sponsor, Republican Sen. Frank LaRose, said GOP lawmakers accelerated the measure after hearing a mid-August CBS News report on Iceland's high rate of abortions in cases involving Down syndrome.
The report asserted Iceland had come close to "eradicating" such births.
Iceland is one of several European countries where Down syndrome diagnoses lead to abortion at least 90 percent of time.
Others include Denmark and Britain.
The rate in the United States is lower  probably between 67 and 85 percent, according to one of the most recent studies, a 2012 analysis in the journal Prenatal Diagnosis.
LaRose acknowledged the bill raises difficult questions, and he wants to kindle challenging conversations.
"Some of the sweetest, kindest people I know have Down syndrome," he said.
"It's just very unsettling for some of us that people in our society are going to make a decision that this life is worth something and this life is not worth something based on this genetic abnormality."
Dennis Sullivan, a physician and bioethicist at Cedarville University, calls it "a modern-day form of eugenics."
Kuhns, who opposes abortion in general, testified for the bill in the Legislature.
She got her son's Down syndrome diagnosis in December 2014, about 14 weeks into her pregnancy, and acknowledges a period of grieving over it.
But after delivering and parenting Oliver, she sees abortions based on such a diagnosis as a product of societal perfectionism that targets Down syndrome now, but perhaps other conditions later.
"We were told of all the different therapies he would need and all the additional work that would be involved," she testified.
"But we were never told how amazing our lives would be with Oliver in it.
Nobody told me my face would hurt from smiling at him."
Doctors and medical students are fighting the measure.
Parvaneh Nouri, a third-year medical student at Wright State University, told lawmakers it will do little to stop abortions but could stop information-sharing between patients and their doctors.
"It destroys the trust of our patients, for which we have worked tirelessly over generations of physicians to cultivate," she said.
The American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has expressed concern about various measures seeking to ban abortions based on a woman's motive for having one.
"These 'reason bans' represent gross interference in the patient-physician relationship, creating a system in which patients and physicians are forced to withhold information or outright lie in order to ensure access to care," said Dr. Mark DeFrancesco while serving as president of the congress last year.
Such measures, he said, might compel some women to resort to "desperate, dangerous means to end unwanted pregnancies."
According to the National Down Syndrome Society, about one in every 700 babies in the United States  or about 6,000 a year  is born with the condition, which results from a chromosomal irregularity.
People with Down syndrome have an increased risk for certain medical conditions such as congenital heart defects, respiratory and hearing problems, childhood leukemia and thyroid conditions.
However, their life expectancy has increased markedly, from 25 to 60 over the past 35 years.
Issues raised by bills in Ohio and elsewhere are so thorny that the Down Syndrome Society hasn't taken a formal position on them.
Instead, the organization advocates on behalf of people with Down syndrome, seeking to empower them with greater opportunities.
"We lose sight of the gifts that these people offer our country," said president Sara Hart Weir.
"We need to make sure they are given every single right."
Two states, Indiana and North Dakota, already have passed laws like the one pending in Ohio.
The Indiana measure, enacted in 2016, has been blocked by a federal judge, who ruled the state has no authority to limit a woman's reasons for ending a pregnancy.
An appeal by state officials is pending.
The 2013 North Dakota law has not been challenged.
The state's sole abortion clinic, in Fargo, says the issue hasn't arisen under its policy of not performing abortions after 16 weeks into a pregnancy.
In Oklahoma, a bill that would have prohibited abortions based on any genetic abnormality, including Down syndrome, cleared the House of Representatives on a 67-17 vote in March but never reached the Senate floor.
Opponents said the bill was unconstitutional and would cost the state in legal challenges.
Crary reported from New York.
The author of a new book argues that what you feed your gut, which he calls your "second brain," can have an effect on your mood, your weight and your immune system.
"The 'clever gut diet' basically is what I describe as a Mediterranean-style diet," Dr. Michael Mosley, author of "The Clever Gut Diet: How to Revolutionize Your Body From the Inside Out," told ABC News.
His diet includes staples such as fruits and vegetables, as well as dark chocolate, turmeric and fermented foods.
"Fermented foods are absolutely packed with good bacteria," Mosley said.
"So every single teaspoon of that stuff has got tens of billions of living bacteria."
Recommended fermented foods to add to your diet include kombucha, kefir, and "smelly cheeses," according to Mosley.
Mosley recommends thinking of your gut as a garden, where prebiotics and fiber act as a fertilizer.
The crop is the more than 20 trillion bacteria growing in your gut.
Prebiotics are "nondigestible carbohydrates that act as food for probiotics," according to Mayo Clinic, a health system with locations across the country.
"The number of microbes down there and the sort of shape that they are in largely depends on what you eat and what you drink," Mosley said.
"Because everything you don't digest, feeds them."
Mosley adds that many Americans have ruined their gut with junk food and excessive use of antibiotics, but he said new scientific research is looking at how a change in diet may be able to reprogram your physical and psychological well-being.
"Can we, for example, reduce anxiety and depression by giving people either different foods ... foods rich in fiber, or probiotics, or prebiotics?"
Mosley said.
While many questions still remain in the medical community about the connection between your gut and mind, some new studies indicate a link between the gut and immune system health.
"We do know anecdotally people who eat better and have healthier guts tend to get sicker less, they tend to have less systemic inflammation," Maya Feller, a New York-based registered dietitian, said on "Good Morning America."
"And they also have better weight management and also [are better at] being aware of [whether] theyre hungry or not."
Feller recommends people try to increase their intake of fiber.
Men should aim for 38 grams of fiber per day, while women should aim for 25 grams per day, she said.
On a daily basis, Feller advised adding vegetables to both breakfast and lunch and including non-starchy vegetables as three-quarters of your dinner plate.
"Any chance you get, snacks are vegetables," she said.
"You want to push the fiber in there at any opportunity."
The Latest on the Republican push on health care (all times local):

11:55 p.m.

Senate Republicans are adding billions of dollars to their teetering health care bill, hoping to win support from GOP senators who may be opposing the legislation.
According to documents obtained by The Associated Press, a new version of the measure would add $14.5 billion for states.
Part of that money is aimed at sparsely populated states.
Maine GOP Sen. Susan Collins on Sunday all but closed the door on supporting the bill, while Alaska Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski is undecided.
A table says Arizona would get 14 percent more money than under President Barack Obama's law, Kentucky 4 percent more and Texas 49 percent more.
John McCain of Arizona, Kentucky's Rand Paul and Texas' Ted Cruz have all expressed opposition to the bill.
Democrats say the numbers are misleading.
12:35 p.m.

Sen. Ted Cruz says he's against the Republican bill that would erase much of President Barack Obama's health law.
If the Texas Republican sticks to that stand, GOP leaders will have little hope that their 11th-hour Senate push will survive.
Cruz spokesman Phil Novack says the senator said Sunday in Austin, Texas, that "right now, they don't have my vote."
The bill would lose if three GOP senators vote "no" in a showdown this week.
Republican Sens.
John McCain of Arizona and Kentucky's Rand Paul say they oppose the bill.
GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine said Sunday it's "very difficult" to think she'd vote "yes."
Cruz says he doesn't think Utah GOP Sen. Mike Lee supports the measure.
A Lee aide did not immediately answer a request for comment.
11:10 a.m.

A White House adviser insists the Republican health care bill would protect people with pre-existing conditions.
That's despite the fact the bill would loosen the rules under the Obama health law  by giving states waivers that would let insurers charge more, or tailor benefits to discourage people with costly conditions from signing up.
White House legislative director Marc Short says Republicans plan a Senate vote, probably Wednesday, on the latest and last-ditch effort to undo the Affordable Care Act.
Short was interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press" and said  four separate times  the bill protects people with pre-existing conditions.
10:25 a.m.

Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina still thinks there's a path forward for a last-ditch effort to end "Obamacare," even after his friend, Sen. John McCain, said he opposes the bill.
Speaking on ABC's "This Week," Graham says Republicans are "moving forward" with a bill he co-sponsored with Illinois Sen. Bill Cassidy to dismantle the Affordable Care Act.
Republicans hold a 52-48 majority in the Senate and can only afford to lose two votes.
Graham mentioned Sens.
Susan Collins of Maine and Rand Paul of Kentucky.
Paul has said he's a "no" and Collins said on CNN Sunday she finds it "very difficult" to see herself backing the bill.
10:15 a.m.
The White House legislative director insists the latest bill to repeal former President Barack Obama's health care law is "not dead."
Marc Short acknowledges the last-ditch GOP bill remains short of the needed votes.
But Short says the White House is continuing its effort to win over "the last couple senators to get there."
He tells "Fox News Sunday" there might be small bill revisions to "refine the formula" deciding how much money goes to each of the 50 states.
The bill would establish block grants to states.
Republicans hold a 52-48 majority in the Senate and can only lose two votes.
Republican Sens.
Rand Paul and John McCain have said they would vote no.
Sen. Susan Collins on Sunday said she found it "very difficult" to envision backing the bill.
10 a.m.

Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky says he's unlikely to change his mind on the Republican health care bill in Congress.
The president's hoping Paul and Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski will swing behind the latest bill to undo "Obamacare" to save the bill in the Senate.
Paul says on NBC's "Meet the Press" that the bill wouldn't actually repeal the Affordable Care Act.
That's because it would replace major parts of the law with block grants for states to design their own programs.
Paul says the bill would keep most "Obamacare" spending and reshuffle the money into block grants that would set up "a perpetual food fight" among states over the formula.
He suggests he might be open to the bill if it just repeals the Obama health care law with a bill that doesn't create block grants.
9:26 a.m.

Republican Sen. Susan Collins says she finds it "very difficult" to envision backing the last-chance GOP bill that would repeal the Obama health care law.
Her likely opposition leaves the Republican drive to fulfill one of the party's chief campaign promises dangling by a thread.
The Maine moderate's comments on CNN's "State of the Union" leave her all but certain to join two GOP senators who've declared their opposition  Arizona's John McCain and Kentucky's Rand Paul.
Unless the White House and party leaders can persuade at least one of the three to come around, three GOP "no" votes will be enough to kill the legislation because all Senate Democrats oppose it.
The measure would repeal much of the Affordable Care Act and shift money and power to the states.
Republican opposition to the GOP health care bill swelled to near-fatal numbers Sunday as Sen. Susan Collins all but closed the door on supporting the last-ditch effort to scrap the Obama health care law and Sen. Ted Cruz said that "right now" he doesn't back it.
In a late bid to win votes and stave off defeat, Republicans were adding $14.5 billion to the measure for states, according to documents obtained late Sunday by The Associated Press.
White House legislative liaison Marc Short and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., one of the measure's sponsors, said Republicans would press ahead with a vote this week.
But the comments by Collins and Cruz left the Republican drive to uproot President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act dangling by an increasingly fraying thread.
A vote must occur this week for Republicans to prevail with their narrow Senate majority.
Next Sunday, protections expire against a Democratic filibuster, bill-killing delays that Republicans lack the votes to overcome.
President Donald Trump seemed to distance himself from the showdown, saying his "primary focus" was his party's drive to cut taxes.
"I don't know what they're doing," Trump told reporters about the bill's GOP opponents as he prepared to fly back to Washington after a weekend at his New Jersey golf club.
"But you know what?
Eventually we'll win, whether it's now or later."
Two GOP senators, Rand Paul of Kentucky and John McCain of Arizona, have already said they oppose the legislation.
All Democrats will vote against it.
"No" votes from three of the 52 GOP senators would kill the party's effort to deliver on its perennial vow to repeal "Obamacare" and would reprise the party's politically jarring failure to accomplish that this summer.
Collins cited the bill's cuts in the Medicaid program for low-income people and the likelihood that it would result in many losing health coverage and paying higher premiums.
The Maine moderate also criticized a provision letting states make it easier for insurers to raise premiums on people with pre-existing medical conditions.
"It's very difficult for me to envision a scenario where I would end up voting for this bill," said Collins.
The conservative Cruz also voiced opposition, underscoring the bill's problems with both ends of the GOP spectrum.
"Right now, they don't have my vote," Cruz said at a festival in Austin, Texas.
He suggested the measure doesn't do enough to reduce premiums by allowing insurers to sell less comprehensive coverage than Obama's law allows.
Cruz said he doesn't think fellow conservative Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, backs the GOP bill.
Lee spokesman Conn Carroll said Lee wants "technical changes" but hasn't finalized his position.
A chart Republicans circulated Sunday said the legislation's grants would provide 14 percent more for Arizona than under Obama's law, 4 percent more for Kentucky 49 percent more for Texas and 3 percent more for Alaska, home to home to undecided GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski, and Maine, home to Sen. Collins, would get 43 percent more."
Some extra money is specifically directed at sparsely populated states.
The numbers are misleading, partly because they omit GOP Medicaid cuts from clamping per-person spending caps on the program, said Matt House, spokesman for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.
In a statement, Schumer said the measure would "throw our health insurance system into chaos."
"We're moving forward and we'll see what happens next week," Graham said earlier Sunday.
Paul said even though the bill transforms federal health care dollars into block grants states would control, the GOP bill left too much of that spending intact.
"Block granting Obamacare doesn't make it go away," Paul said.
McCain has complained that Republicans should have worked with Democrats in reshaping the country's $3 trillion-a-year health care system and cited uncertainty over the bill's impact on consumers.
Murkowski has remained uncommitted, saying she's studying the bill's impact on Alaska.
Her state's officials released a report Friday citing "unique challenges" and deep cuts the measure would impose on the state.
She and Collins were the only Republicans who voted "no" on four pivotal votes on earlier versions of the GOP legislation in July.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., has said he intends to have a vote this week but has stopped short of firmly committing to it.
The White House's Short said he expects a vote Wednesday.
The bill would repeal much of the 2010 law, including its tax penalties on people who don't buy insurance and on larger employers not offering coverage to workers.
States could loosen coverage requirements under the law's mandates, including prohibiting insurers from charging seriously ill people higher premiums and letting them sell policies covering fewer services.
It would eliminate Obama's expansion of Medicaid and the subsidies the law provides millions of people to reduce their premiums and out of pocket costs, substituting block grants to states.
Collins was on CBS' "Face the Nation" and CNN's "State of the Union," Graham appeared on ABC's "This Week" and Paul was on NBC's "Meet the Press," and Short was on CBS, NBC and "Fox News Sunday."
Associated Press writer Catherine Lucey in Somerset, New Jersey, contributed to this report.
The Latest on the Republican effort to overhaul the Obama health law (all times local):

11 a.m.

A spokesman for Sen. Rand Paul says the Kentucky Republican remains opposed to the GOP bill repealing the Obama health care law.
Paul's opposition would almost certainly doom the measure.
Just three Republican opponents would kill the bill in the narrowly divided Senate.
Arizona GOP Sen. John McCain opposes the measure and Maine Republican Susan Collins seems almost sure to do so.
Alaska Republican Lisa Murkowski is undecided but voted against earlier versions this summer.
Spokesman Sergio Gor says Paul wants a "significant" reduction in the law's $1 trillion in spending, elimination of its coverage requirements and establishment of broad health plans consumers could join.
Gor calls meeting those demands "the only way" Paul votes yes.
Republicans have revised their bill in hopes of winning votes needed to avert defeat.
9:52 a.m.

Republicans have released a revised version of their legislation dismantling the Obama health care law.
It contains added money and newly eased coverage requirements aimed at winning over GOP senators whose opposition could well sink the bill.
The proposal would allow states to let insurers boost premiums on people with serious pre-existing medical conditions and on older customers.
They could also let insurers sell lower-cost policies covering fewer services than President Barack Obama's health care law requires.
The initial version of the Republican bill required states to get federal approval to make those changes.
The changes might help win over Texas GOP Sen. Ted Cruz, who said he wanted added steps to reduce premiums.
Sponsors say the measure adds money for states with dissident senators including Maine, Alaska and Kentucky.
4:18 a.m.

Top Republicans are adding money to their staggering effort to repeal the Obama health care law and say they're pushing toward a climactic Senate faceoff this week.
Yet their path to succeeding in their last-gasp effort has grown narrower, perhaps impossible.
GOP senators' opposition to their party's drive to scrap President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act swelled to lethal numbers Sunday.
Moderate Sen. Susan Collins all but closed the door on supporting the teetering bill and conservative Sen. Ted Cruz said that "right now" he doesn't back it.
President Donald Trump has pressed for a fresh vote, and White House legislative liaison Marc Short and Sen. Lindsey Graham, one of the measure's sponsors, said Republicans would move toward a vote this week.
Scores of sex offenders ordered to live on a secluded island in Washington state say the often cloudy, brown water there is making them sick, and records show the water system has been plagued by problems for more than a decade.
About 200 residents of the Special Commitment Center have filed a federal lawsuit alleging that the facility is violating their rights by forcing them to drink contaminated water that causes stomach pain and skin rashes and has been blamed for unexplained deaths.
The executive who oversees the center says the water turns brown periodically when the pipes are flushed, and he insists the cloudiness is only an aesthetic effect that causes no harm.
But an Associated Press review of state Department of Health records shows that the water has repeatedly exceeded standards for various chlorine-related chemicals and has been cited for violations dating back to 2006.
Health reports say the facility's water treatment plant has been "on the verge of failure" since 2013, and a former plant operator told health officials in 2015 that the water's cloudiness readings were being manipulated to make the water look cleaner than it was.
McManus, who has lived at the center southwest of Seattle since 2001, said his friends on McNeil Island in south Puget Sound have contracted diseases from the water and he has suffered ill effects such as developing hives after taking a shower.
"Just because we did a crime, doesn't mean we shouldn't have clean water," McManus said.
The Special Commitment Center is home to the state's worst sex offenders  those who have been deemed "sexually violent predators."
At the end of their prison sentences, the state convinced a judge that these inmates were too dangerous to be released, resulting in a civil commitment that requires them to undergo treatment that could someday make them safe enough to be released.
Some have lived there for many years.
The center consists of a half-dozen buildings encircling a grassy recreational area and surrounded by multiple rows of razor-wire fencing.
It holds about 225 men and one woman.
Another 20 residents live next door in transitional housing.
The drinking water, also used for laundry, cooking and brushing teeth, is pulled from the nearby Butterworth Reservoir before being sent to a treatment plant and a holding tank.
It then moves through corroded underground pipes to offices, housing units and a kitchen.
Health officials warned plant operators back in 2014 that they were not correctly measuring and reporting data used to verify the removal of potential pathogens.
At issue was the way they measured turbidity, or cloudiness, in the water.
Turbidity can cause health problems if bacteria, viruses and parasites attach to particles in the water, risking nausea, cramps, diarrhea and headaches, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
In early 2015, one of the treatment plant operators told the health department that he had "no confidence" that drinking water standards were being met when it came to turbidity.
Bill Platt said the system had been set up to create "a false reading for the record" and the actual levels were high.
Platt's concerns bothered him so much that he resigned, he said in a letter describing the suspect system.
Health officials investigated Platt's claims and told the plant operator in April 2015 that they questioned the "validity" of the plant monitoring and said the facility appeared to be "at the end of its useful life" and "vulnerable to treatment and equipment failures."
Those findings forced the Department of Corrections into an agreement with health officials in late 2015 to fix the problems or face penalties.
When some deadlines were not met, the agency asked for an extension to December 2017.
While giving a reporter a recent tour of the island, neither the center's chief executive nor Craig Mingay, an assistant attorney general who is handling the lawsuits filed by residents, said he knew anything about the agreement.
"I don't think there's any evidence that the water has caused a single case of illness out here," CEO Bill Van Hook said, adding that the water treatment plant "takes care of all of the health issues."
But when a corrections official gave health officials an update on the agreement last year, the official acknowledged that the water treatment plant's ability to maintain water quality was "in question."
He also said the dam holding the water in the reservoir was at risk of failure.
The Department of Corrections has asked the Legislature for money to replace pipes and drill test wells, but lawmakers have yet to approve any.
Calvin Malone, a resident leading the legal challenge, said the water contains high level of chemicals and fecal matter.
"None of the staff drinks the water here," Malone said.
"If the water was perfectly fine, why would they carry water from the mainland onto the site or use bottled water from the kitchen when the residents have to drink water from the pipes?"
Taunus Newton, a scheduling supervisor at the center, confirmed that he and other workers will not drink the water.
The chlorine-related chemicals that exceeded state and federal standards were trihalomethane and heloacetic acid, which are "disinfection byproducts" that result from an interaction between chlorine and organic material.
The EPA says a person drinking water contaminated with these chemicals over many years could suffer liver or kidney problems or be at risk for cancer.
The residents allege in their lawsuit that there have been several unexplained deaths or cancer-related deaths since the center opened and a high cancer rate among the population.
But their complaint does not cite specific examples.
The original federal lawsuit was filed by resident James Edward Jones in 2014.
He claimed the water had floating debris and caused severe stomach cramps, vomiting and other digestive problems.
The state responded by saying testing in accordance with state and federal regulations showed that the water was safe.
A federal judge dismissed Jones' case, but an appeals court sent the case back.
When Jones died in November, Malone took over the case.
Twenty-seven residents joined him in the complaint, and that list grew to 195 by May.
They moved forward without a lawyer until the judge appointed one Sept. 8.
If the water stains clothes and has high levels of chemicals, Malone said, "it cannot be good for anyone."
The cleanup of a northwest Montana community where health professionals say hundreds of people have been killed by asbestos exposure entered a new phase Thursday as officials turn their focus to keeping residents safe over the long term.
The five-member Libby Asbestos Superfund Advisory Team met for the first time after being established by the Montana Legislature earlier this year.
The advisory team of state and local officials and one citizen selected by Montana Gov.
Steve Bullock will work with environmental agencies to come up with ways to prevent further exposure to asbestos that remains beneath the soil and in the walls of many houses in the small towns of Libby and Troy.
The contaminated material can cause fatal lung diseases and other health issues.
It came from a W.R. Grace and Co. vermiculite mine that operated for decades just outside Libby, a town of about 2,700 people near the Idaho border.
Since 1999, a cleanup by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has removed more than a million cubic yards of dirt and building materials from almost 2,500 properties in the area.
That work  conducted under the agency's Superfund program for the cleanup of highly contaminated sites  is expected to be largely finished by next summer, EPA spokeswoman Lisa McClain-Vanderpool said Thursday.
The price tag for the cleanup reached $575 million last year, she said.
As the EPA gets ready to take much of the area off the Superfund list, state and local agencies must come up with ways to handle future asbestos discoveries, such as when a house is renovated or an underground vermiculite deposit is found during excavation work.
Thursday's discussion among advisory team members centered on the hiring of a "superfund liaison" to help steer the state's efforts.
Montana Department of Environmental Quality Director Tom Livers said the liaison would need communication and crisis management skills along with technical knowledge about the cleanup process.
"We're looking for a skill set you don't always find in one person," he said.
Money potentially available for future operation and maintenance of the cleanup includes $11 million in EPA funds and $5.2 million in state funds that came from settlements in W.R. Grace's bankruptcy case, said DEQ spokeswoman Karen Ogden.
There's been no attempt to quantify how much asbestos will remain when the cleanup is finished.
Health workers have estimated that as many as 400 people have died and almost 3,000 have been sickened from exposure in Libby and the surrounding area.
The W.R. Grace mine was shuttered in 1990.
The company agreed in a 2008 settlement to pay the EPA $250 million for cleanup work.
There is not yet a cleanup plan for the highly-contaminated mine site and surrounding portions of the Kootenai National Forest  a nearly 16-square mile (41-sq.
kilometer) area that also includes some state and private land.
Public health authorities on Tuesday declared an outbreak of the highly contagious liver disease hepatitis A in Los Angeles County, the third California region to see significant infections this year.
Health officials reported the outbreak to the county Board of Supervisors, which requested a briefing due to the proximity of LA to San Diego, which has had more than 420 cases and 16 deaths since early this year.
The Los Angeles County outbreak was declared because two of 10 confirmed cases could not be traced back to either San Diego or to Santa Cruz County, some 300 miles (480 kilometers) to the north, where there have been 69 hepatitis A cases since April, the Department of Public Health said.
The two apparently locally acquired infections were the most recent.
"We've met the definition for an outbreak," department Director Barbara Ferrer told the board.
"As of this morning we've confirmed that we have two community acquired cases."
Of the other cases, four had been in San Diego and one had been in Santa Cruz during their exposure period.
Three secondary cases occurred in a health care facility in Los Angeles County.
Most of those infected in the outbreaks have been homeless or using illicit drugs.
Several people who provide services to the homeless have also been infected.
Los Angeles County Interim Health Officer Dr. Jeffrey Gunzenhauser said vaccination is the best protection against hepatitis A and outreach teams and clinics are offering free vaccine to the homeless, active drug users and people who work with those groups.
The homeless are considered at high risk for infection because of poor sanitation.
The latest annual tally found nearly 59,000 homeless people in the nation's most populous county.
Hepatatis A spreads when someone comes in contact with an infected person's feces, sometimes when hands are not properly washed after going to the bathroom or changing diapers and the virus is then spread through food or objects.
It can also be spread through sex or by sharing drug paraphernalia.
Health officials say the incubation period ranges from 15 to 50 days, and symptoms include fever, malaise, dark urine, anorexia, nausea and abdominal discomfort, followed by jaundice.
In addition to vaccination and thorough hand washing, medical experts said people should avoid sex with anyone who has hepatitis A, and not share food, drinks, cigarettes, towels, toothbrushes or eating utensils.
The Food and Drug Administration issued new warnings Wednesday about the dangers of combining medication for opioid addiction with anti-anxiety medicines and other drugs that also slow breathing and brain activity.
The FDA warned that mixing such drugs can cause difficulty breathing, coma or death, so it should be done with caution.
The agency said a growing number of people fighting opioid addiction with methadone or buprenorphine also take other prescription drugs that slow action of the central nervous system.
The warning lists several dozen brand-name and generic drugs that could be risky, including Ambien and Lunesta for insomnia, Valium and Xanax for anxiety, muscle relaxers Soma and Zanaflex and antipsychotic drugs Abilify, Invega, Saphris and others.
The agency stressed that treating opioid addiction with medication can outweigh those risks and is crucial to curbing the U.S. opioid epidemic, along with counseling, rehabilitation and other support.
"Careful management of the patient and coordination of care is recommended," rather than denying use of methadone or buprenorphine, FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb wrote in a statement issued with the warning.
The FDA recommends that doctors develop detailed treatment plans, warn patients on addiction treatments about the dangers of taking multiple drugs that depress brain activity, try tapering them off those other drugs and monitor them with blood and urine testing.
Buprenorphine and methadone work by binding to the same brain areas as opioids, reducing cravings and withdrawal without producing a high.
The FDA is requiring makers of those two medications to update their package inserts with information about the risks of using them with other drugs.
Follow Linda A. Johnson at https://twitter.com/LindaJonPharma
President Donald Trump said Wednesday the Republicans' last-resort "Obamacare" repeal effort remains two or three votes short, forecasting days of furious lobbying ahead with a crucial deadline looming next week.
The legislation by Sens.
Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina would repeal major pillars of former President Barack Obama's health law, replacing them with block grants to states to design their own health care programs.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is trying to round up 50 votes to pass the legislation before Sept. 30, when special rules preventing a Democratic filibuster will expire.
"We think this has a very good chance, Obamacare is only getting worse," Trump told reporters covering the U.N. General Assembly meeting in New York.
"At some point the Senate is going to be forced to make a deal."
By his reckoning, "we're at 47 or 48 already, senators, and a lot of others are looking at it very positively."
Trump's comments came several hours after McConnell's office announced that the majority leader's "intention" is to bring the legislation to the Senate floor next week, a question McConnell was noncommittal on a day earlier.
After the embarrassing defeat of an earlier repeal bill in July, some Republicans believe McConnell would bring a bill to the floor only with the votes in hand.
In a Senate split 52-48 between Republicans and Democrats, McConnell has little room for error.
GOP Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky has already announced his opposition, saying the bill doesn't do enough to repeal "Obamacare," while moderate Republican Sen. Susan Collins of Maine is also seen as a likely "no" vote.
With Democrats unanimously opposed, McConnell cannot afford to lose even one more Republican senator.
The focus is on Sens.
John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, both of whom opposed earlier versions of repeal legislation.
This time may be McCain because his closest friend in the Senate, Graham, is a co-author of the bill.
One leading Republican, Chuck Grassley of Iowa, voiced pessimism Wednesday in a phone interview with home-state reporters, saying glumly: "I think we're one or two votes short and I don't see those other votes coming and I hope I'm wrong."
Trump touched on one of the most contentious aspects of the bill in a tweet Wednesday night, asserting: "I would not sign Graham-Cassidy if it did not include coverage of pre-existing conditions.
It does!
A great Bill.
Repeal & Replace."
Whether it truly does protect people with pre-existing health problems is fiercely under debate.
Later Wednesday, Trump tweeted, "Senator (Doctor) Bill Cassidy is a class act who really cares about people and their Health(care), he doesn't lie - just wants to help people!"
Cassidy defended the health care bill against criticism from late-night TV host Jimmy Kimmel, who jumped into the debate after his son was born with a congenital heart defect in April.
"I am sorry he does not understand," Cassidy said of Kimmel on CNN, arguing that his bill would in fact protect people with pre-existing conditions, a claim that leading health advocacy groups dispute.
"I think the price will actually be lower."
"This guy Bill Cassidy just lied right to my face," Kimmel said on his ABC show Tuesday night, referring to Cassidy's promises to Kimmel and others that his health bill would pass the "Jimmy Kimmel test."
Cassidy coined the phrase to mean that people with pre-existing conditions would have protections and not face lifetime caps on coverage from insurers.
"We can't let 'em do this, to our children and our senior citizens and our veterans, or to any of us," said Kimmel.
Under Cassidy's legislation states would have wide latitude in creating their own health systems and requirements, and would be able to seek waivers from certain mandates including those related to coverage for people with pre-existing conditions.
The bill does say that coverage must remain "adequate and affordable" for those with pre-existing conditions.
But because those terms are not defined, critics fear that insurers could jack up prices beyond many people's ability to pay.
The AARP and the American Medical Association are among those arguing against the bill, along with a bipartisan group of governors, including Alaska's Bill Walker, an independent.
New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie, a Trump ally during the campaign, said Wednesday he opposes the bill.
In its letter of opposition, the AMA wrote that the bill "does not take steps toward coverage and access for all Americans, and while insurers are still required to offer coverage to patients with pre-existing conditions, allowing states to get waivers to vary premiums based on health status would allow insurers to charge unaffordable premiums based on those pre-existing conditions."
Cassidy disputed such analyses, saying they come from "those who wish to preserve Obamacare, and they are doing everything they can to discredit the alternative."
If the bill does pass, Speaker Paul Ryan will try to move it through the House as-is, and straight to the president's desk.
Yet success would hold uncertain political consequences as the legislation's unpredictable ramifications, certain to be harmful for some, unfurl over the years.
Democrats made their opposition clear.
"This is really a stinkeroo, this bill," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi told reporters Wednesday.
Associated Press writers Alan Fram and Matthew Daly in Washington and Scott McFetridge in Des Moines, Iowa, contributed to this report.
Transcript for What to know about the new 'clever gut diet'

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
{"id":50071420,"title":"GOP releases new version of health care bill","duration":"1:08","description":"The new version of the Graham-Cassidy bill aims to sweeten the deal for Sens.
Susan Collins of Maine, and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, whose support is crucial to the legislation's survival.
","url":"/GMA/video/gop-releases-version-health-care-bill-50071420","section":"GMA","mediaType":"default"}
Transcript for Kaiser Permanente CEO has faith Congress can improve Affordable Care

of you.
Let's turn to before nard J. Tyson, chair and CEO of Kaiser permanente.
Good morning.
You just heard the senators.
They are not going to say this bill is going down.
But it is on life support, if anything.
You're CEO of a nonprofit health system that sevens almost 12 million Americans.
Where do we go here?
P I think prior to this bill being proposed, there was a bipartisan committee looking at what it takes to stabilize the affordable care act.
I met with senators.
I testified.
I believe they're on the right track to come up with few answers that will help to stabilize the current law.
What is the single most important thing congress can do the stabilize the law?
Reach a consensus to stabilize and create a more come pet tiff marketplace.
One is the cost re -- sharinging reduction the csc.
You have probably heard a lot about.
It needs to be funded.
Number two is to provide the state with additional flexibility while maintaining guidelines at the federal level.
You have spoken to the president.
You testified before congress.
You do seem to have faith they can work this out somehow eventually.
Absolutely.
I mean, the affordable care act is not perfect.
It is moving in the right direction.
This is about providing coverage for the all miles an hours of the American health care system.
We have 20-plus million more covered because of the ACA.
It's the ig best piece of law passed for health care since medicare and medicaid of 1965.
It took years for those programs to be stabilized.
It will take years for this to be stabilized.
There's a few things that could happen to create the competitive marketplace.
To get the insurance, other insurance companies back into the market if the they did a couple of things to the existing law.
Quickly.
Your reaction to what the senator said about their bill with pre-existing conditions and adequate and affordable.
Prior to the ACA, insurance companies could exclude people who have pre-existing conditions.
And/or, if they provided coverage, it was so expensive.
One important point that was made this morning that I want everybody to pay attention to.
There's a difference between having access to coverage versus access to care.
So, one might be able to afford access to coverage.
But with the deductibles and all the additional costs to access care, that person could have coverage but still can't afford to get the care.
The affordable care act was intended to bridge the gap between those two issues that happens inside of the industry.
Thank you so much for joining us this morning, Mr. Tyson.
We appreciate your point of view.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Real Live:' Study finds link between youth head trauma and long-term brain issues

CT.
Which we're we're getting excited to sports guys in here you know.
But Jones and write a very divisive topic indeed.
For years you know there's been reports.
Just actual players.
Just having this disease which is just hearing crop you know cross the spore and families in an ex players.
And hand the latest person to usually diagnosed at posthumously so that's the trouble with CTE an air and this is the lack as the latest.
Full war.
That's crazy first of all reactions someone so young having disease.
And then what does it mean with someone who was convicted of murder in jail for life of his own life late.
Does that factor as far as motives and things like that.
I think resident at the guidance it CT and I think football is always this article offseason is in this currency's.
Gains.
Happen as it should.
Because and it the policies in the most viewers are watching that's where one time of these cultural conversations about how the players is as you mentioned your right allotment IKEA highest category category three ETE is one more category it's hard and that.
Activities happening.
With cemeteries are saying is that OC TV creates depression.
Paulson this as are wondering clay into him committing suicide.
We get to determine whether an evening to do with the homicide that was created when he was three hammers he created.
But there is that meets at art snared.
But what's more confusing two incidents like we're going to go on as a nation in terms partly teacher youth.
Rain and then who encouraged him to stay in football or opt out of football I think that conversation that's.
It's there's two points who you had a really great description so what we're gonna do with actually through it's a clip doctor Jennifer and Ashton.
Without it there Joe Brown her hair indicated.
It has a really good this description of what this isn't what this diseases and how you get a sense I want order Roloson you can understand more and layman's terms.
For sure annually for members CT neuro degenerative brain disorder caused by repeated head trauma.
Causing symptoms of memory loss aggression depression in some cases suicidal behavior.
We can only diagnosed this on autopsy now there is no screening test yet for this just recently speaks study in JAMA out in July.
Found evidence of CT in 199%.
Of deceased NFL players' brains now there could be bias involved there because those players may have been having symptoms.
Therefore more likely to donate their brains for study.
And again there could be other factors involved in terms of the pathology of CT we're just at the beginning of understanding.
So that was this morning and GMA.
As as we mentioned before it's it's only can only diagnosis afterwards I think we've.
Hopefully in the were missing concussion I learned a lot from that LaBeouf and read surged.
It's just leave things be a very.
Large growing stain on the national football.
And what will do moving forward with this beloved game that essentially anyone aligns movies like.
It's Sunday today of the week that's churches but now the national football the islands that are in this.
With this you know prevalent disease that doesn't seem to be anywhere around you know I think the speed the strait the size of of the players hitting each other there's no turning back.
They're not gonna stop being you know big and fast and stronger can this take down institution.
Like the NFL.
By may be making people less congested because of what it's doing to people.
I think that was the discussion acting.
A rose while Allen prior to this but during the afternoon session came out people are just like you know.
That in do when it wasn't rated movie but it didn't think it.
You can rent and there.
But I think a lot of Chris eight to collect mrs. criticism for her.
Quote quote taking down and that what he just not ready for a lot of people despite you know obviously you evidence it would have been cases people have.
Issues when it anything at targets it's obvious that now.
An interesting bit to can't literally picking up on as a result the conversation at rock and questions.
The NFL Rothman never came out and said that there is at times we CTE.
And it though player until very recently.
Once they can they always thought they said this is true this is admit there is Portland's I don't institutions years ago I mean really funny because they know.
You could see how much this is going to effect.
The fabric of this game you.
It effects of fabric the decision saying with monster pipeline you rob is a point we talked about you know Sunday is not reserved for football there is is gladiator.
You know kinda essence around football that that's for the fans like Wright would get those big hits.
It's those big plays kind of sit back and accountant Sunday Eagles blow right anyway for the hide it with a Monday morning zeal is B kit that's the keep us engage it its that of a play where there's not a lot of big hits going we said against getting boring it is not athletic play for guys are catching that the full body pat.
Had a helmet.
About one of those two things we say the game is getting bored.
Tipped to be there at NFL they army get some change in terms of height and tackle hike in his high protect the quarterbacks is different things at play when it comes of that.
Nothing that Pope walked that a Palestinian long term they're thinking.
Do parents opt out there tutoring playing football and how that affect their pipeline going forward if they're sorry to do you.
Flag football is that tackle football are high that affect them mature into the sport themselves.
How that affected circulation to college within its relations and it now so the and it was really taken big interest into the pop Warner aspect because with.
Reported saying is that.
It's really between the age of ten and twelve.
That it's out of my elected I have long term acts being pre can cost if you will by having so much it hit combat that.
Do you feel comfortable and in.
And it will in Nazi little children and an unknown that's not another sort of it and I Q would you let your kids play football.
I you.
That would actually V that would let them at the seriously consider an output boxing in the areas you know alliance context was here with Regis.
Attacking some money but that's part of the sport it's.
This is Jon Robin as a.
Good question actually act and I would say yes that I would cut.
And the reason why I will be one those fathers will be advocate on this island to make sure.
That might shoot my child's teen had adequate sports trainer had most advanced equipment that it's possible but happened doctors physicians on hand.
But then that kind of goes to where we are with class right right into the classes them.
Great school districts with.
To financial support our it would so for those trainers doctors physicians on hand it.
Where those who come from more rural more urban community that it had the budgeting where cover that.
Are less protected the.
Because they don't have a doctors they don't have it right into acting which house NFL.
To partner in war with the district that don't have great financial support and backing for their head athletic teams to ensure.
That those students are covered too as well to protect the future other pipeline as they want either a become fans of and if not watch every Sunday.
Or B become players.
The only time that might yet the much what we think about the trend lately it young players union that gore Chris Portland.
Myron Rolle was one and I looked at today Rhodes scholar and stay on the gators.
Lol whatever I had.
You know what's ox Thursday.
With a crack but it's used out of the candles while I have I have.
All these guys either had a very short apple career walked away you know it's not worth.
Born in in the case several teachers like you know what on these study these things like basic Indian nearer surged one day.
And in obviously easily can it if he was drafted yet but this.
What does that mean for the fans for fell four.
And the setting a trend and and in the taking the others equally blame does that kind of raise awareness.
About.
Raise awareness of it so when you have players like that Hussein.
I'm not leave well currently.
Roberts to other careers in particular to do research to study on.
Only heighten awareness.
I'm shot David and and is that in this scene native technology that we had that war has been done to create more advanced helmets systems and that's protect players.
I find that very shocking I'm curious what.
It does position is more resistant down my take is it baby into tumor research and UREDE.
It made even more that mission that there is issue a problem with individuals like being cots.
I don't think that the divisions.
Planes were just yet because.
It is for some people great way to make money right so when you're that young agent part one high school.
Several of their lives and dosage which every talking about from the class right and sometimes the way out.
Is sports the way out is entertainment to be an actor to be NC eager to be a reformer that's the way of making it.
Where others can see education as option and that's how they can opt out and it now.
We're so of his road scholar where sound educated main priorities I think that's where the rubber meets the road.
And that's what we have to go conversation as Americans with the values on it what when basics were rocketing and NCAA athletes be paid because.
That's radicals and stolen credit an underdog of August I had been both of legal system opting out at play and about opting in for financial gain from long urged.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Learn to cook healthier with sugar alternatives

And they went on moment yet now we're here today with Whitney call Biron taking me thinking that so much for joining that they are personal trainers fitness expert in marina Delray.
And back healthy living here is out and this summer officially the last day.
I'm now but we're going to be talking stood there and have a great at the building into the awful late I think it'll way.
I think.
I guess we're going right there have to be famous moment.
Isn't about he let's talk a little bit upset that you want to avoid profit should.
That's meaningful to you regularly certainly.
We try to quit but that shouldn't much as we can.
Perhaps there and it it did happen but we were just talking about something evil type trouble.
Certainly about a hundred years ago before we have all this process food at the bulk of our.
And think about his cooking a home cooked meal every single meal breakfast went to dinner that have been happening more fun being here to go before had a lot of processed food.
People are getting only about fifteen grams of sugar a day.
From their efforts from their vegetables.
Then ended ended ended ended up our bar has been raised for what we take this week so they started putting its only other things along with a lot of filler since that the we keeper hate.
Moore fitted them with five more absolutely Smart manufactures could not healthy but.
Mark from their perspective yet and now we're getting about a hundred in eleven.
Saturday.
Sugar lifting that increased its in the products we find this yet.
There yet but Burton's Alice doesn't really taste sweets as much as they should I mean they are meeting a huge amount of him but wow look at that sweep the average salad dressings but.
But heat when he and the Fed minutes which is to table pretty certain.
Though it's important to look at here ingredient than he but put in your thing it's just Cynthia McKinney a year in taking.
And now looking wanted to avoid processed sugar which he both dale so let's don't have been different alternatives that would keep it.
Well my number one of them is going to be the and you actually can't get it again and organic pure form.
So often you know where you from the other ones and I really wanna try that Mumford Esther but I can't find it in care reform it's always drew mixed with.
Not pedestrian or something else to make it measures people for simple.
Com here's another women to steal this from a neighbor not that this actually fit in my house but this is trivia similar to appear via again they're going with the whole name.
Yes it's with the sound like Steve via though they're trying to get on that bandwagon however.
The college the first ingredient.
It's not eating breeding and still been in different alternative look at your ingredients look at your label like where it has value nutrition facts and stuff.
The two of them to be used in combination.
In order to fully get the full picture but consider continue to look at the nutrition label you know looking and very if not.
Calories fat sugar things like that but it it doesn't give you the full.
Respect.
Fortunate speed it doesn't work in a lot of cooking processes doesn't do that low heat so what Whitney exit development using sites as a sweetener.
And I think she's gonna tell you have to use a fifty.
But getting that.
So wet and making that it.
This thank you chocolate pumpkin square so.
Anything we can have around the house and it's a lot less sugary a lot less impact on our round when her lecture and now.
That can help us with a little bit Creighton that acknowledgment that this week.
I'm satisfied.
And we go wrong with her at.
So in that of whites sugar we're going to be using.
A combination of Stevie in state.
I'm a big fan these commitments devious I can't.
Reports are hitting that bitter we want people that Wikipedia it's yet he.
And short if you we're trying to meet up with coffee and put in a teaspoon Stevie which.
This being about date it varies depending on what's that you're looking at if 500 or is it a hundred times more strong and ship.
More sweet than sugar.
All of your sugar alcohol and the better always could be stronger so if you look at for the T think about it holy.
And again.
Here is situated that way.
He kind eighty been.
And we can use that to measure like what would be something you and this is we like these without anything to get pop.
Is that the my husband is talking about.
And did 402.
What we had a this take care and we've made such but he just taking some.
But the dice.
None of them landa with a hot what do where what are softened.
What that Iraq community to sweeten the majority of the mountains.
Are there recommend that you he's business from populated forget that moment on a field here and the great thing about this if this isn't it odd statement no more book that.
Who but I don't know until there's gonna be unanimous leader.
I think are there much bigger imitator and.
Columbus fiber whereas if I defeat.
There's more fiber it actually decreases the option that's going to be in your food.
Plus it's gotta love it would be if things that you fifteen something like deviant which is some movement concentrated.
And you know it's simple for people you're going to have to really adjust your recipe.
To work with it you know there's that much less believe it for this season's media this helps us to work with that.
Fault that balance fiber health and I like that notified that if acutely yes that is really what he's great for brown he's great bars.
While it yet but give it.
Person on on fifteen thing necessarily if it didn't bark at me but I do recommended what we're.
Free flour.
Or what we're working with.
Britain potter with Morgan.
They needed spicy chocolate something.
I put it about two thirds cup of flour and near.
You have the gluten free falling it is Winfrey I am borderline silly act I go that route.
It's not the best thing for everybody but.
We'll hope that effective purple mothers can't and that.
Act and then I'm gonna put in about a half cup here.
Breaking pattern that what happened before warrior Keene.
And I we'll find that the combination of the different things got he potent cranberry approaching.
Hence see protein if you think that combination is a little bit better it's less aggressively sweet as well as some of the other people that they.
We can patent on that without him here to.
Again we'll hear.
And wait for it he definitely stand up to thinking as well it's hot and it's getting it's gonna work some time that can get robbery and that's where we went they would wait.
This that there.
Oppenheim big into the disease affects injured written fat.
They're trying to not have too much wet stuff in here I'm trying to.
Almost DP did not flower and he used animal and decreasing the amount of sugar than any.
But he needs some body when I put more spices and things much like spicy or that the people or something.
Savory they've treated lots of earth left displacement step.
Com need less sugar I need less salt.
Knowing the different balance that if you like you got that played around a lot to get about the perfect recipe it.
We do it.
Taking what our clients craving what they want to eat.
And finding ways to make it helped it take sugar out of that it's been like take back out for that this event like this so that they can still feel.
They're enjoying their food.
By the same time.
It's not going to be attacked them.
So I'm going in with tables and a half future.
Again I'd I think I think.
The Achilles injury but again we're trying to avoid a little bit of extra.
Witness.
It would happen if we just but you know teaching them this about this and not make me about it he stated that.
I'm going to use a little bit of clothes folly about a quarter after you've known that.
Management.
You know all of it and it leveling a little chart that you heat for our educated.
Yeah yeah.
Works.
With the planet beach about certain that he in my cabinet devious they're cute is easy.
Any additional effects that obviously cinnamon got to go in there but look at how dark brown that is I don't want that beautiful pumpkin color.
To get taken over ground so we want to maintain that Lott until they add more like a tablespoon of some large large amount.
You are pumpkin pie spice we're gonna play that the last thing and that in here and this is one of those things that.
Not create easy spice Leverett yet I worked my butt.
Is kind.
NN movement really gonna put that in there I've about that yeah yeah okay.
Again the more.
Kick you have a stars like he and 85% dark top and on top of it.
Then you won't ship here because your body that she compares it to the spicy or the bitter and for the month.
So I put in about a court he's been there.
I like it Lacey hair and he had the right to Chad me.
I think.
Ahead and fifth this.
Again even normally fifteenth.
And mature making it take you to one of hearing us but again we're working with gluten free flour and with protein powder.
This kind of almost makes it a little bit more areas like.
Avoiding that vent sometimes a lot of people complained.
Do you think nineteen how to act and ended up gloomy or robbery or it had separated and I had a nice player on the top and then the bottom what's really that can be.
This is what I would recommend making it very fine exactly.
And again when anything's doesn't have to be inherited from your grandmother that septa.
I'd found a plant dollars to permanently.
The dollar.
And look that good job.
That there and we are put aside our Brian we actually.
Every my blender on my mixer here.
We certainly something like that this is pretty simple and straightforward.
However.
I don't totally recommended.
You see this work when I anything they'll be in college with about this much counter space and new equipment I think in making these human blender.
Or and I'll be civil do this but I did.
Yes and I like I like that.
Picking up the paint the equipment now that they can certainly use the blender and it certainly is not a big profits.
Eight Philip lender would work to put at town would.
Cookies and bars she read stuff brownie you're fine with this evening standard.
Standard and blender blend them.
And happy look on our blog we ought to have a great recipe for ground.
Faith movement upward baby one of the few were right on that.
Point where fall at about but never got DSL this time but.
And a lot okay but did not heart and I'm giving up looking a lot.
On your thoughts he technique that many about the need but altering its profit shattered self pity every.
Near one of them yeah literally our clients want.
They wouldn't this week they want to stay on their diet and that.
And a lot of it experimentation that is.
The cool the hearing that had been fitness experts for any number of years now.
It's simple to the I did not as we consider anywhere in the house that except the bathroom these initiatives.
The 00 yeah.
Big bags under my cap and and fired on every time there's been torn by.
Both men and women who you can now about senator that you think you.
When rock that.
And it doesn't mean you're in my fault.
I took the idea for some.
The cousins said.
Then he would definitely make ended up I love it.
What happened here was that can of organic pumpkin you could certainly make your own press something to do it in the Evan get one these pie pumpkin sugar pie pumpkins.
But here at just the fifteen ounce can we're getting something from.
It and some of our day period we have time I'll show you how I mean that.
A recipe again on our blog.
About a couple happen because he easily read he used in the fridge says it.
When you're ready to cook begin quickly wouldn't have to take all day.
That's what's.
Anyway so that it can get one in there and that often.
Oil and yet we think Clinton this.
Ultimately.
I am going to put in about a quarter cup this is gone but not oil.
Yeah its global warming here then 75 thing is nothing.
Again something as.
It's not a temperamental recipe you.
Still a big battle.
The Sun Bowl.
And in the fifth now okay.
It's better than I thought it would be.
And like bad.
And it probably should've put this in with our hot dry ingredients.
Different but they go ahead but it is now back completely forgot to put in Expedia.
Our star here.
That you and the next half but he did go up to fifty well.
That going in.
And I don't have to be weird about town and then he really easy recipes.
But not to decide.
And a minute.
We got wonderful editing them and put to segue.
Again can we get an expensive organic unit.
Available it added it's at a reasonable price but only have cost across the street.
When they're going to matter I don't need another fifteen TV that we need to hear it particular look at.
Whom think they don't eat organic ingredients.
I had my mind away.
We actually get a majority of things that.
What is the price on their eggs in it 24 peachtree.
Brown organic eggs.
That in.
And keeping your eyes open my every avenue in looking at the ingredients reading the label thing informed nearly what works for your body as well.
The great thing.
Cost go to your biggest retailer of groceries and a number of other than it actually listening to what people want people want to eat healthier.
And they show it and they should have acted it good clean healthy fit.
That it.
A little limited on time.
Oakland at.
Thank you got thought I had actually been hidden aid and Beattie we get that they look like.
What the finished product but but that he.
I would normally think about half of but since we're short on time.
Hold on okay that's accompanied her to originally nick that infection.
As having I think flies up one and then the man.
So high I really.
It definitely comes here.
And it looked me straight LA.
He won't.
I think I have a peek at what they're gonna look play.
Yeah and gas that you just gonna mix this around and feel pretty early next.
And I think that's about and have it that we meaning something color.
Yeah and we want it to me integrity of the color.
They Warren's company Perry whom you if you well.
So that's what we're going for Wachovia pop in.
They often pay a line that train together and what temperature and they fit in the baker out you can afford fascinating point.
At 350 bad that today 99 parade eight by eight.
By the gone new land through its I felt that any on the longer and that things whereas I usually use a night by not.
You know it with his equipment here.
Those who played a great thing about and that parchment paper needed I didn't have to use marvel.
Now and I can just profit and is well.
And again we weren't concerned about the in fact we often don't get little rubbery rough edges but it them so often I mean he would be something any points.
From the side and I'm Christy you robbery.
Now dead and at that.
It won't have that need and can now.
We'll look at me now.
Environments fantastic.
And it made what the whole.
You know here I totally get the idea I think that you're hanging in a good thing.
What we're left with not.
That other.
Though a bit of what on top tier I just melted down a couple of squares of really dark chocolate it.
NN 85% dark chocolate.
Give yourself a little cases and it's it's a good test on on the phone if this if you haven't abided.
If this doesn't taste like chocolate it doesn't taste sweet enough.
That's a really good indicated that you were caught taking way too much we more than me.
Go lowered.
And Bob the tough thing about anywhere and you how good tech expert ballot that thing at a given enough time to go into that what.
That bite people could make me feel healthy alternative cooking heat dessert yeah great head effort out.
With hundreds of what we like to do is obviously that classic ratio is three parts wealth one pot assets we actually flipped that going.
One bottle to three pots that sit and that we memo that out by using some kind Sweetney either again that they can array or Expedia and some fresh to kind of get that Bennett out and then to blend it with one of those handling the stick Glenda so they must vacation price actually makes it feel more weighty than it actually has.
I like bat.
There hasn't been so great that I think he's so much for sharing your kids in the grip on alternative ideas to profits checkered life of being heated at EB news.
And thinking I think he ever run for watching her healthy living unity good eaten me up compromise will have an article on it.
And yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Robin Roberts' transplant anniversary inspires Be the Match registrations

A lot of fun.
Happy Friday, happy first day of fall.
Great to have David with us here on a Friday morning.
Great to be here and deliver the exciting announcement.
I always said you look adorable for 5 years old.
Healthier and wider than any 5-year-old I ever met.
I was watching and not a dry eye from where I was watching either.
So proud of you.
Thank you.
Weren't any dry eyes here in the studio as well.
You know, you inspired so many people to register, be the match.com.
You broke a record.
Almost 2400 people signed up online in just one day and we're going to put that in perspective because I don't think you realize.
It usually takes a recruiter to make that happen.
You got it done in one day.
I didn't.
We got it done.
Thank you, thank you very much.
But that is so vital because it can lead to a potential cure for mds and sickle cell anemia.
So many different illnesses.
Think of A.J.
That morning and when he met the person that saved his life.
She's getting married this weekend.
They'll all be there.
A top story we want to tell

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for At-home tests claim to analyze your genes to determine the best diet for you

We are turning now to our home consumer lab.
This morning we'll break down a new health trend using your genes to determine your diet?
ABC's Becky Worley has that story.
Reporter: What's it feel like to lose weight on weight watchers?
Dieting, lose 20 pounds for $20.
Hundreds of plans.
I tried everything.
I had the low carb eating.
I had the green juicing, smoothie, cleanses.
Reporter: For this woman none seemed right for her.
I felt I was in a war with food.
Reporter: She turned to habit, an at home test that promises a personalized nutrition plan but doesn't promise weight loss.
I wanted to find a way to eat that was sustainable, that was healthy.
Reporter: It has a few elms, swab your cheek, measure your waist and submit a few blood samples and analyze DNA, metabolism and biomarkers they say impact your body's ability to process food.
Then they create a personalized profile to help eaters make healthy choices.
Based on the results test takers are assigned to one of seven different profiles like protein seeker, fat seeker and a profile for people who need to slow their me tab limps.
She was assigned a grain lover's dream.
I was a rank seeker which meant that I can have up to 50 to 60% of my calories from carbs.
Was that good news?
Do you love carbs?
I love carbs.
Yeah, I love carbs.
Reporter: The company says while weight loss isn't promised it's possible.
They say weight loss with habit is designed for no more than half a pound to two pounds a week.
After eight weeks she hasn't lost weight but inches.
I'm more energized and active.
My clothes are starting to fit differently on me.
Reporter: Other at home testing services offer personalized diets based on your DNA like this from orig3n and this from dnafit that runs 199.
Habit is more expensive and includes a metabolic test and access to their app and phone-based coaching and costs $309 and isn't covered by most insurance plans.
But it's still early days.
While studies are ongoing so far little evidence that profiling your DNA by itself leads to significant weight loss or healthier outcomes.
Mine is protein seeker.
Reporter: The founder of habit says his company's program is worth it.
Six months later I lost 25 pounds and felt better than I had felt in years.
Reporter: He tested positive for the obesity gene and has to really watch his fat intake.
How does this differ from going to see a nutritionist?
Depending you may get more of a standard or generic recommendation but based on your DNA, blood work and metabolism.
More refined and very specific recommendation.
Reporter: For "Good morning America," Becky Worley, Oakland, California.
That's really good.
Dr. Jennifer Ashton is back.
Yes, high dear.
Watching that piece with you, you have a degree in nutrition.
Tell us what you think of these dn.
A-based diets.
The evidence is not there yet.
These studies need much better methodology.
They're in their early stages of investigation and little evidence to support it and according to the academy of nutrition and dietetics newt tree genetic dietary based practices are not recommended.
What about those people in the piece who say they felt they had success -- Placebo works 30% of the time.
In general if you focus on food, good things are going to happen and people like a personalized, individualized approach to their eating and that really speaks to it.
This is just an example as a nutritionist as a physician of the types of food I recommend in a day.
If you eat like this, you will feel and look good.
And drink lots of water we learned from Tom Brady.
Exactly, that's right.
Dr. Jen.
I'll drink to that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Aaron Hernandez's family suing NFL, Patriots

with that major headline about Aaron Hernandez.
A lawyer for the late NFL player and convicted murderer now says researchers found what they called the most severe case of cte they had ever seen in someone his age.
ABC's linsey Davis is here with the story this morning.
Good morning, linsey.
On the heels of that the family filed a $20 million lawsuit to compensate his 4-year-old daughter for the loss of her father.
The allegation is that both the NFL and the patriots not only knew but hid the dangers of the sport.
That was complete.
This is Hernandez.
Reporter: Doctors now say former NFL superstar Aaron Hernandez suffered from chronic traumatic encephalopathy, commonly known as cte.
Not only were the results positive but we're told that it was the most severe case they had ever seen in someone -- for someone of Aaron's age.
Reporter: Doctors at the Boston university cte center examined Hernandez's brain concluding that the former new England patriots tight end was suffering from an advanced form of the brain disease, stage 3 out of 4.
These results come five months after the 27-year-old committed suicide in prison while serving a life sentence for the 2013 murder of his friend Odin Lloyd.
Guilty of murder in the first degree.
Reporter: Now his family is taking aim at the NFL and his former team, the new England patriots, saying in a lawsuit, defendants were fully aware of the dangers of exposing NFL players such as Mr. Hernandez to repeated traumatic head impacts and blaming them for his death.
Claiming depression, uncontrollable aggression and suicidal impulses are recognized to symptoms of late stage cte.
They finalized a $1 billion class action by former players who claim they suffered traumatic brain injuries during their career.
No comment just yet from the NFL or the patriots.
Hernandez was just 27 years old.
Yet, researchers say the damage he sustained was similar to that of players in their 60s.
The lawyer says the family is also considering a lawsuit against the NCAA and his college team, the university of Florida.
David.
All right, linsey, our thanks to you.
I want to bring in Dr. Jennifer Ashton and, Jen, we have been talking about this and known videotape is an issue for so long.
When you heard doctors say this is the most severe case in someone this age ever, what does it tell you.
Cte, neurodegenerative brain disorder caused by repeated head trauma causing symptoms of memory loss, aggression, depression, in some cases suicidal behavior.
We can only diagnose this on autopsy.
Now, there is no screening test yet for this.
Just recently big study in Jama out in July found evidence of cte in 99% of deceased NFL players' brains.
Now there could be biased involved because those players may have been having estimate symptoms and donated their brains for study or other terps involved in terms of the pathology.
In the meantime, it's Friday morning.
"Friday night lights" and so many going to the games to watch their kids play and see stories and wonder about the risks.
It's scary and concerning but you can't remove all risks.
There are other sports.
This is not just football that has a risk of head trauma.
Recent study show children who play contact football before the age of 12 have three times higher risk of symptoms and depression.
We need to understand how to prevent it, screen it and treat it.
You know your kids best so watch the warning signs.
Over to you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Cheat days may help dieters lose weight, research finds

We turn now to our "Gma" health alert.
New research breaking down cheat days and whether they help or they hurt your diet.
If turns out they could be the key to helping you lose that weight.
Pizza, candy, junk food galore.
Cheat days are the indulgent break from the chore of dieting and frequently shared all over social media.
Jen aniston goes for Mexican fare.
Hugh Jackman reaches for timtam cookies and the rock banana chip pancakes.
It may improve weight loss long term and scientists found people who dieted for two weeks then paused for two weeks lost more weight and fat than people who dieted continuously.
Why would indulging help you diet?
It's the diet catch 22.
To lose weight you need to eat less.
But then your body responds by burning fewer calories.
It's a protective measure that goes back to caveman days to conserve energy when you don't have enough to eat so diet cheaters rejoice.
Breaking your diet may convince your body it's not starving so you can have your cake and eat it too.
Our senior medical contribute Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here now.
So tell us what your thoughts are on this study.
The cheat days are actually helpful.
Okay, couple of caveats.
This particular study very small numbers.
We need to study it more with more people and even the group that had those reset periods of time had their calories restricted to the new lower amount of body weight so, again, it needs more research but let me show you what the theory of this diet approach is.
We have two audience members.
Alessandra will represent the person who gets a reset day so if you think of those bags like the number of the days of the month as she picks them up.
Go ahead.
Let's say she's doing six days on, one day of reset.
When she gets through day six you can eat the whole plate of jelly beans.
That doesn't do damage to your diet.
It could potentially but Jeremy who will do this indefinitely.
You can see it gets harder and harder to pick up the bags if there is no reset or cheat period.
By the end of six day, 14 day, 30 days, he's physically, psychologically and metabolically getting -- Your body can adjusting to the fewer calories, correct?
Look, your body is a very smart machine and it adapts both in ray metabolic standpoint.
Keep going, Jeremy.
So if you are going to cheat, I mean are there downsides and I would imagine eating all of that would derail your diet.
It obviously potentially could when you reset you eat very poorly.
You could undo all of the good that you've done and, again, making new habits is about making things -- you're doing great, Jeremy.
Making things a habit.
I always tell people my prescription for weight loss or sustaining a new weight is simple.
For anything to work it has to be safe, it has to be simple and it has to be sustainable because any diet approach could work in the short term.
That's not going to work.
All right, Jeremy.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Boy, 8, meets the bone marrow donor who saved his life, live on 'GMA'

ifou look at those dunes, they say six to eight feet of sand have fallen off the top of the dunes.
We are trying to find out more information about that, and we will bring you a live report at noon.
Live in sandwich, Josh brogadir, WCVB newscenter 5.
Antoinette: Thank you.
We will stay on track of time.
So 70% of the time people need a bone marrow transplant, they weren't fortunate to have someone in my family like I was blessed to have woman right here and that's where be the match comes in and one of the many people it helped was a young boy named A.J.
And we want to share his story with you.
He was a really healthy boy.
All of a sudden in the middle of the night he woke up with leg pain and the following day the leg pain was so excruciating that we had to take him to the E.R.
Reporter: In the hospital on his fourth birthday in January 2013 A.J.
And his family received a life-changing diagnosis.
We found out that it was actually leukemia.
So we knew that we needed to get to Walter reed as fast as possible.
Reporter: Living overseas while dad Jeff served in the military, A.J.
And his family immediately flew back to the states for treatment.
Was so sick, the treatment was so intense.
Alexa and I were shifting each other out at the hospital.
Eventually he did reach remission.
Reporter: Unfortunately in the summer of 2015 A.J.
Relapsed.
It was another setback.
It came back in two locations so that's a clear indication that the treatment wasn't working.
Reporter: At that point we knew that a transplant was really his only option.
The first step was for all of us to be tested.
And none of us were a match.
Reporter: The family turned to be the match, an organization that helps patients find their life-saving donors.
And thankfully they found A.J.
A match.
A 22-year-old woman, that's all the family knew at the time.
Meanwhile, A.J.
Kept on fighting.
Felt like a very long road leading up to his transplant day.
He went through a lot of heavy-duty chemotherapy.
Reporter: Throughout the difficult process like a typical kid A.J.
Found small moments of joy in his toys and even dancing.
Reporter: For a.j.
's mom it was a glimmer of hope she needed.
Writing to her son's donor.
So I'm thinking of you as you head to the hospital today for your procedure and I thank you from the very depths of my heart for what you've done for my little boy.
Reporter: After 270 days in the hospital, the best news of all, the transplant worked.
Was cancer-free.
Happy birthday to you ???
Reporter: After 2 1/2 years, 8-year-old A.J.
Is back in school.
And now one more stop on his journey, meeting his donor for the first time face-to-face.
Saying thank you never really feels like enough when someone saves your child's life.
Alexa, his dad Jeff.
Michael and I are so thrilled to have you with us.
I got to tell you, how is it going, A.J.?
What do you like to do?
I don't know.
Most of the time I like to build legos.
Legos, perfect.
We got a new movie coming out.
We got some legos backstage for you.
How is he doing.
Is doing well.
Going back to school and playing with his friends and, yeah, he's doing well.
Alexa, A.J.
Is 8 years old now and he's thriving so what does that mean to you to see him thrive in the way he is.
Oh, you know, it's -- well, I just feel so much joy after a lot of dark days and it's so nice to see him running again and playing with his friends and going to school for a full day and seeing him smile again and talk.
I know it had to be difficult when looking to the family and there was not a match and everybody always thinks it will be an automatic.
You got a family members, it'll be the case but it's not and then to find that there was one on be the match.
I remember I think my heart sank the day that none of us were a match but a lot of people were praying and fortunately we didn't have to wait very long.
It was maybe two weeks afterwards we found out that A.J.
Had a potential match.
And what went through your head when you found out you did find a match?
Relief.
Relief.
Well, you know, a.j.
's match is here.
You know, you've never met in person.
You talked on the phone but you haven't met in person.
We talked on the phone.
Sent text messages back and forth.
But we have not met her.
So -- Are you ready to meet her?
Want to meet her.
Very ready.
My heart is pounding.
I don't know if I can take this.
Get up.
Everybody, give a round of applause to a.j.
's match, Alex.
Come on out, Alex.
Good to see you, Alex.
Come on over.
Good to see you.
Oh, wow.
This edition of "Good morning America" brought to you by Kleenex.
Alex needs some herself.
Look at -- something you want to say to her.
Thanks for saving my life.
It was my pleasure.
What's it like to see each other face-to-face for the first time after all this.
It's overwhelming.
Of O we've thought a lot about meeting you and getting to know you more.
We're so excited and so thankful.
So beautiful, Alexa, something you want to say.
You know, just Alex is already a part of our family and I really look forward to just sharing life with her and, you know, I've been doing that so far sending her messages and pictures of A.J.
And every time he meets a milestone I'm excited to share it with her.
Did you ever think when you signed up that you'd end up with a family and a new friends and all of these things?
No, I thought I would be lucky if I ever met my recipient but I was prepared for the fact that I might not ever know and I had to come to terps with that but it is surreal to me.
Why did you want to be a donor?
Because it's the right thing to do.
And it's so beautiful, I know that without even meeting him, you wrote a letter.
I did.
Can you read a portion of it.
This boy may be somebody's -- may someday be someone's husband, someone's father, grandfather, son-in-law, maybe he will take the world by storm and find the cure for cancer or maybe he won't.
The point is he is important.
The point is he's important.
You know, I've been overwhelmed by this moment and everybody that's here.
We'll get to know more and more people and so grateful my sister was my donor.
But a total stranger doing this.
A total stranger and that's what we -- you've got the best smile.
Can I just say that?
The cutele little freckles.
In the world.
What is your message to people, pecially young people thinking because you guys are the sweet spot, aren't they?
I mean the college -- my college campus did a swabin' for robin, a bone marrow drive because you all are really -- thank you for that.
What is your message to someone.
My message is don't be afraid to donate.
Don't be afraid to join.
You never are going to regret saving someone.
There's nothing bad that can come out of donating.
It's all positives.
I tell you, I'm looking at A.J.
He's just staring at you.
He's so happy.
He's so happy and there's a big congratulations for you too, Alex.
Somebody is getting married, everybody.
This weekend.
In three days.
So you hav@ some people who may be sitting here with us who are going to the wedding.
I'm very excited.
Wonderful.
Extension of family.
Extension of family.
Thank you all so much.
I know it's not easy to share when you're going through something like this but it's so important to give hope to people and as I said earlier it's a privilege to be a messenger and I feel that we are.
We are wrae delivering a message of hope and resilience and knowing that you just keep moving.
You keep believing and we are all here today assembled and this too shall pass so thank you all very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Robin Roberts marks milestone 'birthday': 5 years since her bone marrow transplant

September blood cancer awareness month and today, September 209 a inteshl day of celebration for all of us.
It is.
It was, well, five years ago today that I had my bone marrow transplant and that was after ten consecutive days of chemotherapy to get me ready for the transplant and it was considered to be a rebirth.
And I definitely felt that I was getting another chance at life.
Sometimes treatment for cancer can lead to other serious medical issues and that's what I'm facing right now.
It is something that is called mds.
My big sister is a virtually perfect match for me and she is going to be my donor.
She's going to be my donor.
Five years ago today surrounded by my family and close friends, I was given the gift of life.
Nothing can keep me from you ???
Reporter: With a bone marrow transplant.
I feel all the love in here.
All the love.
We're keeping it going.
Reporter: My transplant doctor, Sergio said a prayer for me as he inserted millions of my sister's sally-ann's stem cells into a port in my chest.
I think now is a good time to say, go, Sally, go.
Reporter: The weeks after my transplant were brutal.
Spent mostly in isolation, when I was able to leave my room I had to wear a mask and gloves and everyone around me had to do the same.
All in an effort to keep me strong as I recovered and built up my immune system.
But at types I felt anything but strong.
We got to stop meeting like this.
Rejoice, rejoice Emmanuel ???
we love you dear sister yes we do ???
rejoice ???
oh robin ???
Reporter: After 30 days -- ???
since I laid my burdens down ???
Going home now!
Reporter: I walked out of the hospital and felt blessed to take my first breath of fresh air.
After five years by the grace of god amber and my family I am thriving, healthy, strong and eternally grateful for life.
Grooving.
All right.
I'm going to go over here.
Robin.
Reporter: To celebrate my anniversary I caught up with Dr. Sergio who was happy to share with me the advances in the bone marrow transplant community.
He invited me to a brand-new housing facility for patients with blood cancers and disorders.
The memorial sloan-kettering patient residence.
So we said let's make a facility that allows them to heal better.
I can't imagine having gone through it five years ago as I did and would have welcomed something like this.
So this is like a community area.
Correct.
And how many patients can be here?
We have 20 units or 20 patients with their family care givers.
Reporter: The facility is an apartment building for patients who are recovering from transplants.
Each unit is a home away from home.
It's a part of memorial sloan-kettering's out patient and early discharge program.
Does insurance cover this.
Excellent question.
We work with the patient's families and their insurance companies, most insurance companies pay, not everybody does.
Other than that what qualifies a patient to be able to be eligible to be here?
Patients have to, one, be doing it as an outpatient or be discharged early and have a caregiver 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and the other one they would have to be medically qualified.
All of this is made possible because of a last five years the tremendous advances when it comes to the bone marrow transplant.
Tell us about the significant medical advances.
So, I mean there are many advances.
These genetically modified t-cells.
They get genetically modified in the lab to attack a specific protein that is expressed on their tumors then we give those cells back and lo and behold eight out of ten patients actually go in remission.
The other big one is we've always said you were blessed that you have a donor and that one of the biggest barriers to stem cell transplantation was not having a donor in the family.
Now even if your brothers and sisters don't match fully, we can do a transplant with their stem cells with similar results to what we got with a brother or sister who is fully matched.
That's huge.
That's huge.
That's huge.
Lynndell is being treated for non-hodgkin's lymphoma.
Three weeks after her transplant she's back on her feet.
Hello.
Recovering here at the patient residence.
What has it meant to you to be able to be here to recover?
Oh, it's been everything to us.
It's been a respite and simplified our life.
As a caregiver while she's in the hospital it's close enough that I could, you know, go back and forth throughout the day, as you know, when you're in there, you're -- I don't want to say you're trapped there for awhile but you're there for awhile if how are you feeling?
I feel great.
I feel rested.
I feel just wonderful.
But I have battled this for 12 years and finally have a solution at the end that I could get the stem cell and move on to the next step.
Well, thank you for sharing your story and your journey.
And lyndell and her husband have been married for 49 years and already invited myself to their golden anniversary.
I did, honestly.
Got my whole family here.
I got my family there.
Part of my family there.
Sally-ann who is my donor, my partner amber who was there every step of the way and I'm usually pretty composed.
I'm going to lean on you a little bit, George.
I got my whole family here.
Somebody who left the nest, Richard Besser, Dr. Richard Besser is back with us Thank you.
Now the president and CEO of the Robert wood Johnson foundation doing some great work and we'll talk to you about that but I had to say thank you.
You and Diane sawyer were my beacons, you were my north star in helping me navigate so much and it's a given that your family are going to be there, your family and friends if you're blessed and it's a given that the importance that they have.
But this, your family at work is so incredibly vital.
Talk about the work of care givers.
Yeah, it's so important.
I mean, when I reflect back on that time, what you gave to all of us through letting us see your journey, the highs and the lows and letting us see your strength, that gave courage to people all over the country, all over the world.
The ability you had to let people in to help you, people at work who stepped up to help you and the role of the caregiver.
We think -- we often take the caregiver for granted but it's an incredibly important role.
You can't get a transplant unless you have a caregiver who is willing to be there 24/7 and takes a person who has love but may not have medical experience and turns them into a medical professional whose job it is to keep you safe and we need to do more to make sure they're supported and have social support around them so in giving you what you needed -- They get what they need.
You're a medal professional now, amber.
I learned so much just every day just being there and being every step of the way.
You're being thrown information and you're trying to keep it altogether.
Sorry.
What advice do you have for people in a similar situation?
Definitely take care of yourself.
You have to take care of yourself.
Whether, you know, if you're being relocated and you're away from your home and during the days in your everyday life, if you exercise, go to the gym, find a yoga studio.
Do something so you can just release all of this energy that you have built up from being around and being the giver and giving, giving, giving and it allows you to love and be able to be there and supportive.
/P It was so great we had a lot of group of friends that came in and helped my sister and amber but I wanted to talk about my colleagues here.
You filled in for me.
You and Elizabeth vargas so much.
We had Oprah.
We had other people who came in.
There were people that I heard from that said, we showed them -- we showed them how you care for somebody going through an illness like that and they are now doing job sharing too.
To not have to worry about their job like I didn't have to worry about mine so I'm so grateful to you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Breaking down the GOP's latest health care push

Mom.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Scores of sex offenders ordered to live on a secluded island in Washington state say the often cloudy, brown water there is making them sick, and records show the water system has been plagued by problems for more than a decade.
About 200 residents of the Special Commitment Center have filed a federal lawsuit alleging that the facility is violating their rights by forcing them to drink contaminated water that causes stomach pain and skin rashes and has been blamed for unexplained deaths.
The executive who oversees the center says the water turns brown periodically when the pipes are flushed, and he insists the cloudiness is only an aesthetic effect that causes no harm.
But an Associated Press review of state Department of Health records shows that the water has repeatedly exceeded standards for various chlorine-related chemicals and has been cited for violations dating back to 2006.
Health reports say the facility's water treatment plant has been "on the verge of failure" since 2013, and a former plant operator told health officials in 2015 that the water's cloudiness readings were being manipulated to make the water look cleaner than it was.
McManus, who has lived at the center southwest of Seattle since 2001, said his friends on McNeil Island in south Puget Sound have contracted diseases from the water and he has suffered ill effects such as developing hives after taking a shower.
"Just because we did a crime, doesn't mean we shouldn't have clean water," McManus said.
The Special Commitment Center is home to the state's worst sex offenders  those who have been deemed "sexually violent predators."
At the end of their prison sentences, the state convinced a judge that these inmates were too dangerous to be released, resulting in a civil commitment that requires them to undergo treatment that could someday make them safe enough to be released.
Some have lived there for many years.
The center consists of a half-dozen buildings encircling a grassy recreational area and surrounded by multiple rows of razor-wire fencing.
It holds about 225 men and one woman.
Another 20 residents live next door in transitional housing.
The drinking water, also used for laundry, cooking and brushing teeth, is pulled from the nearby Butterworth Reservoir before being sent to a treatment plant and a holding tank.
It then moves through corroded underground pipes to offices, housing units and a kitchen.
Health officials warned plant operators back in 2014 that they were not correctly measuring and reporting data used to verify the removal of potential pathogens.
At issue was the way they measured turbidity, or cloudiness, in the water.
Turbidity can cause health problems if bacteria, viruses and parasites attach to particles in the water, risking nausea, cramps, diarrhea and headaches, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
In early 2015, one of the treatment plant operators told the health department that he had "no confidence" that drinking water standards were being met when it came to turbidity.
Bill Platt said the system had been set up to create "a false reading for the record" and the actual levels were high.
Platt's concerns bothered him so much that he resigned, he said in a letter describing the suspect system.
Health officials investigated Platt's claims and told the plant operator in April 2015 that they questioned the "validity" of the plant monitoring and said the facility appeared to be "at the end of its useful life" and "vulnerable to treatment and equipment failures."
Those findings forced the Department of Corrections into an agreement with health officials in late 2015 to fix the problems or face penalties.
When some deadlines were not met, the agency asked for an extension to December 2017.
While giving a reporter a recent tour of the island, neither the center's chief executive nor Craig Mingay, an assistant attorney general who is handling the lawsuits filed by residents, said he knew anything about the agreement.
"I don't think there's any evidence that the water has caused a single case of illness out here," CEO Bill Van Hook said, adding that the water treatment plant "takes care of all of the health issues."
But when a corrections official gave health officials an update on the agreement last year, the official acknowledged that the water treatment plant's ability to maintain water quality was "in question."
He also said the dam holding the water in the reservoir was at risk of failure.
The Department of Corrections has asked the Legislature for money to replace pipes and drill test wells, but lawmakers have yet to approve any.
Calvin Malone, a resident leading the legal challenge, said the water contains high level of chemicals and fecal matter.
"None of the staff drinks the water here," Malone said.
"If the water was perfectly fine, why would they carry water from the mainland onto the site or use bottled water from the kitchen when the residents have to drink water from the pipes?"
Taunus Newton, a scheduling supervisor at the center, confirmed that he and other workers will not drink the water.
The chlorine-related chemicals that exceeded state and federal standards were trihalomethane and heloacetic acid, which are "disinfection byproducts" that result from an interaction between chlorine and organic material.
The EPA says a person drinking water contaminated with these chemicals over many years could suffer liver or kidney problems or be at risk for cancer.
The residents allege in their lawsuit that there have been several unexplained deaths or cancer-related deaths since the center opened and a high cancer rate among the population.
But their complaint does not cite specific examples.
The original federal lawsuit was filed by resident James Edward Jones in 2014.
He claimed the water had floating debris and caused severe stomach cramps, vomiting and other digestive problems.
The state responded by saying testing in accordance with state and federal regulations showed that the water was safe.
A federal judge dismissed Jones' case, but an appeals court sent the case back.
When Jones died in November, Malone took over the case.
Twenty-seven residents joined him in the complaint, and that list grew to 195 by May.
They moved forward without a lawyer until the judge appointed one Sept. 8.
If the water stains clothes and has high levels of chemicals, Malone said, "it cannot be good for anyone."
The Latest on the Republican effort to overhaul the Obama health law (all times local):

11 a.m.

A spokesman for Sen. Rand Paul says the Kentucky Republican remains opposed to the GOP bill repealing the Obama health care law.
Paul's opposition would almost certainly doom the measure.
Just three Republican opponents would kill the bill in the narrowly divided Senate.
Arizona GOP Sen. John McCain opposes the measure and Maine Republican Susan Collins seems almost sure to do so.
Alaska Republican Lisa Murkowski is undecided but voted against earlier versions this summer.
Spokesman Sergio Gor says Paul wants a "significant" reduction in the law's $1 trillion in spending, elimination of its coverage requirements and establishment of broad health plans consumers could join.
Gor calls meeting those demands "the only way" Paul votes yes.
Republicans have revised their bill in hopes of winning votes needed to avert defeat.
9:52 a.m.

Republicans have released a revised version of their legislation dismantling the Obama health care law.
It contains added money and newly eased coverage requirements aimed at winning over GOP senators whose opposition could well sink the bill.
The proposal would allow states to let insurers boost premiums on people with serious pre-existing medical conditions and on older customers.
They could also let insurers sell lower-cost policies covering fewer services than President Barack Obama's health care law requires.
The initial version of the Republican bill required states to get federal approval to make those changes.
The changes might help win over Texas GOP Sen. Ted Cruz, who said he wanted added steps to reduce premiums.
Sponsors say the measure adds money for states with dissident senators including Maine, Alaska and Kentucky.
4:18 a.m.

Top Republicans are adding money to their staggering effort to repeal the Obama health care law and say they're pushing toward a climactic Senate faceoff this week.
Yet their path to succeeding in their last-gasp effort has grown narrower, perhaps impossible.
GOP senators' opposition to their party's drive to scrap President Barack Obama's Affordable Care Act swelled to lethal numbers Sunday.
Moderate Sen. Susan Collins all but closed the door on supporting the teetering bill and conservative Sen. Ted Cruz said that "right now" he doesn't back it.
President Donald Trump has pressed for a fresh vote, and White House legislative liaison Marc Short and Sen. Lindsey Graham, one of the measure's sponsors, said Republicans would move toward a vote this week.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Malaria is caused by a parasite spread by blood-sucking mosquitoes

The rapid spread of "super malaria" in South East Asia is an alarming global threat, scientists are warning.
This dangerous form of the malaria parasite cannot be killed with the main anti-malaria drugs.
It emerged in Cambodia but has since spread through parts of Thailand, Laos and has arrived in southern Vietnam.
The team at the Mahidol-Oxford Tropical Medicine Research Unit in Bangkok said there was a real danger of malaria becoming untreatable.
Prof Arjen Dondorp, the head of the malaria unit, told the BBC News website: "We think it is a serious threat.
"It is alarming that this strain is spreading so quickly through the whole region and we fear it can spread further [and eventually] jump to Africa."
Failing treatments

In a letter, published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, the researchers detail the "recent sinister development" that has seen resistance to the drug artemisinin emerge.
About 212 million people are infected with malaria each year.
It is caused by a parasite that is spread by blood-sucking mosquitoes and is a major killer of children.
The first choice treatment for malaria is artemisinin in combination with piperaquine.
But as artemisinin has become less effective, the parasite has now evolved to resist piperaquine too.
There have now been "alarming rates of failure", the letter says.
Prof Dondorp said the treatment was failing around a third of the time in Vietnam while in some regions of Cambodia the failure rate was closer to 60%.
Resistance to the drugs would be catastrophic in Africa, where 92% of all malaria cases happen.
'Against the clock'

There is a push to eliminate malaria in the Greater Mekong sub-region before it is too late.
Prof Dondorp added: "It's a race against the clock - we have to eliminate it before malaria becomes untreatable again and we see a lot of deaths.
"If I'm honest, I'm quite worried."
Michael Chew, from the Wellcome Trust medical research charity, said: "The spread of this malaria 'superbug' strain, resistant to the most effective drug we have, is alarming and has major implications for public health globally.
"Around 700,000 people a year die from drug-resistant infections, including malaria.
"If nothing is done, this could increase to millions of people every year by 2050."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images

Pupils who are showing early signs of anxiety, depression or self-harm will be able to receive specialist help at school.
A pilot scheme is being launched in Wales where NHS staff will be on hand to give better mental health support.
They can help spot problems early and ensure a child has the right care.
The 1.4m, two-year Welsh Government trial will take place across north east and south east Wales and Ceredigion.
A week ago, the National Education Union urged the Welsh Government to introduce wellbeing officers into schools.
In the 12 months to October 2016, there were 19,000 referrals to Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services (CAMHS) in Wales - a 3,000 rise on the previous year.
Some children feel under pressure to do well in exams while others have said they are being bullied through social media.
But a UK-wide benchmarking of specialist CAMHS in 2016 indicated about a third of all referrals were inappropriate.
Social media impact

Carol Phillips, student support and child protection officer at Crickhowell High School in Powys, said she had noticed a big change over the years.
"In today's society for young people they are faced with so many challenges," she said.
"I think social media has had a major impact on how this generation are.
"They live their lives online, often skewing what's reality and what's not reality, and with that comes many problems."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Carol Phillips, student support officer at Crickhowell High School in Powys, highlighted the role social media has played

She said it could affect self-esteem and their image but added there were other reasons people suffer mental health issues.
"We also see people who present to us with anxiety, depression, eating disorders, self-harm to name a few.
"In school as well there are exam pressures and [pressures] with the current changes in the framework of assessments for young people."
Dr Dave Williams, divisional director of family and therapy services at Aneurin Bevan University Health Board, said there was concern about the number of children needing mental health help.
"There are lots of people who have mental health problems, not all of whom have mental illness.
"CAMHS has come under a lot of pressure to be able to be the solution to some of these problems.
"But if we don't do anything to turn the tap off, we'll run out of resource.
It's a whole system approach which is required."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Naomi Lea, 19, said she suffered mental health problems when she was at school

Announcing the trial Health Secretary Vaughan Gething said: "One in four people in Wales will experience mental health problems at some point in their lives.
"Getting the right treatment at an early stage, coupled with greater awareness of conditions, can in many cases prevent long term adverse impacts.
"This will ensure children, teachers and others charged with caring for children in our schools, receive support to promote good emotional and mental health."
In August, charity Samaritans Cymru called for lessons in emotional and mental health to be mandatory for all secondary schools in Wales and has launched a pilot scheme in Cardiff.
Video

Tammy Morris says she felt like she was "on her own" when her baby Ila refused to breastfeed, and then had a severe allergic reaction to milk formula.
It took several weeks for Ila to be diagnosed with cow's milk protein allergy (CMPA).
Around 2% of babies have the allergy.
Doctors say it can be hard to detect, but there is a milk substitute that can be prescribed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dame Kelly revealed how multiple injuries caused intense self-doubt

Olympic champion Dame Kelly Holmes has spoken of how she self-harmed as she struggled to overcome injuries she thought would end her career.
Dame Kelly, who lives in Kent, won gold in the 800m and 1,500m competitions in Athens in 2004.
She said just a year earlier she was "cutting" herself regularly "to release the anguish" she experienced.
Dame Kelly said: "At my lowest, I was cutting myself with scissors every day that I was injured."
She opened up about her experience with depression at the new Health and Wellbeing Live show near Tonbridge on Saturday.
At the event, Dame Kelly shared an image taken immediately after an injury during the world championships in 1997.
It was one of seven injuries that led her to self-harm.
Dame Kelly, who joined the army at 17 before becoming an athlete, has previously spoken of how she hid her depression for fear of negativity but said it needed to be "shouted about more".
Dame Kelly Holmes: A life less ordinary

Born in Kent in 1970, Dame Kelly went to school in Tonbridge and started training for athletics at the age of 12

She begins competing at an international level in 1992 while in the army and becomes a full-time athlete in 1997

2003 she sinks to her lowest point because of injury

2004 she claims double Olympic gold, is crowned BBC Sports Personality of the Year

2005 she becomes a dame, is named Laureus World Sportswoman of the Year and announces her retirement from athletics

2016 she runs the London Marathon for the first time, aged 46 years

Speaking to BBC South East, she said after "ups and downs for so many years" she got to the point where she looked in the mirror and "didn't want to be here".
She added: "The scissors were in the bathroom and I used them to release the anguish that I had.
It was really a bad place to be.
"But my biggest message to people is that you can get out of that and you can still achieve.
"There is always a light at the end of the tunnel."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Middle distance runner Dame Kelly celebrated two golds at the Athens Olympics in 2004

Becky Randall, co-founder of Health & Wellbeing Live, said: "[Kelly] struggled but she kept going.
"So many of us are inhibited by a black cloud that sometimes descends, by feeling not good enough.
"I want people to be able to understand that they are not alone and that talking about it is what really helps.
It's got to be out there."
Twitter users have been quick to praise Dame Kelly for being so open about her experiences.
Skip Twitter post by @bazcharleton @damekellyholmes So sorry that you experienced the things that you did, but thank you so much for your courage in sharing your story.
Barry Charleton (@bazcharleton) September 24, 2017 Report

Skip Twitter post by @twreflexology You are one brave lady for sharing.
Hope you are on your way to recovery or recovered now.
Stay strong and always ask for help.
xx  Olivia Gillmor (@twreflexology) September 24, 2017 Report

Self-harm

Mental health charity Mind says people generally self-harm as a way of dealing with difficult feelings, memories or situations.
It says people who self-harm should seek support and treatment, such as the help of a GP, therapy, support groups and treatment for scarring.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cases of a flesh-eating disease have rapidly increased in parts of Victoria (File photo)

An Australian schoolgirl suffering from a flesh-eating ulcer is calling for better government funding for research into the infectious disease.
Ella Crofts, 13, is slowly recovering from a Buruli ulcer, a skin disease usually found in the developing world.
Her case has prompted doctors to warn of a growing epidemic in area of Victoria state where she lives.
Health authorities there have recorded 159 cases of the infection in the year to September.
That is nearly three times the number of cases recorded three years ago.
Experts do not know how to prevent the disease nor how it is contracted.
WARNING: Graphic image below

Ms Croft, from the town of Tyabb, says her case began in April, with a sore knee that deteriorated into an open wound.
"Slowly it got worse, with my knee becoming swollen and inflamed, until one day, the skin started breaking down," she said in a statement online.
The outdoors-loving teenager said dry swab tests failed to pick up any bacteria, and antibiotics for common infection also didn't stop her knee worsening.
Her doctor, infectious disease expert and Associate Prof Daniel O'Brien at the Geelong and Royal Melbourne hospitals, told the BBC that Ella had suffered a severe case of Mycobacterium Ulcerans disease or Buruli ulcer.
"The bacteria gets under the skin and slowly eats its way through the skin and the tissue underneath a limb until it's treated.
The longer you leave it the worse it gets, it's a progressive, destructive infection."
Ella has had three operations and months of powerful antibiotics to treat the destructive infection.
"I've had six months of quality medical care and still have not recovered," she said.
What is the Buruli ulcer?
A skin disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans.
The bacteria emits toxins that destroy skin cells, small blood vessels and the fat under the skin, leading to ulcers forming and skin loss.
The ulcer gets bigger with time and can lead to permanent disfigurement or disability.
Usually affects limbs but can also be found on the face and body.
Doctors do not know how the disease is transmitted to humans but it's believed to arise from the environment and soil.
There are also theories that mosquitoes can carry the bacteria.
The teenager has set up a petition calling on federal and state government to increase research into the disease.
"Why are the numbers in Victoria increasing so rapidly?
Why is it moving?
It used to be common on the Bellarine peninsula, now it's mostly on the Mornington Peninsula," she wrote in her petition.
Image copyright ELLA CROFTS Image caption The Buruli ulcer attacking Ella's knee

Associate Prof O'Brien told the BBC there was a "worsening epidemic" in coastal Victoria.
"The cases are rapidly increasing, they seem to be doubling every year, and we're getting twice as many severe cases than we used to, maybe because the organism is growing more virulent," he said.
He was also concerned that the disease was popping up in different areas, and said health authorities had limited knowledge of how to intervene.
Victoria's Department of Health said it was studying local possum faeces for traces of the bacteria and providing funding for studies into mosquitoes.
It is also working with the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners to develop training guides for doctors to help them diagnose the disease quicker.
In Australia, cases of Buruli ulcers are most common in localised coastal areas of Victoria.
It has also been diagnosed in the tropical regions of Queensland.
It is more commonly found in rural West Africa, Central Africa, New Guinea, Latin America and tropical regions of Asia.
Image copyright SGO/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY

Abortions should be treated as a medical issue and not a crime, the UK's leading pregnancy doctors say.
Currently in England, Wales and Scotland it is illegal to have a termination without approval from two doctors and could mean a prison term.
Abortions should be regulated in line with other procedures without criminal sanctions, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said.
It says the 24-week gestational limit should not change.
RCOG president Professor Lesley Regan said it had a responsibility to ensure women had access to "this key healthcare service".
"I want to be clear that decriminalisation does not mean deregulation, and abortion services should be subject to regulatory and professional standards, in line with other medical procedures."
Doctors' union the British Medical Association backed the decriminalisation at its annual conference in June.
In Northern Ireland, abortions are only allowed if a woman's life is at risk or there is a permanent or serious risk to her physical or mental health.
Earlier this year, the UK government said it would provide free abortions in England for women from Northern Ireland.
Image copyright SPL

Scientists have engineered an antibody that attacks 99% of HIV strains and can prevent infection in primates.
It is built to attack three critical parts of the virus - making it harder for HIV to resist its effects.
The work is a collaboration between the US National Institutes of Health and the pharmaceutical company Sanofi.
The International Aids Society said it was an "exciting breakthrough".
Human trials will start in 2018 to see if it can prevent or treat infection.
Our bodies struggle to fight HIV because of the virus' incredible ability to mutate and change its appearance.
These varieties of HIV - or strains - in a single patient are comparable to those of influenza during a worldwide flu season.
So the immune system finds itself in a fight against an insurmountable number of strains of HIV.
Super-antibodies

But after years of infection, a small number of patients develop powerful weapons called "broadly neutralising antibodies" that attack something fundamental to HIV and can kill large swathes of HIV strains.
Researchers have been trying to use broadly neutralising antibodies as a way to treat HIV, or prevent infection in the first place.
The study, published in the journal Science, combines three such antibodies into an even more powerful "tri-specific antibody".
Dr Gary Nabel, the chief scientific officer at Sanofi and one of the report authors, told the BBC News website: "They are more potent and have greater breadth than any single naturally occurring antibody that's been discovered."
The best naturally occurring antibodies will target 90% of HIV strains.
"We're getting 99% coverage, and getting coverage at very low concentrations of the antibody," said Dr Nabel.
Experiments on 24 monkeys showed none of those given the tri-specific antibody developed an infection when they were later injected with the virus.
Dr Nabel said: "It was quite an impressive degree of protection."
The work included scientists at Harvard Medical School, The Scripps Research Institute, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
'Exciting'

Clinical trials to test the antibody in people will start next year.
Prof Linda-Gail Bekker, the president of the International Aids Society, told the BBC: "This paper reports an exciting breakthrough.
"These super-engineered antibodies seem to go beyond the natural and could have more applications than we have imagined to date.
"It's early days yet, and as a scientist I look forward to seeing the first trials get off the ground in 2018.
"As a doctor in Africa, I feel the urgency to confirm these findings in humans as soon as possible."
Dr Anthony Fauci, the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said it was an intriguing approach.
He added: "Combinations of antibodies that each bind to a distinct site on HIV may best overcome the defences of the virus in the effort to achieve effective antibody-based treatment and prevention."
Follow James on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Derek Taylor, 90, wrote tips on tackling loneliness, which have now been published

Researchers have put a financial price on an "epidemic of loneliness" - estimating it costs 6,000 per person in health costs and pressure on local services.
But the London School of Economics study of older people says for every 1 spent in preventing loneliness there are 3 of savings.
Deborah Moggach, author of the novel adapted for The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel films about retired people from the UK going to India, said: "Loneliness really is the last taboo."
She said old age must not be an "inevitable descent into despair" and more efforts had to be made to stop people becoming isolated and lonely.
"We have to stop thinking of this as someone else's problem.
As a society, we need to recognise loneliness as an issue, and put something in place that enables older generations to flourish - not flounder," said Moggach.
'Stigma' of loneliness

The research from the LSE has been published alongside the Campaign to End Loneliness, a group set up by charities and local authorities.
Image copyright Deborah Moggach Image caption Deborah Moggach says people will talk about anything without embarrassment, except loneliness

There are an estimated 1.2 million people in the UK who have "chronic" loneliness, with links to poorer physical and mental health and increased use of GPs, hospitals and social services.
The campaign says it should be seen as a problem in public health terms, like obesity and smoking.
For a decade of an older person's life, the extra economic cost of loneliness is calculated as 6,000.
Over five years, preventing loneliness could see a saving of 3.6m, say the researchers.
Loneliness is also linked in the study to earlier death and higher risks of dementia.
The study says there have been a variety of attempts to tackle loneliness - such as befriending schemes, healthy living initiatives and better "signposting" to show the elderly where they can get help or meet other people.
This week, Guides in Manchester launched a new badge to tackle loneliness in old people, with young people visiting the elderly.
'They're closed off'

But the LSE research also shows that there is a "stigma" around admitting to loneliness.
"It implies that there's something wrong with us," said Moggach.
"We talk about everything else - death, sex and money."
She said the proliferation of technology could make people feel even more isolated in public places.
"Everyone's on their phones, they're closed off."
She said the "last bastion" for old people of chatting to people at the supermarket checkout was being taken away by the increase in automated machines.
People in later life could become "hugely cut off," she said, describing the loss of friends and independence as "chronic, low-level bereavement".
Laura Alcock-Ferguson, executive director of the Campaign to End Loneliness, said: "There is much to do to overcome loneliness.
"The huge stigma surrounding it is clear, which is slowing down efforts to combat it.
This is isolating millions of older people - and with our ageing population, the epidemic of loneliness is growing fast."
"It can be hard," says June, a 76-year-old widow living near Peterborough.
"I have to push myself."
She looks forward to a tea party once a week, on a Sunday, which she says can feel "like the loneliest day of the week".
Loneliness can be "hard to put in words", particularly when she is in touch with family and neighbours.
She has ways to keep in contact - "my iPad is my friend" - and likes to talk to people in Facetime video calls.
But she says she wishes there were more places for elderly people such as herself to go to have some company.
She has volunteered with a local church project making meals for people in need, such as the homeless, and she likes the sense of giving something back.
But she misses the lack of places to go and chat to people - made worse by local shops and post offices shutting down.
And there are other older people she worries are even more isolated and who might go days and weeks without talking to anyone.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The dangers of taking an epilepsy drug during pregnancy are "not taken seriously" says Susan Cole

Almost 70% of women surveyed about a powerful epilepsy drug have not received new safety warnings about the dangers of taking it during pregnancy, the BBC has been told exclusively.
Sodium valproate, known as Epilim, carries a 10% risk of physical abnormalities in unborn babies.
About 20,000 children have been harmed by valproate medicines in the UK since the 1970s.
The medicines regulator said the drug had been kept under constant review.
Babies exposed to the drug in the womb have a 40% risk of developing autism, low IQ and learning disabilities.
The survey of 2,000 women and girls with epilepsy under 50 was commissioned by three charities - Epilepsy Society, Epilepsy Action and Young Epilepsy.
Information gap

Of the 475 currently taking the drug, 68% said they had not received the new warnings known as the Valproate Toolkit.
The toolkit was launched in February 2016 and included printed warnings for patients in GPs' surgeries, hospitals and pharmacies, containing up-to-date information on the risks for neuro-developmental disorders in children of women taking the drug.
The toolkit was created after the European Medicines Agency told all national watchdogs to improve information for patients.
The survey also showed that one in six women taking sodium valproate did not know the drug could "negatively affect the development and/or physical health of children born to women taking this medication".
Twenty-one per cent said they had not had a discussion initiated by a healthcare professional about the risks of taking the drug during pregnancy.
Image caption Three-year-old Alfie Mason has been affected by the epilepsy drug

Sodium Valproate has been prescribed since the 1970s but it was only last year that warnings were put on packets, as part of the new warning system.
Many mothers of some of the 20,000 children harmed by the drug in the UK since that time insist they were never told about the harm it could do.
Natasha Mason's son Alfie, who is three years old, has only just learned to walk.
He has been severely harmed by the drug.
Natasha said: "I wasn't aware it could cause any problems to the unborn child.
"It wasn't until I went to see a paediatrician with my son when he was 10 months old, that it began to click

"He mentioned foetal valproate syndrome and that was when I started to panic."
Routine checks

The Epilepsy Society is now calling on the Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt to make immediate changes to prevent GPs issuing repeat prescriptions to women for more than 12 months without face-to-face consultations with them.
It also wants routine checks at family planning clinics to include discussions about the risks of sodium valproate in pregnancy.
Image copyright Science Photo Library

Its chief executive Clare Pelham, said the survey showed that the number of women who had never had a conversation with their doctor about the risks of the drug was "stubbornly high, hovering around 20%".
She added: "Thousands of babies have been born with disabilities whose mothers were totally unaware of the risks - and will continue to be, if nothing is done.
"Politicians don't very often get the chance to do something as important as this for mothers and babies; and even less often is it so simple and so inexpensive."
The results of the survey will be presented next week to the European Medicines Agency, which will examine whether current warnings are adequate.
'Redouble efforts'

The Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK says valproate had been, "kept under constant review and as new data have become available, the warnings have been updated".
The MHRA said: "The results of the survey are important in helping us understand the effectiveness of the measures taken to date in the UK.
We want to encourage all women to have access to the valproate toolkit materials that we made available in February 2016.
"We constantly monitor the safe use of valproate and support this latest review by the European Medicines Agency on the use in pregnancy and women of childbearing age."
Its advice is that patients should not stop taking the medicine without consulting their doctor.
Prof Helen Stokes-Lampard, chair of the Royal College of GPs, said: "Any incidences in which valproate has been prescribed with pregnant women are a cause for concern.
"We call on all agencies to redouble efforts to ensure that the most up to date warnings are widely distributed to all healthcare professionals and patients - and the RCGP will continue to play our part in ensuring we achieve this.
"Patients should never hesitate to raise any concerns they have about valproate, or any other medication, with their GP or other health professional."
The Association of British Neurologists said it was working closely with the MHRA to ensure that any young woman who is taking sodium valproate is fully aware of - and reminded of - the risks of becoming pregnant while taking this treatment.
Image copyright PA Image caption Some trusts saw the number of staff taking long-term leave double in five years

The number of NHS mental health staff who have had to take sick leave because of their own mental health issues has risen by 22% in the past five years.
Those taking long-term leave of a month or more rose from 7,580 in 2012-13 to 9,285 in 2016-17, BBC freedom of information requests found.
The union Unite said cuts to staff and services were putting extra pressure on front-line mental health workers.
The Department of Health said it was transforming mental health care.
Out of 81 mental health authorities in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, 58 provided the BBC with comparable information.
Looking after ourselves

One mental health doctor who had to take mental health leave told 5 live anonymously: "I don't think I realised it was happening until quite a long way down the road."
She explained that she was getting irritable with her partner, her sleep was disturbed and she couldn't switch off from work.
"In the end, I went to my GP who offered me a sick note.
I was quite taken aback that it was quite so obvious to my GP that I needed to be off work."
she said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Former mental health nurse on why she had to leave the NHS

"As mental health practitioners, we are pretty rubbish at putting our own mental health first.
You need to put your own oxygen mask on first before putting it on to someone else."
5 live also spoke to a group of community mental health nurses at the Leeds and York Partnership NHS Foundation Trust about how they cope with the pressure of the role.
"I think when you're so passionate about something it's very easy to overlook just how much you are taking on," said Kate Ward, an occupational therapist working as a care co-ordinator in the team.
She said it was important for staff to understand what their thresholds are, recognising the early signs of their resilience getting chipped away.
"We think we are this person that can help everybody, but we have to remember that we have to help ourselves sometimes," Julie Poole, a community mental health nurse, explained.
Image caption Community mental health nurses spoke to 5 live about the pressures they face

Dave Munday, mental health professional lead at union Unite, which represents 100,000 health workers across the UK, said: "These figures are of real concern and they only tell part of the story.
"We know that many more mental health professionals will feel unwell but try to 'soldier on' or mask the real reason they're taking leave.
"Our members tell us workplace stress is increasing and that cuts to staff and services mean they're working longer hours with fewer resources.
"Staff themselves are feeling the impact of austerity and there's a lack of trust in the often repeated but not fulfilled promises of the current government."
Not good enough

A spokesman for the Royal College of Nursing said: "Mental health staff face unique challenges.
The pressure to make the right decision and provide care for extremely vulnerable people against a backdrop of staff shortages, can take its toll on their health and wellbeing.
"More than 40,000 mental health staff are assaulted every year, and too often violence is seen as 'part of the job' by employers, and the authorities.
"This isn't good enough.
We want to see action on work-related stress, including violence at work which, as well as physical injuries, adds to burnout stress, and depression."
The Department of Health said: "We are transforming mental health care for everyone in this country, including NHS employees, with record amounts of investment.
"There is more to do - that is why we are undertaking one of the largest expansions of mental health services in Europe, so that all staff have the time to look after themselves as well as others."
Hear more from State of Mind, 5 live's mental health season
Image caption The warning has been on the outside of valproate pill packets since last year in Britain

Women whose children have been harmed by the epilepsy drug sodium valproate will give evidence to a European-wide safety review in London next week.
The European Medicines Agency will examine whether warnings about risks to unborn babies are strong enough.
About 20,000 babies in the UK alone have been left with disabilities since valproate was introduced in the 1970s.
The medicines regulator said warnings had been updated as more information had become available.
Many women whose babies were affected say nobody warned them of the extent of the dangers.
Valproate is an effective treatment for epilepsy, bipolar disorders and migraine - and doctors prescribe it because it is the best option for some women.
Instructions for doctors - and, more recently, patient leaflets - say valproate should not be used during pregnancy unless there is no safer alternative and only after a careful discussion of the risks.
Babies exposed to valproate medicines in the womb have a 10% chance of developing physical abnormalities.
And they have a four in 10 chance of developing cognitive problems, such as learning disabilities and autism.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Three of Julie Marjot's children have been affected by sodium valproate

Julie Marjot, from Norfolk, says it wasn't until her last child was born that she was told the pills she took had harmed three of her four children.
"As time went by and we had more children, we saw more paediatricians, we saw GPs, we saw midwives, we saw all of these healthcare professionals.
"Why did it take for me to have four children before somebody finally said, 'That child looks like it has got sodium valproate syndrome,'?"
Her seven-year-old daughter, 11-year-old son and 21-year-old daughter have all been affected.
Scientific papers as early as the 1980s suggested valproate medicines were dangerous to developing babies.
More evidence emerged throughout the 1990s.
In 2005, UK patient information leaflets included concerns about delayed development in children.
Last year, warnings were also added to the outside of valproate pill packets in Britain.
'Constant review'

Medicines watchdog the MHRA said: "It is important women don't stop taking valproate without first discussing it with their doctor.
"The decision to use any medicine in pregnancy requires a careful evaluation of the benefits and risks to both the woman and to her unborn child.
"When considering the known risks of valproate, it is important to remember that untreated epilepsy and bipolar disorder can also carry serious risks.
"As with all medicines, the safety of valproate in pregnancy has been kept under constant review, and as new data have become available, the warnings have been updated."
In France, 1,200 families are preparing to sue the drug manufacturer Sanofi, accusing it of failing to sufficiently inform women of the risks.
The French government is supporting the legal action and has put aside about 9m (10m) to compensate the families.
In 2010, families in England and Wales had to abandon a court case when their legal aid was withdrawn three weeks before the case was due to begin.
They signed letters promising never to sue again, and in return were not billed for Sanofi's multi-million pound legal costs.
They are now calling for a judge-led public enquiry.
'Real dilemma'

A statement from Sanofi said it was "deeply touched by the distress of those who are so affected".
The company said it would review the data on the risk-minimisation measures currently in place.
"Sanofi will reinforce the fact that sodium valproate is an important molecule that epileptic women continue to rely on, even today, to control seizures, to avoid a potentially fatal seizure during their lifetime, including during pregnancy."
It said doctors needed a range of therapeutic options to help women with epilepsy through pregnancy.
"It is critical that both the risks of continuing treatment and the risks of stopping treatment are discussed before planning a pregnancy, bearing in mind that other medications also have risks.
"It should be acknowledged that there is a real dilemma faced by physicians and women who have no other alternatives to control their seizure.
"Everyone in the healthcare system has a role to ensure that the risks as well as the benefits of valproate are understood."
Image copyright Papworth Hospital Image caption The pioneering techniques at Papworth Hospital have been recognised by the Queen

One of Europe's leading heart and lung hospitals - Papworth - has been granted a royal title by the Queen.
The hospital near Cambridge, which carried out heart surgery on the Duke of Edinburgh in 2011, will become Royal Papworth Hospital.
The UK's first successful heart transplant was carried out there in 1979 and the world's first successful heart, lung and liver transplant took place there in 1986.
Its name officially changes in 2018.
Next year marks the 100th anniversary of the hospital, which opened as a tuberculosis colony in the small Cambridgeshire village of Papworth Everard in 1918.
Image copyright Cambridgeshire Archives Image caption Papworth was founded as a colony for people with tuberculosis in 1918

Image copyright Cambridgeshire Archives Image caption The hospital has been in the village for 100 years but will move to Cambridge in 2018

Since then the hospital has become renowned for its pioneering cardiothoracic procedures, treating more than 100,000 patients from across the UK each year.
In 2015 its surgeons were the first in Europe to successfully perform a heart transplant using a non-beating heart.
More than 30 such operations have been carried out since then, increasing its transplant rate by more than one third.
Image copyright Cambridgeshire Archives Image caption The hospital became famous for its treatments and for helping people to return to work after convalescence

Image copyright Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Image caption The pioneering work of Papworth's surgeons and staff is recognised throughout the world

The title will make Papworth the first "royal" hospital in the east of England, a spokesman said.
It has been bestowed "in recognition of its pioneering history and continued commitment to developing the treatments of the future", he added.
Prof John Wallwork, chairman of Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, and the surgeon who jointly performed the first heart, lung and liver transplant, said he was "thrilled to see the hospital get this recognition from the Queen".
The hospital is to move to Cambridge Biomedical Campus - the site which houses Addenbrooke's Hospital - next year.
Image copyright Papworth Hospital Image caption Staff were "thrilled" by the news of the new title

Image copyright Papworth Hospital Image caption The new 165m hospital will have 310 beds

The 165m 310-bed new hospital will replace the current 276-bed facility.
It is not yet known what will happen to the old hospital site.
Image caption The Stoptober campaign runs from 1 October

The annual Stoptober campaign in England is embracing e-cigarettes for the first time - in a sign vaping is being seen as the key to getting people to quit.
Health experts have tended to shy away from explicitly promoting e-cigarettes.
But the government campaign during October will feature vaping in its TV adverts for the first time.
It comes after e-cigarettes proved the most popular tool for quitting during last year's campaign.
Some 53% of people used them, helping push the numbers of people taking part in Stoptober since its launch in 2012 to over 1.5 million.
E-cigarettes are not yet officially prescribed on the NHS.
However, doctors and other health professionals are encouraged to advise smokers who want to use them that they are a better alternative to smoking.
New draft guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) does not list e-cigarettes as a recommendation to help people quit, but says patients should be told some smokers have found them helpful when they want to give up.
NICE advises that patients should be told that there "is currently little evidence on the long-term benefits or harms of these products".
But government experts behind the Stoptober campaign have been encouraged by newly released research suggesting record numbers of attempts to give up are proving successful.
University College London researchers found 20% of attempts were successful in the first six months of 2017, compared with an average of 16% over the previous 10 years.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Could vaping help smokers stub out cigarettes for good?
A successful attempt was judged to be one where the person had tried to stop smoking in the past year and was still abstaining at the time of the survey.
The biggest rise in successful attempts to quit was among people from poorer backgrounds, who have traditionally been the least likely to give up.
Image copyright Other Image caption The Stoptober TV advert features a man in an allotment using an e-cigarette

The government's deputy chief medical officer Prof Gina Radford said e-cigarettes were playing an important role and, as they had "95% less harmful products" in them than normal cigarettes, it was only right that they were promoted during Stoptober.
But she also said there were a number of other factors that were proving effective in reducing smoking rates, including restrictions that have been brought in such as standardised packaging and bans on displays in shops.
Of the new draft guidance for health professionals, Prof Radford told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "What for the first time NICE is saying is we recognise that e-cigarettes are being used by people to help them quit.
"Therefore, engage people in a discussion about how they are using them, encourage them to be using them only as part of a quit attempt tell them clearly whilst they are much less harmful than tobacco cigarettes, they are not without all harm."
Is smoking being stubbed out?
15.5% Over 18s smoked in England in 2016 26.8% Over 18s smoked in England in 2000

1 in 5 Attempts to quit successful in early 2017

5 "Stoptober" campaigns have been run

Over 1.5m have tried quit during them PA

Latest figures suggest just over 15% of people were smoking in 2016, down from 21% in 2007, when the smoking ban was introduced, and over 26% at the turn of the century.
As smoking has decreased, vaping has increased.
About one in 20 people over 16 regularly uses e-cigarettes currently - a quarter of them are smokers or ex-smokers.
But Prof Radford said: "The battle against smoking is far from over - it is still the country's biggest killer, causing 79,000 deaths a year.
"And for every death, another 20 smokers are suffering smoking-related disease."
Meanwhile, NHS Health Scotland has stated for the first time that e-cigarettes are "definitely" less harmful than smoking tobacco.
Read more from Nick

Follow Nick on Twitter
Video

Almost 50m of fake Viagra has been confiscated in the last five years.
Raids are being carried out to try to crack down on the problem.
Video

Ex-Norwich City player Cedric Anselin has spoken about his battle with mental health issues.
The French under-21 International, who now coaches young footballers, told how depression led him to contemplate taking his life multiple times a day.
If you, or someone you know, have been affected by mental health issues, support can be found here.
Video

Three people who have gone through cancer treatment on what they would write to the disease.
Inspired by BBC presenter Victoria Derbyshire's book 'Dear Cancer, Love Victoria', 5live asked three people at the Christie hospital to write their own letter to the disease.
Film by Nick Garnett.
This clip is from Afternoon Edition on 20 September 2017.
Video

Women whose children have been harmed by the epilepsy drug sodium valproate will give evidence to a European-wide safety review in London next week.
Three of Julie Marjot's children have been affected by sodium valproate.
'It's a myth you're just going to have a lump'

Ellie, who was diagnosed with Hodgkin Lymphoma when she was 15, describes the symptoms of blood cancer.
How to tell your child you have cancer?
Its one of the hardest things a parent can do, so UCLH Cancer Collaborative has released an animated film with advice on how to talk to children about a cancer diagnosis.
Video

A BBC reporter has filmed an emotional diary about living with breast cancer in the hope it will help other women.
Satnam Rana, who's the arts and culture reporter for BBC Midlands Today, is due to undergo a mastectomy.
She said there was no history of breast cancer in her family and she wants to urge other women to check themselves regularly.
Video

Sarah Walton was left severely disabled when the measles infection she had as a child returned 24 years later.
Her mother Jo says she feels she cheated her daughter because she did not know more about the benefits of vaccinating her.
She had not been planning to take up the vaccine for Sarah, when her daughter contracted measles at 11 months old.
Now she says the government should consider penalties against parents who choose not to vaccinate their children.
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News channel.
Image copyright Saifee Hospital Image caption Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty rose to the world's attention after an online campaign to help her

An Egyptian woman once believed to be the world's heaviest has died in the United Arab Emirates.
Eman Ahmed Abd El Aty had travelled to India earlier this year for bariatric weight loss surgery.
Local media reported that she had lost more than 300kg (660lb) of her 500kg but had died from complications from other health conditions.
A hospital statement said the 37-year-old had heart disease and kidney dysfunction.
"Our prayers and heartfelt condolences go out to her family," said the hospital.
Ms Abd El Aty had been in the UAE capital Abu Dhabi since May after being transferred following specialist surgery in Mumbai, India.
Image copyright Saiffee hospital Image caption Ms Abd El Aty lost a significant amount of weight after being put on a liquid diet in India

Before the surgery, her family said, she had not left her house for 25 years.
After an online campaign by her sister, she was able to travel to Mumbai on a chartered plane for help from an Indian surgeon.
However, she was transferred again after her family fell out publicly with the Mumbai medical team.
The family had cast doubt on its claims about her weight loss.
Bariatric surgery, also known as weight loss surgery, is used as a last resort to treat people who are dangerously obese - i.e.
having a body mass index of 40 or above, or 35 plus other obesity-related health conditions.
Image copyright Joan Costa Image caption The skeleton of a boy that shattered our view of Neanderthal brain development

A new study shows that Neanderthal brains developed more slowly than ours.
An analysis of a Neanderthal child's skeleton suggests that its brain was still developing at a time when the brains of modern human children are fully formed.
This is further evidence that this now extinct human was not more brutish and primitive than our species.
The research has been published in the journal Science.
Until now it had been thought that we were the only species whose brains developed relatively slowly.
Unlike other apes and more primitive humans, Homo sapiens has an extended period of childhood lasting several years.
This is because it takes time and energy to develop our large brain.
Previous studies of Neanderthal remains indicated that they developed more quickly than modern humans - suggesting that their brains might be less sophisticated.
But a team led by Prof Antonio Rosas of the Museum of Natural Sciences in Madrid found that if anything, Neanderthal brains may have developed more slowly than ours.
"It was a surprise," he told BBC News.
"When we started the study we were expecting something similar to the previous studies."
Image copyright Paleoanthropology Group MNCN-CSIC] Image caption The remains were discovered inside the El Sidrn cave in Asturias, Spain.
Prof Rosas and his team believe they are right and the previous studies are wrong because for the first time they were able to study a relatively complete skeleton of a child at a crucial stage in their development.
It was of a boy, who was nearly seven-and-a-half years old when he died.
His bones were found in the 49,000-year-old site of El Sidrn, in Spain.
The boy's remains are exceptionally well preserved and include a mix of baby and adult teeth, which enabled the team to accurately determine his age.
This brain is estimated to have been 87.5% of the size of an average adult Neanderthal brain upon death.
A modern human child at the same general age would have, on average, a brain that was 95% the size of an adult's.
The researchers also found that some of the small bones forming the boy's backbone were not fused.
In modern humans, these bones tend to fuse by the time children reach the age of six.
Image copyright Joan Costa Image caption The researchers were surprised to discover that Neanderthal brains develop more slowly

According to Prof Rosas, the finding reinforces the idea that Neanderthals were not that different from us.
The brutish picture of Neanderthals is an old one.
In the last few years there has been growing evidence to suggest that they were a distinct human species with some small differences.
Now we can say that their growth pattern is similar to ours, too.
The finding raises the intriguing possibility that the Neanderthals' slightly slower brain development meant that their brains might have been more advanced than ours.
But Prof Rosas prefers a more prosaic interpretation.
"Neanderthals have a larger brain and larger body and so it is logical to think that the brain of the Neanderthal continues to grow for a little longer to allow their brains and bodies to get to their adult size," he explained.
Before this finding, scientists believed that modern humans were the slowest growing species.
Now we know that Neanderthals took slightly longer, suggesting that both species inherited this growth pattern from a now extinct common ancestor.
Follow Pallab on Twitter
The claim: We pay more on debt interest than on NHS pay.
Reality Check verdict: If you use the Office for Budget Responsibility's headline figure for debt interest then we actually spend more on NHS pay.
With nurses demonstrating in Parliament Square against the pay cap this week, Prime Minister Theresa May was asked by Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn about whether public sector workers could be paid more.
She replied by blaming the last Labour government for the amount of debt the country has, saying: "As a result of the decisions the Labour Party took in government we now have to pay more on debt interest than on NHS pay."
Reality Check asked Downing Street for the figures to back this up and were told that in 2016-17 debt interest costs were expected to have been 49.1bn while NHS staff costs the same year were 48.1bn.
Let's look at those figures in turn.
The debt interest costs figure comes from the Office for Budget Responsibility's (OBR) economic and fiscal outlook from the time of the Budget in March.
The tricky thing with this figure is that the OBR comes up with two numbers depending on whether or not you count what's known as the Asset Purchase Facility (APF).
As part of its attempts to stimulate the economy, the Bank of England has bought a large amount of UK government bonds.
The government has to pay interest on those bonds, so it makes interest payments to the Bank of England.
But once a quarter, the Bank of England returns those interest payments to the government.
The OBR's headline figure doesn't count the money which has been returned as part of government spending.
In 2016-17 it was 36.0bn.
The one used by Theresa May ignores the fact the money was returned to government coffers, so totals 49.1bn.
Image copyright EPA

The figure for NHS pay is a surprisingly difficult one to give a definitive answer to.
The number Downing Street gave comes from the Department of Health annual report and accounts.
The figure of 48.1bn is for all permanently employed staff of the departmental group, which means it includes people working full-time for the NHS in England as well as those working for the Department of Health and arm's length bodies such as Public Health England.
It includes employer national insurance contributions and pension contributions.
It does not include anyone working for the NHS in Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland because staff there are paid by the devolved administrations.
It also does not include anyone employed via an agency, on a temporary contract, or most staff working in GP surgeries.
We asked NHS Digital to come up with a figure for only the salaries of NHS England staff and they gave us the remarkably precise figure of 39,450,395,739.60, i.e.
about 39.5bn.
NHS Digital warns that the figure is lower than it should be because it excludes data for two hospital trusts and also does not include maternity pay or sick pay.
As with the Department of Health figures, it also does not include figures for the NHS outside England or for GP practices.
But even this figure is higher than the amount spent on debt interest when the APF is taken into account.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Image caption Paola Valenzuela was not allowed to have an abortion even though the foetus was not viable

Paola Valenzuela was 40 years old when she found out she was pregnant with her second child.
"My husband and I were so excited about having another child and my son, who was nine at the time, was very happy about the idea of having a little brother," she recalls.
But when she went for her first scan, Ms Valenzuela was told the foetus was not developing properly.
"It was a terrible blow for all of us," she says.
The doctor told her to wait to see if its condition improved but a second scan revealed that the baby had amniotic band syndrome, which can cause a number of different birth defects.
In the case of Ms Valenzuela's baby, his organs were growing outside of his body and he was covered in tumours.
She recalls how her husband asked how long the baby would live and how the doctor explained that there was no way he would survive outside the womb.
"I asked the doctor to help me have an abortion," Ms Venezuela says.
'Keep praying'

But Paola Valenzuela lives in Chile, one of seven countries in the world where abortion is completely banned.
Image caption Reproductive rights groups have been campaigning for a change in Chile's strict abortion law

The doctor told Ms Valenzuela that it was not legally possible to have an abortion and that she should keep praying.
Read more:

"My pregnancy was a terrible time for me and my family, they saw me suffering and they didn't know what to say.
My son kept asking when his little brother was going to die, because he knew he could die at any time."
When she was 23 weeks pregnant, Ms Valenzuela's waters finally broke and she went to hospital.
She says that the first thing she asked when her baby was born was whether he was alive.
"The nurses said no."
One of them asked Ms Valenzuela if she wanted to see the baby.
Knowing what she knew from the scan, she asked them to cover the baby's body with a blanket and to only leave his feet uncovered, which she knew to be unaffected.
"So I could say goodbye to his feet," she says.
"Then they took him away and the next day we buried him," she adds with tears in her eyes.
'No more suffering'

Ms Valenzuela does not want any other women to go through what she experienced.
Image caption Ms Valenzuela has given testimony in favour of a change in the law so others "won't have to suffer"

That is why she is backing President Michelle Bachelet's drive to change Chile's laws to allow for abortions in the case of rape, if the mother's life is at risk or if the foetus will not survive the pregnancy.
Despite surveys showing that 70% of the population back the change, there has been stiff opposition from religious groups and right-wing sectors of society.
Watch: "Abortion scars you for life": One Chilean woman on why she opposes a change in the law

After two years of debate, the bill has now been approved by both houses of Congress.
But the country's constitutional court has yet to decide whether the bill is at odds with a provision in Chile's constitution which protects the life of the unborn.
A decision is expected on Friday.
The court has been hearing the testimony of activists from both sides, including Ms Valenzuela.
'Women need this law'

Coming out of the court surrounded by women from reproductive rights group Miles, Ms Valenzuela was smiling.
Image caption Members of reproductive rights group Miles have been vocal campaigners for the change in the law

"My heart is racing and I feel so nervous," she says before striking a more serious note.
"The other women who gave their testimonies in court and I have suffered a lot," she says.
"In my case I had to go through a pregnancy knowing that when my baby was born he would die" she says.
"We don't want other women to suffer like us."
Ms Valenzuela knows that not all Chileans agree with her.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Those opposed to lifting the total ban have also been campaigning

Religious groups determined to stop the law from going through have also been giving their testimonies before the court, arguing that all human life is sacred and should be protected by law.
But Ms Valenzuela is adamant that Chilean woman "need this law".
"It's not fair that we have to endure this unnecessary pain.
Other women shouldn't have to go through the torture that I did."
Just over a year ago Lesley and Neal Davison received a phone call telling them their daughter was about to be sectioned.
She'd tried to kill herself.
For years Megan had been keeping a secret.
She had an eating disorder.
But she hid it so well, nobody in her family ever realised.
On 4 August, aged 27, she hanged herself and left a six-page suicide note.
Megan had diabulimia.
The term refers to the combined impact of type 1 diabetes with an eating disorder.
The condition is not yet medically recognised.
"She left us a very detailed note and she felt there was no hope for her, that there was nothing in place to help people with her condition," her mum Lesley tells Newsbeat.
"In the absence of the help she needed, she couldn't see any way of carrying on."
Type 1 diabetes is an irreversible autoimmune disease which requires constant care.
Every time a patient eats carbohydrates they must also inject insulin.
They must check their blood sugar levels frequently.
People with type 1 diabetes need insulin to stay alive.
Diabulimia refers to diabetic people who deliberately take too little insulin in order to lose weight.
Doing this can be incredibly dangerous.
"The one thing that not taking your insulin does, is you lose weight - you have an ideal tool," explains Lesley.
She says that "Megan sometimes looked a bit thin but there was never anything that would indicate anything extreme".
Experts say there are potentially thousands like Megan who are seemingly living a "normal" life but hiding their illness.
The leading type 1 diabetes charity JDRF estimates 60,000 15 to 30-year-olds are living with T1 in the UK.
Professor Khalida Ismail is lead psychiatrist for diabetes at King's Health Partners, London.
She runs the only outpatient clinic in the UK specifically for people with diabulimia.
"You can look quite well and have a normal body size," she tells Newsbeat.
"And yet because you're restricting insulin, you are running very high blood sugars and you are increasing your risk of diabetes complications."
She explains that this can include damage to the eyes, kidneys and nerve endings.
After Megan's death her family found there was an "inner circle" who knew more about her illness, including three friends and her boyfriend of six years.
"Like the loyal boyfriend, I was sworn to secrecy," Andy tells Newsbeat.
In her note Megan talks of her treatment in an eating disorder inpatient unit.
She describes managing her own insulin because "not one member of staff on the ward was even trained to administer insulin let alone understand it".
"They gave me back my insulin because they couldn't figure out the doses.
"It's the equivalent of giving an alcoholic vodka or giving a bulimic a bottle of laxatives."
Her parents want Megan's story to be known to help other families.
"The information they're getting is just wrong for them," says Lesley.
"It might be the best that's available for the moment but it isn't anywhere near good enough."
She adds that Megan "needed something that was specific" to the condition and "not a sort of ad hoc of pieces that didn't really do the job".
DWED (Diabetics With Eating Disorders) campaigns for the omission of insulin for weight loss to be recognised as a mental illness.
Founder Jacqueline Allan says diabulimia is still not viewed in the right way.
"The second you stop taking your insulin you're in the same amount of danger, regardless of your weight."
Prof Ismail agrees and says psychiatrists need to "wake up" to diabulimia.
"The condition is very hidden," she says.
"Diabetes teams don't know how to talk to patients about it.
"Eating disorder teams only see the extreme cases."
She wants diabulimia to be recognised formally.
"Once psychiatrists start talking about it, debating it, awareness will grow."
Megan's dad Neal says they knew so little they would have been in "no-man's land" without the letter.
"I honestly don't know how we would have coped with it."
"She didn't want us upset," adds Lesley.
"And yet you end up devastated because nobody has been able to help her."
Tim Kendall, NHS England's national clinical director for mental health, tells Newsbeat that "people are waking up to it".
"I was involved in producing the NICE guidelines on eating disorders and we devoted a whole section on how you manage people who've got diabetes and an eating disorder.
"We're now disseminating that around the country.
We have been asleep, no doubt, but we are waking up."
NHS England says it's integrating psychological services with physical health, including placing 3,000 new mental health therapists in GP practices.
For more information on diabulimia you can look at these information and support pages.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Video

On average in 2016, there were two acid attacks a day.
2017 is now projected to be the year with the highest number of attacks ever recorded in the UK.
Over the past few years there has been a change in the way acid has been used.
No longer just associated with shame or honour attacks, acid is now a weapon used by moped thieves as well as a means of settling gang disputes.
We follow four separate acid attack victims who highlight this growing trend.
Mary Russell, a black woman with dwarfism, set off on a 21-day, 900-mile trip down the Ho Chi Minh trail with five other disabled people.
She imagined it would be a unifying experience, but in fact she felt isolated among people she thought would be more like her.
"What made it for me was the beautiful scenic views," she says.
"How can you be miserable when you're looking at mountains?"
But in fact, for some of the time at least, Russell would feel more isolated and different than she had done before as she filmed for the BBC One programme, Without Limits: Vietnam.
Russell is used to her difference.
She grew up as one of nine children, but the only one with achondroplasia - a common cause of dwarfism - and her skin-colour could also cause issue in 1970s Yorkshire when "awareness just wasn't there".
For the journey through Vietnam, Russell, 48, travelled in a vehicle with Vicky Balch, who lost her leg in the Alton Towers rollercoaster accident and Steve Brown, a Paralympic wheelchair rugby player who's paralysed from the chest down.
Image copyright Mary Russell

Louise Halvey, who has progressive hearing loss, travelled on a motorbike alongside Charlie Lewis, who opted for a right leg amputation after a snowboard accident, and Andy Slade who lost an arm in an industrial accident.
But there was a new kind of difference here - Russell was the only one of the six to have always had a disability rather than having acquired it later in life.
"The group had all gone through something quite traumatic and I had to try to figure out where I fit in with that," she says.
The rest of the group were able to talk together about how they became disabled by accident or illness and how it made them feel but Mary felt left out because she had never had that experience.
"It was hard because they weren't born this way, they lived most of their life mingling with society, and at times I felt like I needed a limb missing so I could feel part of the group."
The team travelled from the north to the south of the country and spent up to seven hours a day in the car, which she describes as "really rough".
As the others bonded over coming to terms with a new impairment, Russell became affected by what she acknowledges as her main disability - depression.
"My mood dipped almost immediately," she says.
The atmosphere in the car soured at times and arguments broke out.
The group were often short on sleep and the travelling could be uncomfortable.
"I've struggled with depression, which nobody really understands because they automatically think it's the dwarfism that holds me back, but at times, mental health is my biggest challenge."
Russell says she identified the slump in her mood early on in the journey when she "felt like I was going out of control".
She became fractious and tearful and with no one to confide in she told the whole group how she felt.
"I didn't want people to think this was how I usually am," she says.
"They said they were completely unaware I felt isolated but were grateful I had spoken and they became more inclusive."
At home in London, Russell uses cycling as a "remedy" for her depression and when the group visited a village they spotted a boy with a bike.
He was persuaded to lend it to her and she free-wheeled down the hill which gave her some relief.
Russell says the group provoked intrigue wherever they went, but she felt she received a "double stare".
"I stood out for sure," she says.
"I have the condition and I'm of colour."
Mary's short stature often prompted laughter from Vietnamese locals which she found overwhelming at times.
"For some reason dwarfism as a disability always seems to be the butt of jokes and when they saw me they wanted to laugh, which is the battle we always have.
"They wouldn't touch me ... but people were fascinated by the others and wanted to touch their prosthetic legs."
But there was an unexpected moment of joy one day which made Russell confront her own judgements.
"I met a guy, a dwarf, when we went shopping.
He was stood outside his shop and at first I walked on by.
"For a moment I slipped into 'old Mary' where I wasn't comfortable with seeing someone like myself, but I made myself go back and say 'hello' to him.
Image copyright Mary Russell

"I immediately connected with him, we shook hands and hugged.
It was the highlight of my trip."
The group all completed the journey, weary but fulfilled.
Russell remains close to Halvey and Slade who made her see her own prejudices.
"They helped me and gave me support," she says.
"They're both bikers so I didn't think I'd get on with them, but we hit it off and it made me realise you really can't judge anyone."
Russell has taken part in reality TV before - in 2014 she appeared on the disability dating show, The Undateables.
The positive response she got from that boosted her confidence and she was signed to model agency, Models of Diversity, which has led to numerous photo-shoots and a fashion runway in Japan.
Image copyright Mary Russell

"From The Undateables onwards I started to find out things about myself - positive and negative," she says.
"Even if it upsets me I'm emptying out all the hurt and developing as a person."
Though the Vietnam trip brought unwanted attention to her differences, Russell says it has made her accept herself in a new way.
"It made me realise that my limbs might be shorter, but they're functional and I can use them and should be grateful.
"I want to go to more places where there are less people like me.
Everyone needs to see that this is what's in the world."
Mary Russell's roadtrip story is told on Without Limits: Vietnam.
The second episode will be broadcast Thursday 21 September at 20:00 on BBC One, and will be available to watch via BBC iPlayer for 30 days afterwards.
For more Disability News, follow BBC Ouch on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to the weekly podcast.
Image copyright Getty Images

NHS bosses are warning we should be braced for a bad flu season.
They cite the experience of Australia and New Zealand, which have just gone through their winters.
What happens there, they say, tends to be a good pointer to how flu spreads in the UK.
How bad has it been in Australia and New Zealand?
They've certainly had their worst flu season for a number of years.
Like the UK, the past few winters have seen pretty low levels of flu circulating.
But this winter it has been different.
Figures up to the end of August - not even the end of their winter - suggest there was nearly double the number of cases of flu than the average over the past five winters.
Reports have emerged of hospitals struggling, which is why NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens raised the alarm in a speech on Tuesday.
Last year, the NHS went through its worst winter in a generation.
And already hospital bosses have warned this winter could be worse given long waiting times and bed shortages over the summer.
Mr Stevens is concerned flu could tip the health service over the edge as well as posing a threat to vulnerable groups, such as the elderly.
Image copyright Thinkstock

How have people been affected?
There is nothing particularly special about this flu - just that there is lots of it around.
The symptoms include a high temperature, tiredness, weakness, general aches and pains and a dry, chesty cough.
High-risk groups, such older people, pregnant women and those who have long-term medical conditions or a weakened immune system, are at risk of complications.
The most common of which are chest infections.
Is the UK guaranteed to be hit?
Every winter there are a few strains circulating.
But one normally becomes dominant.
In Australia and New Zealand that was the H3N2 strain.
Will the same happen here?
It's not a given - and there's certainly some debate about how closely our winters match the pattern elsewhere.
But if it does, the good news is that the early indications are that the vaccine that has been produced this year is pretty effective against that strain.
That's not always the case.
Last year the vaccine was less effective among the elderly than other groups.
Image copyright jandrielombard/ Thinkstock

How do I get the vaccine?
You can get the flu jab free on the NHS if you are aged over 65, pregnant or have an underlying health condition which puts you at risk of serious complications from flu.
Children aged six months to two years at risk of flu are also entitled to a free flu jab.
A flu nasal spray is available free to three-year-olds and some children at primary school.
Front-line health and social care workers are also eligible to receive the flu vaccine.
GP surgeries will be able to give the jab and some local pharmacies may be able to as well.
Is there a way I can get the jab if I'm not eligible?
If you want to protect yourself against flu and you're not in one of the groups above, you can buy the flu jab from high street pharmacies.
Very few people are unable to have the jab, but you should avoid it if you have had a serious allergic reaction to it before.
If I had the flu jab last year, do I need it again?
Flu strains often change and so protection given by the flu vaccine gradually decreases over time.
That's why new flu jabs are produced each year and why vulnerable adults and children are advised to have it every year too.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption These photos of Alison Morton were taken a few hours apart.
Fibromyalgia is an invisible illness, meaning that at times it is not immediately apparent

Alison Morton was 25 years old when she started experiencing pain in her muscles and joints.
Doctors removed her gall bladder - but after symptoms didn't improve, she was eventually diagnosed with fibromyalgia, a widespread condition that affects the musculoskeletal system.
Four years on, it leaves her with "profound fatigue" and constant pain.
"When you get diagnosed, you think that there will be something that can be done," she says.
"But unfortunately there's no cure.
"It literally takes over my body and I can't control it.
I'm just out of it."
People with the illness say it feels like their muscles are pulled or overworked.
Their muscles can twitch and burn.
Invisible illness

Alison experiences "brain fog", struggling to remember names, directions and "getting very confused a lot of the time".
It prevents her from working.
She says one of the biggest difficulties is that it is an invisible illness and not immediately apparent.
"You're 25, you look like a normal 25-year-old woman, but inside there's a lot going on.
"Your central nervous system is all affected, but it's hard to see that, and that's hard to explain."
This means it can take some people a long time to be diagnosed.
"There are still a lot of GPs that don't believe it's a real condition," Alison says.
This is despite some estimates suggesting nearly one in 20 people may have the condition to some degree.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption Alison has learned to live in constant pain

After she was diagnosed, Alison's rheumatologist referred her to Newcastle Pain Management.
"They completely changed my life," she says, teaching her ways to prepare mentally to be in pain for the rest of her life.
"There's a lot of grieving to do - lots of little things can bring it up, when you realise you can't do something," she says.
She worked with a physiologist and a pain psychologist.
"It's all about pain management, making the pain less so you can still have a fulfilling life," Alison says.
For Alison, this means yoga stretches, medication and a machine that stimulates her nerves with electricity.
"Mindfulness has really helped me to deal with the emotions that come up when you have to deal with persistent pain."
Managing pain

She also writes lists to cope with her memory loss.
"Everyone reacts differently to different pain management techniques.
For example, exercise might work for some but not for others," she says.
"So, it's hard to break down those perceptions as well."
Despite the strategies, Alison's pain is still constant and can flare up when triggered by stress or doing too much.
She says she could not have got through it without the help of her loved ones.
"My family has been so supportive, especially my dad.
I've been very lucky in that sense."
Telling her story has also helped.
She has recently moved to Darlington with her boyfriend and chairs Newcastle's fibromyalgia awareness group.
She says: "Compared to when I first got diagnosed, I feel now I am able to live a much more fulfilled life."
For more information visit: http://www.fmauk.org/
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jennifer, Kirsty, Kate and Amie (from left) drink mocktails and an alcohol-free beer

Amie used to drink 30 pints in a weekend to "keep up with the boys".
"I could neck three bottles of wine and not think about it," said the 38-year-old from Derbyshire.
Her drinking was so extreme that she contemplated suicide: "I thought well, stuff's got to change."
For Jennifer, it caused her relationship with her partner to break down: "I was like a different person when I was drinking - I had blackouts," she said.
A report last year found women are now almost on a par with men when it comes to problematic drinking.
Stealth drinking

Both Amie and Jennifer had had enough of hangovers - and decided to give up alcohol.
They are doing it with the help of one programme designed to help people stop drinking called One Year No Beer, a scheme people pay to join which gives them strategies to help them to go alcohol-free.
One tactic is known as stealth drinking, where people pretend their non-alcoholic drink is alcohol, for example by getting a non-alcoholic beer in a pint glass topped up with lemonade.
One Year No Beer has seen a 10-fold increase in membership this year alone.
The alcohol-free drinks market is booming too.
In only five years, the amount of low or alcohol-free beer sold in the UK has risen by nearly 50%.
And the world's first alcohol-free spirit Seedlip launched 21 months ago.
In 12 months, it experienced a 1,000% rise in sales.
There are now clubs for people who want to get together without alcohol and the UK's first alcohol-free drinking festival was held in London last month.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The alcohol-free drinks market is booming as increasing numbers choose to give up alcohol

The clubs and the festival want to cater for the increasing number of Britons choosing to give up drink.
A report by the Office for National Statistics in May found that just under 60% of those surveyed had had an alcoholic drink in the past week - the lowest rate since the survey began in 2005.
Another survey from 2015 found that one in four British people were thinking of cutting down their drinking or at least trying to reduce it.
Still, many who have made the change complain that there are few options in traditional pubs other than sugary soft drinks.
Prof Luc Bovens, an expert in public health at London School of Economics, has made a number of recommendations to British pubs aimed at "nudging" people away from alcohol.
"The road to hangovers is often paved with good intentions, but by tinkering with the British pub's choice architecture we may be able to help some people," he wrote.
He suggested that pubs provide a no-alcohol or low-alcohol beer on tap and added: "For many people, there is a distinct feeling of alienation in toasting proper pints with a sad little bottle."
'Absolute weirdo'

A spokesman for the British Beer & Pub Association said: "No-alcohol beers are bottled because the sales volume typically wouldn't support a keg option.
"Our members have a good track record.
Within the beer category, we've seen brewers remove 1.3 billion units from the market by the drinks industry as part of the Public Health Responsibility Deal, through producing low strength, or no strength options and reducing the strength of existing products."
Jennifer said one of the biggest challenges comes from friends: "It's actually seen as bad or weird not drinking.
It's like you're a minority, people look at you like you're an absolute weirdo."
But after 90 days of not drinking, her relationship with her partner is back on track and her life has improved: "Getting up on a Monday is not a problem.
I can bounce out of bed."
Meanwhile for Amie, who has been alcohol-free for 16 months, the benefits have been vast: "I lost four stone.
I train six days a week.
And everything I want to do, I can go and do."
Image copyright Dr Atul Budukh/TMC Hospital Image caption For the study, health workers collected cloth pads used during menstruation, from villagers

Menstruation is considered a taboo to even speak about in India, so imagine the reaction to the idea of collecting women's used menstrual pads.
But that is exactly what health workers did in villages in the West Indian state of Maharashtra - in order to diagnose the possibility of cervical cancer.
More than a quarter of the world's cervical cancer patients are from India.
Yet there are many reasons why women don't go for cervical screening - a lack of adequate infrastructure and facilities in rural areas as well as burdening costs, coupled with unease at undergoing the invasive examination.
"Rural women are shy, fear the test and consider it unnecessary," said researchers writing in the European Journal of Cancer Prevention.
More than 90% of Indian rural women use homemade cloth as a menstrual pad, as opposed to commercial sanitary products.
Researchers from the Tata Memorial Centre and National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health in India found that by analysing these used menstrual pads, they could detect the presence of human papilloma virus (HPV), which can cause cervical cancer.
"It is an easy and convenient way," Dr Atul Budukh, lead researcher from the centre, told the BBC.
"The major roadblock to large scale implementation of the cervical cancer screening programme is the low participation by the women at risk."
As a result, doctors say that most cervical cancer patients are only diagnosed at an advanced metastatic stage or when attending hospital for any other medical check-up.
Deep freeze DNA

For the research, more than 500 women aged between 30 and 50 with no history of any cancer, who were physically and mentally fit and menstruating regularly, provided their pads for analysis during the two-year research period.
These women were asked to store the menstrual cloth on the first day of their periods in a simple ziplock bag and hand it to the local health worker.
The collected menstrual cloth was then stored at -20C and sent to the diagnostic centre in a dry ice container for HPV screening.
Image copyright Dr Atul Budukh/TMC hospital Image caption Indian scientists process samples of the pads in the lab

Genomic DNA was then extracted from dried menstrual blood, amplified and studied using polymerase chain reaction - a technique used in molecular biology.
Twenty-four women tested positive for HPV and were identified for further treatment, said Dr Bhuduk.
This included a colposcopy - a simple procedure used to look at the cervix, the lower part of the womb at the top of the vagina.
The procedure can confirm whether cells in the cervix are abnormal and require treatment.
The researchers also documented the women's socio-demographic and reproductive history, their bathroom and toilet facilities and the type of menstrual device used.
Genital hygiene

The study found an urgent need for intensive health education on genital hygiene.
According to the Census of India 2011, more than 41% of the households do not have bathrooms and of those that do, 16% of the rooms did not have a roof.
Dr Budukh said: "Because of the poor conditions of the bathroom or lack of proper toilet facilities, women in rural areas do not have the privacy to wash their genitals."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Very few women in rural India use commercial sanitary products

Poor genital hygiene has been found to be an important factor for the development of dysplasia and cervical cancer, and the use of pads made from reused cloth increases that risk, studies have shown.
Collecting the menstrual cloth was a real challenge, the researchers said, partly because of the myths and superstitions surrounding menstruation among the rural population in India.
For example, menstruating women are generally barred from entering the kitchen, visiting temples and attending religious gatherings.
Myths and superstition

This made it difficult for health workers to collect the pads, especially in the evenings, because it is seen as a bad omen for menstruating women to come out after sunset.
Intensive health education programmes on cervical cancer and how to prevent it were organised for village leaders, social workers and family members of the participants.
They were also informed of the myths surrounding menstruation.
There were some limitations to the study - the transporting of the samples was costly and researchers pointed out that development of a simple mechanism of sending the pads for testing by mail would be more efficient than freezer storage.
Only menstruating women can benefit from this screening method, they also noted.
Dr Budukh and his team say that with an improved system for collecting and despatching menstrual pads for testing and good health education, this could become an effective cervical cancer screening tool.
If you're diabetic, checking your blood sugar level is part of the fabric of life.
But one designer with the condition went a step further and wove her blood results into the fabric she designs.
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Poppy Nash was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes aged six which meant her body was no longer able to produce insulin.
"It was horrible and scary," she says, as she recalled the day her GP sent her straight to A&E.
"I remember Mum crying in the hospital.
That's when I realised there was something wrong."
Nash was diagnosed and discharged with a new life-changing routine which revolved around injections and measuring blood-sugar levels multiple times a day, a demanding cycle kept up by her mum for many years until she was old enough to take responsibility for her own health.
When she was hospitalised at 18, after she accidentally injected herself with double the amount of insulin she needed, the true gravitas of the condition hit her.
"That was my wake-up call," she says.
"It was like a second diagnosis and I suddenly realised 'I'm in charge of this stuff that essentially can kill me'."
It gave Nash a new outlook when she left home for Glasgow School of Art to study Communication Design where she "pushed" her way into the textiles department to learn how to screen print.
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Asked to create a body of work on a subject she cared about, Nash says she hit a wall as the "voice" of diabetes became "too loud" and drowned out her creativity.
"I got so stressed out and my diabetes control went badly," she says.
"Diabetes was the thing that made me stop doing my project work so I turned the situation on its head, then it made sense."
Nash went back to her blood sugar monitor and the ream of data it automatically stores which reveals how her body reacts to life - the good and bad.
She took the numbers, sometimes elaborated on them or added colour, then printed them onto fabric, before she turned that fabric into wearable artwork and felt she was literally weaving her blood into clothes.
"When you do research for a project you have to really believe in what you're doing and this [diabetes] is the only subject that I really cared about," she says.
"It makes me weirdly happy because I feel I'm cheating something, but they're also real numbers and that's why it's so scary."
Image copyright Melanie Hyams

Although Nash loves to focus on her work, she says it can bring on negative thoughts if she dwells on the reality of the figures and the impact the condition can have on her life.
"I was looking at these articles of people dying in their sleep from diabetes and I thought 'actually I can't do this'.
When that happens Nash says she has to put her work to one side for the day.
She says "it's scary" but believes the project is ultimately good for her because it makes her confront the reality of what can happen if she doesn't look after herself.
When she's being creative in the studio Nash tries to look at her blood sugar levels artistically rather than medically.
The repetitive nature of writing out the numbers can be a "good therapy", she says, but she has to be careful not to get overwhelmed and focus only on the "bad numbers".
According to Diabetes UK, healthy blood sugar levels vary between each person but tend to be between four and nine, depending on when they have eaten - some of Nash's readings, which she has printed on her fabric, reach as high as 18.
Image copyright Poppy Nash

Nash's latest commission is to design the interior of a house for the National Disability Arts Collection and Archive but she has also started to experiment with text to make sense of the mass of information she is meant to know about the condition.
She has started to collect news articles which reveal the harsh realities of diabetes, and use them to create patchwork quilts.
"I'll write out a whole article and then cut it up.
I'll use fragments on some patchwork - one is about diabetes burnout - because it's so impersonal.
It's all about people not choosing a healthy lifestyle. "
Burnout can arise years after a diagnosis when, out of frustration, some people with diabetes get sick of the diet and testing regime and give up or lapse.
They may disregard their blood sugar level management or switch back to unhealthy eating habits.
Alongside her own artwork Nash works as a pattern drafter and cutter and recently made costumes for a band.
Image copyright NDACA

Her current focus is on textiles - fabrics, clothing and one-off pieces for exhibitions - but she hopes one day there might be a clothing collection.
"I would love people to wear them," she says, "They'd be telling the story of diabetes and they wouldn't even know."
Nash has had to overcome a lack of confidence in the worth of her artwork and whether it's relevant to non-diabetics.
"I think about diabetes all the time," she says.
"I worry that if I think I talk about it all the time I feel self-indulgent.
But it's not only diabetics who like it and it opens up conversations."
Even with the best management, hypos - when blood sugar gets too low - can occur regularly and Nash estimates she has two a week.
"It's like tripping out," she says.
"You have no idea what's going on.
My boyfriend has been talking to me and I just didn't understand what he was saying.
I could repeat the words, but I didn't understand them.
Image copyright Poppy Nash

"If there was a rulebook on how hypos can be caused it would be longer than Harry Potter," she says.
Nash will continue to monitor her blood sugar levels indefinitely but it will also continue to provide her with a well of creative possibilities.
"This is a nice platform, because I can turn something so rubbish into something that I like, it makes it kind of amusing.
"Diabetes as a subject can go on and on, so long as people want to listen."
If you have been affected by anything in this article you can visit Diabetes UK for further information about the condition.
For more Disability News, follow BBC Ouch on Twitter and Facebook, and subscribe to the weekly podcast.
An EMT who became the first emergency responder in New York City to contract HIV while treating a patient is being honored on Monday, 20 years after her death.
Tracy Allen Lee, who was working as an FDNY emergency medical technician and was 17 months into the job when she contracted the virus, is being honored with a memorial stone marker outside an East Harlem EMS station, the New York Daily News reported.
In Nov. 1989, Lee responded to a call involving an AIDS patient who was bleeding to death and ripped her glove while pulling the man into the hallway for treatment.
She later realized the nail that cut her glove had cut her hand, and that the patients blood had mixed with her own, the news outlet reported.
FORMER 'WORLD'S HEAVIEST WOMAN' DIES AFTER WEIGHT-LOSS SURGERY

She filed a report but tested positive for the virus in May 1994.
I was 31 when she died, Victor Lee, the 34-year-olds widow, told the New York Daily News.
When youre that age, you think youre invincible.
We were going to grow old together and have kids.
Though her request to have her diagnosis designated as a line-of-duty illness was denied, Lee continued office work with the FDNY.
She died in Sept. 1997 after falling into a coma.
In 1998, New York passed a law requiring all rescue works infected with HIV on the job to automatically get line-of-duty injury designation, the news outlet reported.
I still think about her every day, Adelaide Connaughton, a retired EMS Lt. who worked closely with Lee, told the New York Daily News.
I cant believe its been 20 years.
It seems like yesterday.
An Egyptian woman who once held the title of worlds heaviest woman died in a hospital in the United Arab Emirates, her doctors said.
Eman Abdul Atti, who at one point reportedly weighed over 1,100 pounds, was 37.
Burjeel Hospital, which had a team of 20 doctors caring for Atti, said the woman died at 4:35 a.m. on Monday due to complications from her weight, including heart disease and kidney dysfunction.
They blamed her weight issues on a thyroid condition.
WOMAN'S 'BABY BUMP' ACTUALLY A MASSIVE OVARIAN CYST

Atti arrived at Burjeel Hospital from India in May, after she was airlifted from her home with the aid of a crane to undergo a weight loss procedure.
She had not walked in 25 years but had reportedly lost more than 660 pounds after undergoing the bariatric procedure in March.
At the time, hospital officials told BBC News that Atti was dealing with cardiac issues, a bacterial infection and bed sores.
Her former doctor at Saifee Hospital had clashed with the womans family during her hospitalization.
Her sister accused the hospital of exaggerating her weight loss, and said she was suffering seizures and not stable enough to transfer hospitals.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
next

prev

A woman who looked pregnant after piling on weight while on a diet went to the doctors - who discovered a foot-wide ovarian cyst.
Sarah Upton, 29, could not understand why she was gaining weight and cut out milk and bread amid fears she had an intolerance.
But after noticing a 'baby bump' during a gym session she went to see her doctor and was admitted to hospital.
The cyst then burst and she underwent a three-hour operation to remove the 27-cm-wide growth - weighing a stone and a half.
BABY WHOSE MOTHER CHOSE TO GIVE BIRTH OVER CHEMOTHERAPY DIES

Upton, an estate agency manager from Derby, now has a scar from her belly button to her bladder.
"Every Thursday I go to a gym class and lift weights," Upton said.
"During the class, you are surrounded by mirrors and I thought I looked pregnant but hoped nobody noticed it.
My stomach had swelled up to such an unusual size."
"Afterwards I spoke to the instructor and he said 'I have to ask you something.
Either you are going to be offended or it is true - Are you pregnant?'"
she said.
"That was when I decided to go to the doctor and learned I had a cyst on my ovary that was 27-cm wide," Upton said.
"I thought I had put on a bit of weight with age but began to worry when it kept growing.
I had to start wearing baggy clothes because I couldn't fit into my outfits."
Upton was admitted to hospital in August and put on a drip after the cyst ruptured.
It marked the end of the gruelling five-month period which included being unable to digest food in the days before her operation.
WOMAN GIVES BIRTH TO 'MIRACLE' BABY AFTER LEARNING SHE HAS CANCER

Upton and partner Daisy Pridden, 21, became increasingly confused by her stomach's growth despite the amount of exercise she was doing.
After her gym instructor asked if she was pregnant, Upton was even asked to do a pregnancy test by doctors.
Upton usually went to the gym three times a week and had a healthy appetite - but she became embarrassed, stopped training and started to throw up after every meal.
"They wanted to monitor me closely and by this time I was experiencing a lot of pain in my left side and was being sick after every meal," she said.
"I had a really healthy appetite before hand I'd always be hungry and I loved food.
I ate really well and ate large meals in the evening.
"I knew whatever I had was really affecting my appetite.
Before I'd found out I had the cyst I began to lose my appetite," Upton said.
"When I thought I had IBS my appetite wasn't as good - I wasn't feeling hungry but was eating anyway and was never able to finish meals."
"In the five days leading up to surgery I wasn't able to eat anything without being sick," she said.
"My stomach felt really tight because it was so big and there was so much pressure.
"After it was removed, doctors told me they couldn't weigh it because it had ruptured and this was contributing to the pain," she said.
"Doctors said I would struggle to have children without the left ovary but I won't be having children anyway.
I'm very relieved the ordeal is over."
Several youth football drills expose young athletes to head impacts more frequently and more roughly than others, according to a U.S. study that followed 10- and 11-year-old players for a full season.
Modifying and eliminating certain high-intensity drills could reduce head hits, concussions and injuries at both the youth and professional levels of football, the study authors write in the Journal of Neurosurgery: Pediatrics.
"The majority of the head impacts an athlete receives are from practice," said senior author Jillian Urban of the Wake Forest School of Medicine in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYER DIES AFTER INJURY DURING 'ROUTINE' TACKLE

"However, our understanding of head impact exposure within on-field activities, such as practice drills, is limited," she told Reuters Health by email.
"This research .
can help inform coaches, organizations and leagues about methods to restructure practice."
Head impacts can lead to concussions and symptoms such as headache, dizziness, nausea and amnesia.
Past studies have also suggested that even sub-concussive impacts may contribute to changes in cognitive skills and physical brain changes seen among youth, high school and college-level players, the authors note.
To understand how often and how hard youth players experience head impacts in practice, Urban and colleagues recruited a team belonging to the American Youth Football league to participate in the study.
Players wore sensors on their helmets to measure impacts and acceleration, and researchers videotaped all practices during the preseason, regular season and playoffs.
The study team identified 11 types of drills the players used in practice, including dummy/sled tackling, one-on-one, open-field tackling, passing, position skill work, multiplayer tackle and scrimmage.
They recorded 2,125 impacts among nine athletes during 30 practices.
The number of head impacts each player experienced during the season ranged from a low of 83 to a high of 459, with a median of 231.
Open-field tackling, a one-on-one tackling drill with starting positions more than three yards apart, had the highest average head acceleration and produced the hardest hits.
The multi-player tackle drill, a blocking drill that involves several athletes, had the highest number of hits but among the lowest-magnitude impacts.
9-YEAR-OLD DIES OF HEAD TRAUMA AT SOCCER PRACTICE

A tackling drill known as Oklahoma, involving two-on-two or three-on-three maneuvers, had the second highest number of impacts.
Only the dummy/sled tackling drill had no head impacts.
Overall, researchers found, head impact was most common at the front of the head.
During the practices, a certified athletic trainer monitored the players for concussions, and none of the impacts resulted in a diagnosed concussion.
Only two muscle strain injuries were recorded during the practices.
"We need to ask ourselves - is it more important to reduce the high number of severity impacts associated with a drill, or is it more important to target reducing higher severity impact?
The answer may be both," Steven Rowson of Virginia Tech and State University in Blacksburg, Virginia, who wasn't involved with the study, said by email.
In 2012, Heads Up Football, a USA Football safety program, and Pop Warner Little Scholars, one of the largest youth football programs in the U.S., eliminated full-speed head-on blocking or tackling drills with players more than three yards apart.
They also restricted contact at practice to either 40 minutes or one-third of the total weekly practice time.
The Pop Warner changes still allow full-speed drills where athletes approach each other at an angle, rather than straight on, which is similar to the open-field tackling drill in this study.
"Much of the debate surrounding head impact in sports lacks solid data to inform the discussion," Dr. Jason Druzgal of the University of Virginia School of Medicine in Charlottesville said by email.
"Having a way to objectively measure head impact allows decisions about regulating practices to be made on real data, rather than on speculation and fear."
Some drills that cause more head impact than others, such as one-on-one tackles, may be obvious, even to casual observers, said Druzgal, who wasn't involved in the study.
Helmets used in studies like these accurately measure head impact, but the technology can't yet be used as a "concussion detector," he said.
Nearly 450 people in San Diego have become infected with hepatitis A over the last 10 months, making it the largest outbreak of the illness in California in decades.
On Tuesday (Sept. 19), officials in San Diego said the number of hepatitis cases in the city had climbed to 444, up from 421 last week.
Of those infected, 305 have been hospitalized, and 16 have died.
(For comparison, the city had just 22 cases of hepatitis A in 2015.)
HEPATITIS A OUTBREAK DECLARED IN LA COUNTY AS SAN DIEGO WASHES DOWN STREETS

Also this week, Los Angeles declared its own hepatitis outbreak, with 10 cases reported so far.
And Santa Cruz County, in northern California, has reported 69 cases of the virus since April.
The outbreaks in all three areas are occurring primarily among people who are homeless or who use illegal drugs.
But what's causing hepatitis to spread in these areas?
In general, people become infected with hepatitis A through the "fecal-oral" route  that is, when small amounts of stool from an ill person contaminate objects, food or drinks that are then touched and ingested by another person, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
San Diego officials say the outbreak there is being spread from person to person "through contact with a fecally contaminated environment."
This type of contamination can occur when people with the illness don't properly wash their hands after going to the bathroom, according to the CDC.
More than 50 percent of hepatitis cases in San Diego are in homeless people, who are known to be at increased risk for hepatitis A, in part because homelessness presents challenges to keeping good hygiene, such as limited access to toilets and hand-washing facilities, according to a 2009 paper published in the journal Public Health Reports.
Clusters of hepatitis A cases have also occurred in some facilities with shared restrooms, including jails and residential drug treatment facilities, San Diego officials said.
The infection can also spread through the sharing of equipment related to illicit drug use, according to the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health.
On Sept. 1, San Diego declared a local public health emergency because of the hepatitis outbreak.
The city has taken several steps to combat the outbreak, including vaccinating about 19,000 people against hepatitis A to prevent future illnesses, the San Diego Union-Tribune reported .
Officials have also installed 40 hand-washing stations throughout the downtown area and have disinfected some city streets with bleach.
The strain of hepatitis involved in the San Diego outbreak is the same as the one in the Santa Cruz outbreak, which suggests the outbreaks are related, according to the County of San Diego's Public Health Services Division.
(The strain involved in the LA outbreak has not been reported, but five of the LA cases involved people who visited either San Diego or Santa Cruz before their infection began, officials said.)
WHAT IS HEPATITIS?
The hepatitis A virus can infect the liver and cause inflammation and damage to the organ, according to the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Symptoms can include dark-yellow urine, fever, joint pain, nausea and vomiting.
People with the infection usually get better on their own without treatment, the NIH says.
But in some cases, the infection can lead to liver failure , particularly in older adults or people who have other liver diseases.
In general, the hepatitis A vaccine is recommended for children at age 1; travelers to countries that have high rates of hepatitis A; users of illegal drugs; people with chronic liver diseases, such as hepatitis C ; men who have sexual contact with other men; and people who work with animals infected with hepatitis A, according to the CDC.
Because of the outbreak in San Diego, officials there are also recommending that people get the vaccine if they are homeless, have close contact with the homeless or illicit drug users, or work in jobs where they handle food.
It's also recommended that any person who wants to obtain immunity against hepatitis A get the vaccine, San Diego officials said.
Original article on Live Science .
No one wants to think about their furry friend lapping up paint thinner or laundry detergent.
But accidental pet poisonings happenand theyre more common than you might think.
Last year, the ASPCAs Animal Poison Control Center received more than 180,000 calls from pet owners whose dogs or cats ingested something toxic.
And thats just one national hotlinethat doesnt factor in the countless pet poisoning cases handled by local veterinarians.
NYC MAN DIES OF LEGIONNAIRES' DISEASE, 1 OTHER SICKENED

Thats why its important to be prepared.
Heres what you should do if your dog or cat gets into something she shouldnt.
Plus, the one thing you should never do if you suspect that your pet has consumed a poisonous substance.
Common toxins to watch for

Chances are, theres more dangerous stuff lurking in your home than you might think.
According to the ASPCA, these are the potentially poisonous items that pets most often get into.
If you have them around, be sure to keep them in a place that your furry friend cant get to.
Human medications including prescription, OTC, and natural herbs and supplements.
Human food including chocolate, coffee, onions, garlic, grapes, raisins, and xylitol.
(Here are 8 table scraps you should never feed your dog.)
Insecticides and rodenticides.
Household items including cleaning products, paint, and lawn and garden products.
Veterinary medications.
They can be dangerous if your pet consumes more than she needs.
Houseplants including aloe, chamomile, and many types of ivy.
(For a full list, click here, and read our article on 9 common houseplants that are toxic to pets.)
Symptoms to watch forand what you should do

Signs of toxicity can vary depending on what your pet has ingested.
But they could include things like vomiting or diarrhea, shaking, lack of coordination, coughing, sneezing, trouble breathing, or seizures.
Watch for unusual behavior, too.
Lack of appetite, drinking more than usual, sluggishness, and even extreme excitability all suggest that something could be up.
In some cases, a potentially poisoned pet might not seem sick at all.
Some reactions can take longer to occur than others, and a bigger pet might not have consumed enough of a substance to actually get sick from it, says Rachel Barrack, DVM, integrative veterinarian and owner of Animal Acupuncture.
(After all, weve all heard about a miracle dog that scarfed down a chocolate bar and was perfectly fine.)
So keep your eyes peeled for other signs for something gone awry.
If you come across a container thats open or spilled, or find an empty wrapper or torn-open packaging, think about whether your pet could have gotten into the item.
If theres even a chance that the answer could be yes, you should assume that she could be at risk for being poisoned.
When that happens, heres what you should do:

Put your pet in a safe space.
Get him away from the toxin so he cant ingest any more of it.
(You can deal with cleanup later.)
If you have any other animals, secure them in a separate space so they cant come in contact with the poisonous substance or with your pet.
Call the vet ASAP.
Even if your pet is acting perfectly normal.
Its always better to err on the side of caution, Barrack says.
If its after-hours and your vet isnt open, call the nearest 24-hour veterinary hospital or the ASPCAs 24-hour emergency hotline at 1-888-426-4435.
Never try to induce vomiting without your vets OK. You could end up making things worse instead of better.
Some ingested products are caustic, and can cause severe esophageal irritation if vomited back up, Barrack says.
Try to keep your pet from grooming himself.
Especially if you think the substance mightve gotten on his fur or paws.
You may need to bathe your pet to wash the contaminant off, but check with your vet first.
Washing could cause some chemicals (like those used in flea collars) to be reabsorbed into your pets skin, says the nonprofit organization International Cat Care.
'DEATH WISH' COLD BREW COFFEE RECALLED OVER BOTULISM CONCERNS

The best treatment option will depend on what your pet ingested.
Your vet might recommend bringing your pet in to give him IV fluids, induce vomiting, or administer activated charcoal (which can help absorb the toxin), says Barrack.
Shell also determine whether your pet needs further treatment.
For instance, dogs whove eaten chocolate might need a temporary catheter to prevent toxins from being reabsorbed into the bladder.
What to do if your pet ate other non-food stuff

If your pet eats any object other than his food, call your vet.
Old socks, dirty tennis balls, or even parts of dog or cat toys might not be poisonous, but that doesnt make them safe.
Soft items like socks or underwear can cause intestinal blockages.
Sharp objects like sticks or bone fragments can do the same, and pose the added risk of puncturing your pets intestines, Barrack says.
In both cases, your pet might need surgery to remove the objects.
This article first appeared on Rodale's Organic Life.
Youve found out the big news that youre expecting, and youre looking forward to watching your baby grow big and strong.
On the other hand, you might not be looking forward to another common part of pregnancymorning sicknessespecially if it gets severe.
But what if the extreme nausea and vomiting youre experiencing is a little more than the usual?
Depending on the severity of your symptoms, you could actually be facing hyperemesis gravidarum (HG) instead.
Dr. Marlena Fejzo, an associate faculty researcher at UCLA and USC, told NBC News that an estimated 100,000 cases of hyperemesis occur each year.
The true total might be well above that number, though, because some women go undiagnosed or use home treatment methods.
CYCLIC VOMITING SYNDROME: IT'S AS TERRIBLE AS IT SOUNDS

While you might be tempted to dismiss this problem as a severe form of morning sickness, more health experts are recognizing it as a separate issue.
Patients with hyperemesis gravidarum often end up in the hospital, needing medical help to get adequate food and hydration.
Such was the case during Kate Middletons first pregnancy, and she has suffered through HG in her second and now third pregnancies as well.
While you certainly wouldnt wish hyperemesis on anyone, Middletons struggle with it is putting the condition in the spotlight.
What Is Hyperemesis Gravidarum?
The problem that many doctors have in diagnosing HG is that it doesnt have a strict medical definition.
Some doctors will view the sickness as hyperemesis if a woman loses more than 5 percent of her body weight.
Others may not use this marker but may still diagnose it if the patient is lacking vital hydration and nutrients.
How can you tell if youre suffering from HG

The symptoms include regular nausea and vomiting, dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, significant weight loss and the inability to keep food down.
You may also experience headaches, severe food aversions, anxiety or depression.
In addition, your condition will likely keep you from normal, everyday activities and will not subside in certain stages of pregnancy.
NEW REPORT SHOWS THAT LIFESTYLE CHANGES LOWER CANCER RISK

While many of these symptoms are similar to those of morning sickness, its important to distinguish between the two.
Hyperemesis can be dangerous if not dealt with properly, and many patients need hospitalization in order to maintain proper nutrition.
In fact, hyperemesis causes over 150,000 emergency room visits every year.
Thankfully, if youre suffering with HG, close monitoring and supportive medical care can keep both you and your baby safe.
Treatment

While some groups, such as the Hyperemesis Education and Research Foundation (HER), are promoting and supporting new research for this condition, experts still do not know its exact cause.
Interestingly, one study published in BMJ in 2010 did find a correlation between family history and hyperemesis.
Of the more than 1,200 patients in this study, 28 percent had mothers who had also dealt with the condition.
Also, 19 percent had sisters who had experienced hyperemesis.
This research suggests that genetics may play a role here, but the direct cause is still unknown.
Instead, youll need to focus on treating the symptoms and staying healthy for a safe delivery.
For mild forms of hyperemesis, you may only need to concentrate on rest and nutrition at home.
You might have to avoid foods or smells that trigger nausea or vomiting and eat small meals.
Your doctor may recommend some bed rest as well.
Since mild HG can easily escalate into malnutrition and dehydration, you should talk through any changes or concerns with your doctor regularly.
DOCTOR GOES INTO LABOR WHILE DELIVERING PATIENT'S BABY

In many cases, however, you will need treatment under close medical supervision.
Once in the hospital, you may receive an IV and possibly a feeding tube to ensure adequate nutrition.
Your doctor may also prescribe anti-reflux or nausea medications.
No matter your specific situation, you should find strong support while dealing with HG.
Not only will you need caring doctors who will take your condition seriously, but you will also need encouragement from loved ones or a support group.
The bed rest and embarrassing symptoms might keep you isolated and worried, making proactive support a necessity here.
While some people might dismiss the severity of hyperemesis gravidarum, this condition is serious.
Let your doctor know right away if youre experiencing severe nausea or vomiting, especially if you are unable to keep food or water down.
While you may not find a cure for your discouraging symptoms, you can get support from others who have dealt with the same problem.
The important thing with HG is keeping yourself and your baby healthy for a safe delivery.
This article first appeared on AskDrManny.com.
A teenager has been cruelly dubbed "snake lady" because of an ultra-rare condition which has left her covered in scales.
Floraine Nalugon, 17, constantly smears her body with lotion to stop it from hardening and seizing up.
She said her bedding is covered in "scales" every morning when she wakes up and she rarely ventures into the crowded places in a bid to avoid unwanted stares.
The teen suffers with ichthyosis - a condition where a faulty gene affects the rate at which the skin regenerates causing a build-up of rough, scaly skin.
Nalugon, from Bukindnon, Philippines, hopes to be treated by experts in Spain who are looking into her case.
"When I was seven-years-old, my parents moved," she said.
"Initially, I thought I could escape kids back home, who ridiculed me for my condition.
My parents told me that I was conceived out of fish, that's why my skin looks like fish scales to some while to others it looks like snake skin. "
"It hurts me lot hearing other people making fun of me," Nalugon said.
"My parents gave me the strength though.
They showered me with love despite my physical deformities."
India-based press agency Newslions is currently helping Shalini Yadav, 16, from Madhya Pradesh get treatment for a similar condition in Malaga.
They have taken details of Nalugon's case to the same doctors.
"I'm very excited to know that there is a treatment of the disease I suffer from," she said.
"I will be studying hard, get a good job and show to people that discriminate against me that there is a chance for me to be like them also.
"I am hopeful that I will also be treated like the Indian girl, who suffers from the same disease like mine, is being treated today," she said.
A woman and her husband completely changed career paths to study a deadly disease that killed her mother she learned she inherited.
Sonia Vallabh was studying at Harvard Law school in 2010 when her mother became ill. She had trouble seeing, lost her memory and spoke in tongues.
She was fitful and couldnt really tell you if shed been awake or asleep, Vallabh told CNN.
Her mother died in December of that year at 52.
Shortly after, Vallahb learned that her death was caused by an extremely rare genetic disease known as fatal familial insomnia (FFI.)
BABY WHOSE MOTHER CHOSE TO GIVE BIRTH OVER CHEMOTHERAPY DIES

FFI wasnt given a name until 1986 and only affects a few dozen families throughout the world.
Caused by a brain abnormality similar to mad cow disease, FFI patients suffer a months-long descent into a dementia-like state as the brain loses its ability to fall asleep.
Theres this one protein thats sort of at the heart of this disease, the prion protein, Vallabh said.
This is a protein that we all have.
Were all producing it all the time and its part of normal biology, but its capable of undergoing  a change in shape.
If a change in shape occurs, the prions begin to create abnormal prions which then begin to kill brain cells as they spread.
In FFI patients, the abnormal prions attack the thalamus, the center of our brain which controls consciousness, sight and sleep.
Most of the information on the disorder has been gathered from a family in Venice, Italy, whose line has have suffered from FFI for more than two centuries.
This article first appeared on NYPost.com.
More than 40,000 women will be killed by breast cancer this year in the U.S., according to the American Cancer Society (ACS).
Women face a one-in-37 chance of dying from the disease, which according to the ACS is the second-leading cause of cancer death in women behind lung cancer.
Read on to learn about symptoms of the disease.
What are some breast cancer signs to be aware of?
Many women are diagnosed during a routine mammogram without exhibiting any symptoms, according to Dr. Laura Spring, of Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, Mass.
However, some warning signs include a lump, persistent pain in one area that doesn't go away, and hardening or thickening around the breast and armpit, Spring explained.
Whats most important is for women to know whats normal for them and to be aware of changes in the breast, she said.
Stanford University Medical Center professor Dr. Douglas Blayney said patients may experience bone pain and have weakened bones and fractures if the cancer has already spread.
What else should I know?
Skin dimpling -- when it starts looking like a peeled orange -- is unusual, Dr. Parvin Peddi, an oncologist at UCLA Health, told Fox News.
It can be a sign of a cancer underneath that is pulling the skin in, she said.
Very uncommonly do women have nipple discharge or blood coming from their nipples, said Dr. Adam Brufsky, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.
However, he added that bloody nipples do not necessarily indicate cancer.
Dr. Margaret Chen, a breast surgeon at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia University Medical Center, said that asymmetry and pain are less common symptoms of cancer.
She stressed the importance of routine mammograms, given that there are often no warning signs.
Skin redness and feeling warmth in the breast are both rare breast cancer symptoms, according to Spring.
She advised women with any questions or concerns to see a doctor.
The two data sets used different measurements of cognitive abilities like memory, orientation and planning, and the consistency of their findings suggests that the association between vision impairment and compromised brain function is real, the researchers concluded.
The lead author, Dr. Suzann Pershing, ophthalmologist at Stanford University School of Medicine, said that while this association doesnt prove vision loss causes cognitive decline, intuitively it makes sense that the less engaged people are with the world, the less cognitive stimulation they receive, and the more likely their cognitive function will decline.
An earlier study of 625 elderly people at the University of Michigan by Dr. Mary A.M. Rogers and Kenneth M. Langa found that those with poor vision had a 63 percent greater risk of developing dementia over a period of eight and a half years.
Those with poor vision who did not visit an ophthalmologist were five times more likely to experience cognitive decline and nine and a half times more likely to develop Alzheimers disease.
This is not necessarily a one-way relationship, Dr. Pershing said.
If you improve the vision of people with cognitive impairment, they can function better.
Likewise with hearing, where there is stronger evidence that hearing loss can speed cognitive decline.
However, it is not yet known whether wearing properly adjusted hearing aids can decrease the risk of dementia or slow its onset.
A study sponsored by the National Institute on Aging should show in five years whether using hearing aids can help preserve brain function in people with hearing loss as they age.
Dr. Frank R. Lin, otolaryngologist at the Johns Hopkins Center on Aging and Health, said the potential impact is huge, especially now.
Companies like Apple and Samsung are expected to soon market hearing aids that cost perhaps $50 to $300 instead of $5,000 a pair, making this assist accessible to many more people.
(Already, Dr. Lin said, Costco has made a huge dent in affordability, lowering the cost of hearing aids fitted and serviced by well-trained audiologists.)
Meanwhile, heres what we already know.
A prospective study of 1,984 older adults directed by Dr. Lin found that those who initially had hearing loss were 24 percent more likely than their age-mates with normal hearing to experience cognitive decline within six years.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Their cognitive abilities declined up to 40 percent faster than others with normal hearing.
They had greater problems with brain functions like thinking and memory, developing them on average three years earlier than people their age with normal hearing.
And the more severe their hearing loss at the start of the study, the greater their cognitive loss over time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Older adults with hearing loss face an increased risk of dementia even when you control for diseases like diabetes and high blood pressure, Dr. Lin said in an interview.
So we think theyre causally related.
He suggested three ways that may explain how poor hearing and dementia are linked.
One involves cognitive load  when you cant hear well, the brain receives garbled signals, forcing it to work harder to derive meaning from the message.
Another mechanism may be that people who cant hear well tend to become socially isolated, which results in diminished cognitive stimulation and cognitive loss.
Perhaps most important is a third possible explanation involving brain structure; hearing loss results in a faster rate of brain atrophy mostly over the hearing portion of the brain, which is also involved in functions like memory, learning and thinking.
At Washington University in St. Louis, Jonathan Peelle and colleagues have shown through functional M.R.I.
studies that even people with mild hearing loss recruit more of their frontal cortex, which means that the part of the brain needed for thinking and decision-making is overworked when trying to understand speech.
Even in young adults with clinically normal hearing, Dr. Peelle said, just a small decline in how well they hear engages more of their frontal cortex.
When hearing loss is advanced, studies have shown that the auditory cortex shrinks, which may diminish the brains ability to perform tasks other than hearing, he said.
While the cost-effectiveness of regular screening programs for vision and hearing in older adults has yet to be demonstrated, experts strongly recommend periodic exams to pick up correctable problems that may diminish the risk of dementia and would certainly improve quality of life.
The American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends a comprehensive eye exam every two to four years for people aged 40 to 54 with no symptoms or risk factors for vision loss, increasing to every one to three years for those aged 55 to 64, and every year or two thereafter.
The exams can help to preserve vision by detecting correctable or treatable problems like glaucoma, cataracts and age-related macular degeneration.
The American Speech-Language-Hearing Association recommends a hearing test at least every decade through age 50 and every three years thereafter.
As Dr. Lin explained, hearing loss can occur so gradually that people dont recognize the problem until it is well advanced.
Also, there is no harm done in getting tested.
The science itself  like most attempts to link brain biology to behavior  is murkier.
In recent decades, researchers have made extraordinary strides in understanding the workings of brain cells, neural circuits and anatomy.
Photo

Yet drawing a direct line from those basic findings to what people do out in the world is dicey, given the ineffable interplay among circumstance, relationships and personality.
What scientists  from such diverse fields as psychiatry, neurology and substance use  can say is that the arrows seem to be pointing in the same direction.
A number of brain states raise the risk of acting out violently, and the evidence so far, while incomplete, suggests that C.T.E.
may be one of them.
Dr. Samuel Gandy, director of the N.F.L.
neurology program at Mount Sinai Medical Center, said his research showed that rage and irritability are far and away the most prominent symptoms among former players with likely C.T.E.
His group has identified 10 of 24 former players who probably have the disease.
Scientists at Boston University, who reported the findings on Mr. Hernandez, have described similar behavior in many of the more than 100 players they have evaluated.
The caveat for both research efforts is that these samples are selective: Almost all of the players had signs of possible C.T.E.
before being studied, which led the players and their families to participate and to donate their brains for research.
It may still be that most of the athletes in violent sports who develop the signature brain pathology, especially at modest levels, are no more irritable than anyone else.
But an important hint to the contrary comes from a more mature corner of brain science: dementia research.
People with advanced dementia often begin to act in uncharacteristically aggressive ways, as many caregivers can attest.
In a recent study of dementia patients, Swedish researchers found that 97 of 281 dementia patients had a history of aggression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Those who acted out earliest in the progression of their disease had so-called frontotemporal degeneration  that is, damage concentrated in the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain.
This is where C.T.E.
shows up, too.
In frontotemporal degeneration, a purported association has been made with criminal behavior, said Kevin Bieniek, a research fellow in the Dickson Neuropathology Lab at the Mayo Clinic College of Medicine in Jacksonville, Fla.
Different disease, but some clinical and pathological parallels to C.T.E.
All of this is far from definitive, given the wide variety of factors that affect motivation and impulsive behavior.
Substance abuse is a prominent example.
Mr. Hernandez was no stranger to illicit drugs, according to testimony at his murder trial.
Studies strongly suggest that people who are mentally unstable, particularly those with severe paranoia, are more likely to become violent when under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
Photo

The link between steroids  such as testosterone  and rage is another confounding factor.
It is rarely clear in mature athletes whether they have used performance-enhancing drugs, or how much.
Testosterone aggravates aggression in the absence of pathology, Dr. Gandy said.
If theres pathology, its likely to make things worse.
As cases like Mr. Hernandezs and others continue to move into the courts, judges will be making decisions based on limited, piecemeal scientific evidence.
These wont be easy decisions to make.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The only way to diagnose C.T.E.
is at autopsy.
A number of scientists, including Dr. Gandys group, are working to refine brain imaging tests intended to detect the signature pathology in living patients.
Those tests are not yet definitive.
Over the past decade, many courts have been reluctant to admit brain scans as exculpatory evidence.
Theres no serious argument about whether violence comes from the brain, said Owen Jones, director of the MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience at Vanderbilt University.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its just hard to make a credible claim that a particular brain injury has caused a particular act of violence.
Dr. Mary Anne Jackson, the director of infectious disease and professor of pediatrics at Childrens Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, and an author of the report, said that those sports physicals need to be done well, and done by the adolescents regular doctor.
The visit should be an opportunity to discuss the importance of good personal hygiene, including reminders about not sharing water bottles or sports equipment, about cleaning your footwear and changing your socks, and making sure your feet are clean and dry before you put on those socks.
For the patient and family, Dr. Davies said, the sports physical is a great opportunity to ask, what are some infectious risks and what can I do to manage that.
And for the practitioner, its an opportunity to do some anticipatory guidance, he said, telling the athlete, for example, if you see any lesion on your skin, notify your trainer.
On sports teams, infections can be transmitted in several ways.
The most common involve close contact, Dr. Davies said.
Skin infections can be transmitted directly, especially in wrestling, rugby and football.
They can also be transmitted via mats or floors, shared towels, or communal use of such equipment as callus cutters or soccer shin guards.
So its important to follow infection control practices.
That includes thorough hand-washing, that basic building block of hospital infection control, not sharing water bottles or equipment or towels, and properly and regularly cleaning mats and floors and surfaces.
Any team sport can bring kids into close enough contact for the spread of infectious diseases that travel by respiratory and airborne routes, so athletes must be up-to-date on all the recommended immunizations.
Athletes who travel may have contact with other athletes from other areas, and increasingly across the country, we know there are underimmunized pockets where you may more readily have transmission of highly infectious agents like measles, Dr. Jackson said.
Some kids will play against athletes from other countries, who may not all be immunized to the same standards recommended here.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The most infectious of these vaccine-preventable diseases include the ones that children should all be immunized against from early childhood, such as measles, chickenpox and whooping cough.
Everyone should also get the annual flu shot and the meningitis vaccine, which is recommended at 11 to 12 years of age, with a booster at 16.
All of these diseases can spread rapidly in a close team environment.
And then there are the sports that bring athletes into closer physical contact with one another, especially wrestling and rugby, but also football, basketball and others.
Wrestling and rugby are sufficiently well-known for skin-to-skin transfer that there are herpes virus skin infections actually named for them, Herpes gladiatorum and Herpes rugbiorum (also known as scrum pox).
Herpes can shut down a whole team, Dr. Rice said; wrestlers need regular skin checks before tournaments, looking for herpes, impetigo and ringworm, and treating problems so the athletes can compete.
Prophylactic medications can help prevent herpes recurrences.
Among bacterial skin infections, community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, has caused many infections among high school and college athletes.
MRSA has been a major issue in professional sports as well, particularly football, with several N.F.L.
teams having had to deal with outbreaks.
These skin infections can be extremely serious, as can streptococcal skin infections, so identifying and treating the lesions is really important for the individual athletes health, as well as for containing possible spread.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Athletes are also vulnerable to fungal skin infections, like Tinea corporis, or ringworm, not to mention athletes foot (Tinea pedis) and jock itch (Tinea cruris), two fungal infections whose popular names also reflect their tendency to hang around locker rooms.
The fungal pathogens can be transmitted directly, skin to skin, but also by towels and contaminated surfaces.
Infection control for athletes goes beyond attention to personal hygiene; the school and the athletic staff have to be scrupulous about cleaning equipment and the locker room and the weight room.
In wrestling and gymnastics, its about cleaning the mats; in football, about the tackling dummies; and in every sport, its about clean surfaces in the locker room, from floors to showers.
When outbreaks do occur, the close contact of team members means that they have to be addressed as quickly as possible.
Dr. Rice recalled an outbreak of scabies on a high school wrestling team.
A parent meeting was called immediately, he said, for that very evening, and we called all the pharmacies and made sure they had adequate medication on hand.
They didnt want any delay while each child saw his own doctor, he said, so I actually wrote prescriptions, I didnt want them to have to wait.
Finally, every team and every venue needs to understand universal precautions, that is, that blood and body fluids need to be treated as potentially infectious.
We start teaching from kindergarten, if its wet and not yours, dont touch it, Dr. Jackson said.
There are a lot of great, great things about athletic participation, Dr. Rice said, like exercise, socialization, teamwork and the challenges of competition.
Infection control is meant to keep athletes safe so they can enjoy these benefits.
Interviews with nursing home representatives, hospital personnel, residents families and government officials, as well as a review of emergency response records, show a preventable descent into the suffocating chaos of that early morning.
The nursing homes state-approved emergency plan was confounded by a foreseeable electrical failure.
The home said its repeated requests for help from state and county officials, and to the power company, yielded no results.
Rick Scott and other state and local officials say they never had any indication from Hollywood Hills that residents were in distress, though records show that a facility that shared the building reported that the conditions were adversely affecting patients.
In any event, the officials and the power company said, it was the nursing homes responsibility to ensure its residents safety.
The local medical examiners office is still investigating the cause and manner of the deaths.
As Irma threatened and then passed, nursing home workers reassured families that their loved ones would be safe.
But fans and portable coolers were not enough for some residents, with one so overcome by the heat that she lay nearly naked on a bed in the second-floor hallway.
When firefighters were finally summoned to rush people out, they said the conditions reminded them of battling a fire.
Somewhere in between, the misery of a nursing home teetering toward tragedy was reported to every official channel, but no attempt was made to transfer the residents to a safer place, or even to the air-conditioned hospital practically next door.
Id had the deepest fear all along of my mother being in a situation, a helpless situation, said Vendetta Craig, whose 87-year-old mother was evacuated from the home and survived.
This is the nightmare that has come to fruition.
Plans Set, Hotlines Ready

It was never supposed to come to that.
Before the hurricane bellowed ashore, Mr. Scott, the governor, held news conference after news conference imploring Floridians to flee while they still could.
To elder-care facilities after the storm, he was even more solicitous: He gave them what he said was his personal cellphone number to call for help.
There were also state and county emergency hotlines to turn to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was not in an area that Broward County had ordered evacuated.
Its emergency management plan called for moving residents to a nearby cluster of senior residences, the Marrinson Group, if the need arose.
As it happened, Marrinson residences ended up without power, too.
More than 164 assisted living facilities and 29 nursing homes did evacuate after the storm, according to the Florida health department.
Photo

Very few nursing homes had generators powerful enough to keep the air-conditioning running.
In 2006, Florida lawmakers considered requiring nursing homes to maintain generators to ensure comfortable temperatures during disasters.
But the industry raised concerns about the cost, according to The Miami Herald, and the bill died.
Last week, after the Hollywood Hills deaths, Mr. Scott announced new rules requiring those generators.
Among the nursing homes of South Florida, Hollywood Hills was not highly regarded.
The 152-bed residence had a below average rating from Medicare, with two out of five stars.
Its most recent health inspection, from March, described residents who were not bathed or groomed properly, food that went uncovered in a soiled kitchen, and flaws in the in-room patient call system.
Its owners, who acquired Hollywood Hills in 2015, were among defendants who paid $15.4 million in 2006 to settle federal and state civil claims that they had paid kickbacks to doctors in exchange for patient admissions.
But the home was right next to the hospital and offered round-the-clock nursing care, two important factors for families choosing a home.
Among those who died were Miguel Franco, 92, who visited his wife every day at the home until he joined her there; Gail Nova, 71, who worked as an X-ray technician until her own health failed; and Betty Hibbard, 84, who, after decades working in real estate, would die in the Memorial emergency room with a 107-degree fever, and with no family to mourn her.
Several family members said in interviews that until Irma, they had seen no major problems with their relatives care, praising the staff as dedicated and hardworking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Ms. Craig dropped by three days before the hurricane made landfall to visit her mother, Edna Jefferson, employees at the home told Ms. Craig that the home had a generator and plenty of extra food, diapers and other supplies.
(After the storm, Hollywood Hills said, it stationed eight spot coolers and more than 20 fans around the home.)
One worker told Ms. Craig, You dont have anything to worry about, were all set.
But the preparations were taking a toll.
Ms. Craig said she passed about 30 nursing assistants who had gathered to hear when they were expected to come in over the following days.
As the meeting broke up, Ms. Craig said, she overheard some of them grumbling about the schedule, saying: How can they do this to us?
and We have families, too.
A few minutes later, Ms. Craig heard the woman who had been conducting the meeting tell another nursing assistant, You have to come in.
If she refused, the woman said, she would make sure the assistant never worked in the field again.
Irmas winds and rain collided with South Florida on Sunday morning.
At 3 p.m., according to the nursing home, the main power supply at Hollywood Hills flickered, but only for a moment.
The transformer that powered the air-conditioning system, however, was dead.
The risk to older and debilitated adults in the aftermath of hurricanes, especially in summer weather, should have been obvious.
As people grow older, bodily systems that fight heat break down.
People with common conditions such as heart trouble and diabetes are more susceptible to heat stroke, and those with dementia may not have the wherewithal to remove sweaters or blankets or to drink more to avoid dehydration.
Drugs often used in nursing homes can also inhibit sweating, the bodys main defense.
Officials said Hollywood Hills had been advised to call 911 if anyone was in trouble.
The home said it did call 911.
But doing so when someone is in extremis may already be too late.
You prevent heat stroke by preventing people from getting so hot that they suffer from it, said Dr. Paul Auerbach, a professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University.
The prevention is essential.
Photo

Dr. George Kuchel, a geriatric medicine specialist and the director of the UConn Center on Aging, said bodily temperatures can spike rapidly.
We see it often, he said.
Theyre able to compensate until a certain point but then are overwhelmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Calls but Little Action

The Monday after the hurricane, the power company said it would repair the transformer that morning, according to a timeline provided by the nursing home.
Then it promised to send someone in the afternoon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More phone calls went out to state health and emergency management officials, and even to the governors cellphone.
A psychiatric hospital in the same building, Larkin Community Hospital Behavioral Health Services, which shared an owner with Hollywood Hills, also called to ask for help.
Our A.C. is down and we do have chillers, but theyre not cooling the building enough, an executive of that facility, Natasha Anderson, said in a call to the states emergency information hotline at 5:37 p.m. on Monday, according to a transcript of the call released by the governors office.
Its like 80 degrees in the building right now with elderly and psychiatric patients.
When Eva Moulder, 64, checked on her 93-year-old mother, Bertha Aguiar, who lived at the home and has Alzheimers, she noticed portable air-conditioners in the hallway.
Her mothers small room on the first floor was a little warm.
She opened a window to let in a breeze.
But the temperature seemed normal, she said.
All around South Florida, however, concern about seniors was rising.
On Tuesday morning, caller after caller reported that nursing homes and retirement communities where thousands of seniors lived had no power.
Century Village had none.
Neither did Wynmoor Village.
Sometime that day, according to records released by the governors office, a note was added to Broward Countys emergency management system: The building that housed Larkin and Hollywood Hills is running on generator power w/o air conditioning.
The conditions were adversely affecting patients, the note said.
The power company had been alerted, the note said, and a representative from the state agency that oversees elder-care facilities was aware.
Voice mail messages left on Mr. Scotts cellphone were transcribed by staff members into emails that were forwarded to other state officials.
But the problems remained unsolved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Broward County, the mayor, Barbara Sharief, said in an interview that Hollywood Hills never told the county there was an emergency.
Accordingly, she said, when she met with power company executives that afternoon, she did not single out the residence when she urged them to move all nursing homes and senior communities to the critical category for restoring power.
The power company told her that prioritizing all such buildings was impossible, she said.
There were just too many.
In a statement, Florida Power & Light officials said they could not say much because of the investigation, but they echoed comments made by state and county officials that customers should call 911 in a life-threatening situation.
Inside the building, the heat was closing in.
Adriana Giraldo came to visit her 89-year-old parents, Libia and Gabriel Giraldo, at 8 that evening.
Upstairs, where residents with dementia and others who could not take care of themselves lived, nothing was normal.
Rolled out of their usual rooms into the hallway, some people lay in their beds in front of a large, ineffectual fan.
They normally wore pajama-like clothing; now they had only light hospital gowns on.
A video Ms. Giraldo shot on her cellphone showed Ms. Hibbard crumpled in motionless misery.
She was naked except for a diaper.
Photo

Ms. Giraldo found her parents, who ultimately survived the ordeal, in bed in their small beige room, wearing socks and blankets, which she hurried to relieve them of.
The window was cracked open, with the floral drapes pulled up to keep the slit clear.
(The nursing home did not explain why the windows were not more open, but some homes restrict openings for residents safety.)
A small fan was running.
Someone brought water when she asked, but there was no ice.
One resident, a 93-year-old man, was taken to the hospital with a fever sometime that day.
But no alarms went off.
That evening, the homes administrator, Jorge Carballo, checked on every resident, one of whom is his father-in-law, according to Hollywood Hills.
Doctors and a physician assistant had made the rounds earlier that day.
No one seemed to be in distress, the home said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was staffed well above state requirements, and residents were monitored by both caregivers and nonclinical individuals, the homes lawyers, Kirsten Ullman and Julie Allison, said in a statement.
There was no indication at this time that a global emergency existed based on overall conditions at Hollywood Hills.
One Death After Another

The calls for rescue, when they finally came, kept coming in gasps all that long and airless night.
Ms. Hibbard, the first person to make it to the emergency room that Wednesday morning, with a diagnosis of heat stroke, was removed from life support and died.
Just minutes after hospital workers had cleaned Room 9 and restocked it with supplies, another patient arrived: Carolyn Eatherly, 78, who, like Ms. Hibbard, had no family.
Her heart had stopped.
Her forehead was purple.
At 4:33 a.m., about half an hour before she was pronounced dead, she had a temperature of 108.3.
By then, other residents were going into cardiac arrest.
At 6 a.m., Hollywood Hillss director of nursing told the staff to move everyone from the hotter second floor to the cooler first floor, according to a court filing by the nursing home contesting the states move to shut it down.
The emergency responders who had seen the residents and felt the heat for themselves decided that everyone had to get out.
We had no idea the extent of what was going on until we literally sent people room to room to check on people, said Dr. Randy Katz, the hospitals chairman of emergency medicine.
Many of the families heard something was wrong for the first time that morning when they turned on their televisions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A friend called Ms. Craig.
I dont want to scare you, she told Ms. Craig, but turn on CNN.
Ms. Craig was thinking, What did I do?
she said in an interview, breaking off to sob.
She blamed herself for putting her mother in the home.
She prayed: Oh God, please dont let my mother be dead.
I just imagined her wanting me there with her, she said, looking at the door, wondering when I was going to get her out of the heat.
When she found her mother in the hospital just before noon, she had a fever of 102 degrees, an IV in each arm and a catheter.
Her hair was matted; a whitish crust, like dried milk, glazed her hairline, her neck and the skin around her ears.
She whimpered, and jumped at Ms. Craigs touch.
She was not the lady that I left on Thursday, Ms. Craig said.
I trusted them.
I trusted them, and they failed my mother.
That morning  three days after Irma, a few hours after Ms. Hibbard died and soon after everyone else was evacuated  someone from the power company arrived at Hollywood Hills to fix the transformer.
It took 15 minutes to get the air-conditioning back on.
The Americas have generally led the world in eliminating diseases for which vaccines exist.
In this hemisphere, smallpox was eliminated in 1971, polio in 1994, rubella in 2015 and measles in 2016.
(The diseases are sometimes reintroduced, as measles was at Disneyland in 2014, but outbreaks are usually brought quickly under control.)
Also this week, the Presidents Malaria Initiative said it would expand its work to new countries in West and Central Africa, protecting 90 million more people.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The initiative, founded in 2005 as part of the United States Agency for International Development, has been a major force in driving down worldwide malaria deaths by about 40 percent in the past decade.
The disease most often kills young children and pregnant women.
The expansion in Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Sierra Leone and Burkina Faso was made possible because Congress increased funding for the initiative in fiscal year 2017, a representative said.
In his speech to the United Nations on Tuesday, President Trump praised the malaria initiative and the Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief as examples of leadership in humanitarian assistance by the United States.
A combination of aid agencies, drug companies and governments also announced that a new three-in-one antiretroviral cocktail to treat H.I.V.
would soon be available to 92 countries, including virtually all of Africa, for about $75 a year.
The new AIDS cocktail is the first available in poor countries to contain dolutegravir, which is widely used in wealthy countries because it is highly effective and has few side effects.
The pill also contains lamivudine, an older but still effective drug, and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, another modern drug whose inclusion years ago in drug cocktails for poor countries lowered the risk of side effects and resistance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Almost 37 million people in the world have H.I.V., according to Unaids, the U.N.s AIDS-fighting agency, but fewer than 20 million are now on antiretroviral medicine, which not only saves their lives but prevents them from passing on the disease.
The White House and Senate leaders are now in an intensive final push to repeal the Affordable Care Act by September 30.
After that, under Senate rules, they will need 60 votes, which they acknowledge is an impossibility.
Senator Graham said in a statement on Thursday that the legislation was gaining momentum and support because it would send money and power back to the states, and closer to patients, to deliver quality health care.
The legislation would turn over more than $1 trillion that would have been spent on the law known as Obamacare over the next seven years  everything from the funds for the expansion of Medicaid to the subsidies to help people buy private insurance  to states as block grants with very few strings attached.
They would then use the money to set up their own health care programs.
Congress would have to reauthorize the money after 2026 or it would go away.
The decisions about individual mandates, mandated benefits, and all the other decisions the ACA moved to Washington are best made at the state level by governors who understand the unique needs of their states, said Gov.
Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican.
Arkansas expanded Medicaid under Obamacare, and would lose roughly $6 billion under the bill, but Governor Hutchinson supports the legislation nonetheless.
Graham-Cassidy is putting federal spending on a budget, he said.
That is the fiscal discipline the federal government and states both need to ensure the sustainability of Medicaid and other state health care programs.
Like previous Republican proposals, the bill would also cancel the federal governments commitment to the open-ended funding of the traditional Medicaid program, capping an entitlement for the poor and disabled that now covers one in five Americans.
States could choose to take some of that Medicaid money in a block grant too.
Winners and Losers

One of the most striking things about the bill is how it redistributes federal money among states.
Some states that have invested a lot in expanding coverage under Obamacare (many of them Democratic) would lose big to others (mostly Republican) that have fiercely resisted going along with the law and are hostile to federal spending in general.
Photo

The biggest spoils would go to Texas, which refused to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act and had the nations highest uninsured rate last year at 16.6 percent.
The health data firm Avalere estimated that Texas would receive an additional $35 billion by 2026 under the bills formula.
California, which has expanded coverage to an additional 3.7 million under the A.C.A.
would get $78 billion less through 2026 than under current law, and New York would see $45 billion less, Avalere found.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Mississippi, which Avalere calculated would reap an extra $6 billion through 2026, some public health officials were skeptical that the state would even want the money.
Mississippi has one of the nations sickest populations and has historically resisted federal funding for social welfare programs.
After the Affordable Care Act became law, Gov.
Phil Bryant, a Republican, rejected not only the chance to expand Medicaid but also his own state insurance commissioners attempt to create a state-based insurance marketplace with federal funds offered under the law.
Year after year we have fought to get our policy makers to take money from the feds, said Roy Mitchell, executive director of the Mississippi Health Advocacy Program.
I could just see another scenario like that with this bill.
These states that would see more money are just rife with ideologues that do not want to see this specific population get any kind of opportunity for affordable coverage.
Thats my stark reality.
In an emailed statement on Wednesday, Governor Bryant said his priority if the Senate bill passed would be to implement a system of health care that best fit the specific needs of Mississippis most vulnerable citizens, and did not endanger coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.
In Iowa, state officials have already filed a formal application to opt out of the Obamacare insurance market next year.
The insurance commissioner, Doug Ommen, said he liked the idea of a health care block grant even though under the bills formula, Iowa stood to lose some federal funding.
The proposal he submitted to the Trump administration would use the federal money that helps cover lower-income peoples deductibles to instead provide more premium subsidies and help insurers cover their most expensive customers costs.
It could be an early example of something states might try to do under the Senate bill, if the money was sufficient.
I think we would make it work here, Mr. Ommen said of the bill.
We are a proponent of flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Alabama, another winner under the Senate bill, Jim Carnes, policy director at Arise Citizens Policy Project, an advocacy group, described the bill as a bait and switch for the state.
The early gains from the redistribution will take a nose-dive 10 years out and we will lose billions, he said.
No state is a winner in the end.
Remaking Medicaid

The bill would make the most sweeping changes to Medicaid since the programs inception in 1965.
It goes farther than previous Senate proposals, and a bill passed by the House in May, by eliminating the expansion of Medicaid set up by the Affordable Care Act, which has extended the programs coverage to 11 million more lower-income people, and putting the money into block grants starting in 2020.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The states could use that money for a variety of health care expenses, including creating high-risk pools to cover particularly expensive patients, to create a health care exchange run by the state, or to subsidize the cost of premiums or out of pocket costs for people with private insurance.
Photo

In all, Medicaid now covers 74 million Americans, most of them poor but also middle class people with disabilities and in nursing homes.
The federal government shares the cost of Medicaid with states, and has traditionally paid between 50 and 75 percent of the costs, with poor states receiving more money.
The commitment was open-ended; the government covered its share no matter the cost, or how many people enrolled.
The federal government picked up the entire cost of the Medicaid expansion at first, with that share ultimately tapering to 90 percent.
Like previous Republican proposals, Graham-Cassidy would cap traditional Medicaid spending on a per-person basis, based on a complex formula.
That provision worries many hospital systems.
These funding reductions are unsustainable for many Ohio hospitals, said John Palmer, a spokesman for the Ohio Hospital Association, adding that nearly 20 percent of hospitals in the state already spend more than they take in.
Its hard to overstate the potential effects.
Medicaid now provides medical care to four out of 10 American children, and covers the costs of nearly half of all births in the United States, as well as care for two-thirds of people in nursing homes and also for 10 million children and adults with physical or mental disabilities.
It would unleash massive health care debates in every state capital, said Mr. Levitt, at Kaiser.
All these tough decisions would no longer be on Congress plate but on the plates of governors.
Consumer Protections

The proposal is much more aggressive than some of the other Republican plans in rolling back the Affordable Care Acts consumer protections, say health care lawyers and other experts who have studied the bill.
It would allow states to stop requiring insurers to cover essential health care needs like hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and mental health treatment.
Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, a co-author of the legislation, has insisted that it would continue to provide vital protections to people with chronic illnesses so they would be able to find health insurance.
But lawyers say the bill would allow states an almost unfettered ability to permit insurance companies to charge someone with, say, cancer or diabetes much higher rates  or to exclude certain expensive conditions like pregnancy or addiction from the plans they offer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Though it is unclear how many would do so, states would be able to waive the existing rules much more easily because the bill would only require a state to explain how it intended to cover people with pre-existing conditions.
Its not at all required that their explanation or plan meets any kind of standard, said Richard J. Zall, a partner at the law firm Proskauer.
Moreover, unlike previous proposals, the bill would pave the way for insurers to adjust their prices every time someone renewed a policy, based on the individuals changing health status.
People could sign up for a plan and see the price skyrocket if they developed a potentially serious condition like cancer, said Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow at the Kaiser foundation.
Even the way people bought insurance would change in states that relied on the current federal insurance marketplace, which allows people to buy subsidized plans through HealthCare.gov.
It would be dismantled in 2020.
The federal exchanges go away, said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor at Washington and Lee University law school who opposes to the bill.
Instead of setting up their own website so people can shop for a plan, the state could use the money to set up high-risk insurance pools for people with expensive chronic conditions or pay hospitals and doctors directly for care.
But even with the best of intentions, the time frame is very short for states to come up with an alternative plan, he said.
The biggest problem is how are states are going to do this in two years, Mr. Jost said.
Photo

More than half of all American teenagers are getting vaccinated against human papillomavirus, and the rate is rising over time, according to a new report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Sixty percent of adolescents received one or more doses of the HPV vaccine in 2016, an increase of 4 percentage points from 2015, researchers found.
About a decade ago, the figure was less than 30 percent.
Were really encouraged to see this finding, said Shannon Stokley, a co-author of the report and associate director for science at the Immunization Services Division of the C.D.C.
The vaccine protects against strains of HPV that can cause cancers of the cervix, penis, anus and back of the throat.
Close to half of all Americans are infected at any given time, and nearly 32,000 get cancer from the virus each year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 90 percent of those cases could be prevented with the vaccine, according to the C.D.C.
The agency used to recommend three doses, but new guidelines introduced last year amended that to two doses for adolescents younger than age 15.
Photo

Q. I take mass transit every day.
Would wearing a glove (or holding something) to create a barrier between me and the stainless steel I grab onto every day be effective at reducing the potential for picking up germs?
Yes, using some kind of barrier to avoid getting germs on your hands will help prevent germ transmission, researchers say.
But its not clear that such protection will really make much difference.
Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a professor of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University, would like someone to invent what hes dubbed the subway condom  something you could slip over your hand to protect against germs.
Dr. Lipkin, who has researched the germs in New York City, always uses a glove or other physical barrier when he grasps transit poles.
There are all sorts of bacteria and viruses that sit on surfaces, he said.
He notes that outdoor surfaces, like mailbox handles, are sterilized by the suns UV rays, but there is no such natural protection deep underground.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Short of a subway condom, Dr. Lipkin suggests that people wash their hands as soon as possible after touching such public surfaces, and keep their hands away from their eyes or mouth in the meantime.
He said hes also resorted to wrapping his elbow around poles, instead of his hands, because hes less likely to infect himself from his elbow.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Curtis Huttenhower, a computational biologist at the Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, agrees with Dr. Lipkins advice but doesnt worry much himself about picking up germs from public surfaces.
In his own research on the Boston T system, Dr. Huttenhower said he found the kinds of germs that are typically found in any communal environment, like an office.
And communities from Appalachia to the Rocky Mountains and beyond are feeling its effects at all ages.
In August, in the latest sign of the direness of the situation, President Trump said he would declare the opioid crisis a national emergency, a move that could allow cities and states to access federal disaster relief funds.
Eighty-seven children died of opioid intoxication in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, up from just 16 in 1999.
By comparison, gunshot wounds kill four or five times as many children each year.
But at hospitals like Primary Childrens in Utah, drug overdoses now outstrip gun injuries among young people.
There are no pill parties happening in preschools, said Dr. Jennifer Plumb, the emergency doctor who recently treated four opioid-sick toddlers in a night.
These kids arent making a choice because they are trying to get high on a substance.
Its that the pills are everywhere.
Unlike infants born with addiction, these children are coming across heroin and other drugs in the days and years after birth.
In Philadelphia this summer, a 9-month-old rolled onto a needle while in bed with her father.
Kyleeh Isabella Mazaba, 20 months, died after drinking methadone left in a water bottle in the family van.
James Lionel Vessell Jr., 2, swallowed oxycodone pills he found in a purse on his mothers bed.
And in early August, Kentucky officials treated an infant and three emergency responders believed to have been sickened by carfentanil-laced heroin that traveled through the air.
Often, emergency responders attempt to revive children with Narcan, an overdose reversal drug that works on small bodies as well as large ones.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Then come the questions for investigators.
How did the substance get there?
How did the child find it?
Can this be stopped?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sometimes officials charge caretakers with neglect or manslaughter.
In one case this year, the authorities accused a couple of child endangerment after they admitted to rubbing Suboxone on their daughters gums, an attempt to hide the fact that she was born with an addiction.
But often the details go undiscovered, with witnesses too young to offer their own accounts.
Penny Mae Cormani was born Nov. 12, 2014, to Cassandra Leydsman and Casey Cormani, both mired in addiction.
A year later, while the three of them were staying with another couple, Penny ingested enough heroin to kill a grown man.
Ms. Leydsman, the grandmother, said she believes Penny was scooting around on the floor during breakfast and found a bit of heroin, eating it like any child would.
The official record is silent on exactly how the infant found the substance.
But Pennys parents pleaded guilty to third-degree felonies  Cassandra to child abuse homicide and Casey to attempted manslaughter  and went to prison.
Cassandra Leydsman is likely to serve 36 months.
Ms. Leydsman, 68, is a devout Mormon who raised five children with her husband, a retired pharmaceuticals manager.
She traced her daughters addiction back more than a decade, to a car accident that prompted a doctor to prescribe OxyContin.
This led to a pill addiction that led to a heroin addiction that ultimately ended in Pennys death.
The family buried Penny in a baby cemetery south of Salt Lake City.
Ms. Leydsman visits regularly, bringing with her holiday decorations, balloons and soft toys.
In prison, Cassandra is receiving drug treatment.
She knows shes responsible, Ms. Leydsman said of her daughter.
And its a terrible burden to go around knowing youre responsible for the death of your child.
In Utah, most opioid overdoses at the states only childrens hospital involve buprenorphine, oxycodone, methadone and hydrocodone, and Dr. Plumb attributes the problem to the states continued dependence on legal painkillers.
In a state of three million people, pharmacists fill some 7,200 opioid prescriptions a day, according to 2015 data.
Curious toddlers, Dr. Plumb said, are finding moms Suboxone strip, grandpas OxyContin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Montgomery County, Ohio, which includes Dayton, the story is different.
Drug peddlers have flooded the community with fentanyl, a legal synthetic used for extreme pain, and powerful analogues like carfentanil, a substance 5,000 times stronger than heroin.
Inhaling, touching or ingesting a carfentanil dose smaller than a few grains of salt can be lethal.
Dr. Kelly Liker, the medical director for child advocacy at Dayton Childrens Hospital, attributes a growing number of child overdoses to the rise of these substances.
In September of last year, Lee L. Hayes, 2, died in Montgomery County of fentanyl intoxication.
In April, Nathan L. Wylie, 13, died of similar poisoning.
And in May, Marionna Allen, 1, fatally overdosed in her grandmothers home on Daytons East Fifth Street.
Its a disgrace that kids have to be subject to this, said Marionnas great-grandmother, who declined to give her name.
Theyre innocent, they dont have a clue, and they dont know drugs from candy.
But times change, and Mr. Palen is now taking a more antagonistic approach.
All Types Welcome is a condemnation of blood donation rules set by the Food and Drug Administration that prohibit most gay or bisexual men from giving; before donating, they have to forgo same-sex sexual encounters for at least a year, a contentious precaution resulting from concerns about H.I.V.
Its exclusion, and its ridiculous, and its discriminatory, Ms. Lepore said in an interview.
Mark Burg, the producer who has helped steer the Saw franchise, was even more blunt.
We want this policy changed, he said.
An F.D.A.
spokeswoman, Lyndsay Meyer, noted that the celibacy rule, enacted in 2015, replaced a more restrictive policy.
While acknowledging at the time that the change to a 12-month deferral was less than hoped for by some, the F.D.A.
considered this to be a first step, Ms. Meyer said, adding that studies are underway to help inform further changes to policy.
The Red Cross, the nations largest blood supplier, has also drawn fire for its approach to transgender donors.
Until recently, federal guidelines recommended that trans people be required to register at blood centers under the gender they were assigned at birth.
Photo

The Red Cross believes all potential blood donors should be treated with fairness, equality and respect, Jodi D. Sheedy, a Red Cross spokeswoman, said in an email.
She added, Accurate donor histories and medically supported donor deferral criteria are critical to blood supply safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Palen is one of Hollywoods savviest marketers, and his latest campaign reflects several trends, including a focus on diversity.
In the past, Mr. Palen has cast young women (most often white) as nurse mascots for the Saw blood drives.
Now we have different races, genders, ages and sexual orientations, he said.
Joining Ms. Lepore and Mr. Ross as twisted nurses are people like Nyakim Gatwech, a Sudanese model; a YouTube and Instagram star named Mykie; and the sexagenarian event producer Susanne Bartsch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
While inclusion remains far from Hollywoods strength, many consumer brands have started to loudly ring the representation bell.
Last year, for instance, CoverGirl named its first cover boy and made a beauty blogger, Nura Afia, its first hijab-wearing cosmetics ambassador.
It is also notable that Mr. Palen is tapping into rage culture.
Hollywood marketers are mostly allergic to controversy, but nothing lights a fire on social media like indignation, and a growing number of advertisers are trying to spark thought-provoking discussions.
The North Face, for instance, indirectly references President Trumps plans for a Mexico border wall with its new Walls Are Meant for Climbing brand campaign.
The topical approach can backfire.
Just ask Pepsi and Kendall Jenner.
Its easy to be provocative, Mr. Palen said.
Its less easy to be provocative in a way that inspires people to see your movie.
The Saw nurses were an early example of what Hollywood types now like to call world building.
There are no major nurse characters in the movies (some of which are also not particularly bloody).
Rather, Mr. Palens creations are meant to add a layer of immersion for fans.
The first Saw nurse was a Lionsgate executive; Mr. Palen took her photo in his backyard and posted the image online to promote the blood drive.
Maybe a few horror fan sites covered it, he said.
There was no such thing as going viral back then.
In a snapshot of how powerful the internet has come as a marketing tool, Lionsgate now has roughly 420 million followers on platforms like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.
To gain additional reach for the All Types Welcome effort, Mr. Palen recruited the eight social media stars.
Everyones making content, everyones a creator, everyone has a microphone, he said.
So to have the nurse campaign play in that space and have personalities feel some ownership in the campaign felt like a great way to evolve.
And no more backyard shoots for Mr. Palen, who took over a cavernous stage for two days  complete with a D.J.
and an open bar  this time around.
As the Pharrell Williams song Marilyn Monroe played toward the end of the second day, Ms. Lepore teetered on a stack of metallic boxes in white spike heels.
Sexy, fetish nurse doll is how Mr. Palen had described her look.
Amazing, he murmured, standing on tiptoe to take her picture.
When Mr. Palen was done, the 16 people in the room clapped, and Ms. Lepore did a little curtsy.
Nine droogs (and one alternate droog) gathered an hour and a half before showtime at New World Stages on a recent Friday night.
To a chorus of syncopated grunts, oohs and aahs, they began to warm up.
Most actors preparing to go onstage exercise their voices, do some stretching or Zen out with peace and quiet.
The unusual high-intensity warm-up for A Clockwork Orange, however, could rev up Floyd Mayweather for his next pay-per-view.
Photo

Jonno Davies, the shows 25-year-old lead, urged his castmates on through jumping jacks, squat thrusts, burpees, dips, push-ups, biceps work and other exercises, with no rest in between.
Then came yoga poses to cool down, as the Foo Fighters blared in the background.
Just two hours later, Mr. Davies, as the ultraviolent teenager Alex, would be leading the gang in onstage rapes and beatings in the theatrical adaptation of Anthony Burgesss classic 1962 novel, which opens in New York on Monday.
The 90-minute show, directed by Alexandra Spencer-Jones, made its debut in 2012 at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, with later runs in Australia, Norway, Singapore and London.
Photo

Now Alex, who unmercifully pummels his way through young adulthood for sport before eventually finding that his angry impulses have been conditioned out of him, and his fellow denizens of the Korova Milkbar have arrived Off Broadway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most taxing part of being in the all-male cast may be the training.
But the results?
Sculpted physiques straight out of Mens Health magazine.
But bookmakers, backed by other researchers, counter that there is no clear evidence that the machine is any more addictive than other kinds of gambling  like the online casino, a product that is restricted in the United States but legal in Britain.
They warn that banning the machines, which are found only in British betting shops and provide more than half their profits, would lead to the loss of thousands of jobs.
For campaigners, a set of statistics published in August by the Gambling Commission, which regulates the British gambling industry, highlighted the urgency of the matter: It suggested that the number of British problem gamblers, or people whose lives are damaged by their gambling, had risen by almost 50 percent between 2012 and 2015, from 280,000 to 430,000.
The bookmakers, though, pointed to a line in the report that said the rate of problem gambling had remained statistically stable, because both figures are small compared with the British population as a whole.
Photo

The history of fixed odds betting terminals is under less dispute.
They were introduced into British betting shops in 2001, at a time when the government of Tony Blair, then the prime minister, was accelerating the gambling industrys transformation, as the academic David Runciman has argued, from one that was permitted only to meet demand into one that was allowed to stimulate it.
Today, there are roughly 33,000 such machines spread across Britains 9,000 betting shops.
They collectively provided a profit of more than 1.8 billion last year, far more than those outlets made from bets on horse races, dog races and soccer matches combined.
Roughly half of the terminals are supplied by a subsidiary of a company headed by the American businessman Ronald Perelman, who is friends with President Trump.
The configuration of the machines themselves is unique to Britain, partly because their settings are illegal in some other countries.
The machines allow users to place bets of up to 100, once every 20 seconds, on computerized casino games such as roulette.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While researchers are divided on the subject, many gambling addicts say that the machines singular features make them uniquely addictive and uniquely harmful, both accelerating the rate of loss and decreasing the waiting time between bets.
Its a gamblers dream, said Jason Haddigan, a former addict who wrote about his decades-long addiction in a new book, How and Why I Conned the Bookies.
You get the buzz straightaway and you get hooked straightaway.
Bookmakers dispute these claims.
There is no link between gaming machines in betting shops and problem gambling, said Gary Follis, a spokesman for the Association for British Bookmakers, citing the Gambling Commissions recent report, which suggested that problem gamblers tend to use several different gambling products.
Bookmakers also argue that the campaign against fixed odds betting terminals is backed by people who make money from other kinds of gambling, and say that banning the machines would force many shops to close, leading to job losses.
That argument strikes campaigners as myopic, given the social damage they say the machines are already causing to some of Britains poorest communities.
Figures from the Campaign for Fairer Gambling suggest that there are twice as many such terminals in the countrys 55 most deprived areas as there are in the 115 richest districts (which contain the same population), and more than double the losses.
Socially, its decimating communities, said Carolyn Harris, a Labour Party lawmaker who heads a parliamentary group that discusses the machines.
The less money you put in these machines, the more disposable income people will have to put into other businesses, she said, adding that banning them would boost the economy and create employment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Research commissioned by the Campaign for Fairer Gambling in 2015 suggested that for every 5,000 jobs that might be created by the machines, a further 25,000 jobs would be lost.
Campaigners want to ban the terminals  or at the very least to lower the maximum bet to 2.
But the betting industry has so far fought such a successful countercampaign that Parliament has yet to add any new restrictions.
(It emerged this month that members of Parliament had accepted a greater amount of gifts and hospitality from Ladbrokes Coral, Britains biggest betting company, than from any other source in the past year.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Part of the problem facing Parliament is that different investigations into the machines addictiveness have drawn different conclusions, making it easy for bookmakers to argue that there is not enough evidence to support changing the law.
A 2007 survey by the National Center for Social Research showing that the machines were the most common cause of gambling addiction in Britain was contradicted by other surveys the organization conducted in 2010 and 2012.
Most controversially, the waters were also muddied by a 2014 report commissioned by GambleAware, Britains largest gambling addiction charity, that said more research was needed to discern a causal link between gambling machines and gambling addiction.
Critics of the gambling industry say these discrepancies have been subtly encouraged by the industry itself.
Photo

After interviewing 67 stakeholders in the British gambling industry, Rebecca Cassidy, a professor at Goldsmiths, University of London, concluded that academic research into gambling was a second-rate field because of the proliferation of industry-financed research projects.
To comply with British law, the countrys bookmakers must voluntarily donate money each year for research into and treatment of problem gambling.
But most do this solely through GambleAware, which funded the controversial 2014 research into fixed odds betting terminals.
As a result, GambleAware is now the largest single source of financing for British gambling research, while simultaneously attracting claims that it is too close to the companies it is supposed to be examining impartially.
The Charity Commission, which regulates British charities, has ruled that there is no conflict of interest to the way that GambleAware commissions research.
The charity itself also says that it operates independently of the industry, and works to research guidelines set by another regulatory body.
Theres no question of money coming in with strings attached, Iain Corby, GambleAwares deputy chief executive, said in an interview, adding later, We are the good guys.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the charity has attracted criticism because until recently, roughly half of its trustees were representatives of the gambling industry.
The government is due to release a long-awaited review of fixed odds betting terminals in October, and campaigners hope it will recommend increased restrictions on their use.
Yet others, including Mr. Franklin, say the government needs to reform not just machine gambling, but also the industry as a whole.
The controversial machines are just one part of a massive problem, he said.
One part of the cradle-to-grave electronic gambling extraction business that is causing untold unhappiness in this country.
For months, Mr. McCain has lamented a Senate legislative process that avoided hearings or formal bill-drafting procedures and excluded Democrats.
On Friday, he said those tactics were intolerable.
We should not be content to pass health care legislation on a party-line basis, as Democrats did when they rammed Obamacare through Congress in 2009, Mr. McCain said.
If we do so, our success could be as short-lived as theirs when the political winds shift, as they regularly do.
Photo

A bill of this magnitude requires a bipartisan approach, Mr. McCain added.
Those concerns were compounded by the decision of Republican leaders to press forward with a vote next week before the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office could complete a full analysis of the Graham-Cassidy legislation.
The budget office is expected to provide a preliminary fiscal assessment early in the week, but it indicated that it would not be able to complete an analysis of the bills effects on health insurance coverage or premiums by Sept. 30.
That date is critical because Republicans, who hold 52 seats in the Senate, have until the end of this month to make use of special budget rules that would allow them to pass a repeal bill in the Senate with only a simple majority, rather than 60 votes.
If Republicans could get 50 votes, Vice President Mike Pence would break the tie in their favor.
Of course, Im disappointed, Mr. Cassidy said in an interview, but that doesnt mean that Im going to stop working for those folks who cant afford their premiums.
We are still working.
We are still hoping.
Mr. Graham, mindful of their longstanding relationship, was gracious.
My friendship with John McCain is not based on how he votes, Mr. Graham said, but respect for how hes lived his life and the person he is.
President Trump, who has promised to scrap President Barack Obamas signature domestic achievement, said late Friday he would not abandon his goal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Maybe were going to do it now  its a little tougher without McCains vote, Ill be honest, he said Friday night at a campaign rally for Senator Luther Strange, Republican of Alabama, who is locked in a tough primary runoff for his seat.
The most well be is one or two votes short, Mr. Trump said.
You cant quit when you have one or two votes short.
You cant do it.
And those people are not going to be liked by the communities that they come from.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A spokeswoman for the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, declined to comment on whether he would press forward with a vote.
Democrats have vowed that if the repeal legislation could be killed, they would press to resume bipartisan negotiations on legislation to stabilize health insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Republican leaders squelched those talks, led by Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, as they pushed for passage of a full repeal bill.
John McCain shows the same courage in Congress that he showed when he was a naval aviator, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
I have assured Senator McCain that as soon as repeal is off the table, we Democrats are intent on resuming the bipartisan process.
If the bill dies at the hands of Senators McCain, Paul and Collins, it would be another blow to Mr. Trump, who has tried to pressure Republicans to fall in line.
It would also be another setback for a party that now controls the White House and both houses of Congress, but has not been able to produce any major legislative achievements.
Republican lawmakers have promised for seven years to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, but they have found that verbally assailing the health law is far easier than actually undoing it, even with a president who shares their goal.
Its a loss for Republicans, said Representative Mark Walker of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative Republican Study Committee.
I think were all going to be held accountable to some degree.
What that means in next years elections, I dont know.
But this is going to bite for a while.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Graham-Cassidy bill would take much of the money provided under the Affordable Care Act and send it to the states, with vast discretion over how to use it for health care or coverage.
The bill has been met in the last few days with a torrent of criticism from consumer groups, doctors, hospitals, insurance companies, governors and state Medicaid officials.
Photo

Under the bill, states would have more authority over how to use federal funds, but most states  including Arizona  would receive less money under the bill than under the Affordable Care Act, according to studies by the Kaiser Family Foundation and health policy consulting firms.
The bill would also give states the ability to opt out of insurance regulations under the health law.
States could seek federal waivers that would allow insurers to charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions or to omit certain benefits that they are now required to provide, such as maternity care or mental health care.
Republican leaders will now likely have to change an opponents mind, but if anything, more opponents could emerge, with Ms. Murkowski on the top of the list.
Alaskas governor, Bill Walker, an independent, publicly opposes the bill and has joined nine other governors in signing a letter urging the Senate to reject the proposal.
In an interview, Mr. Walker said he did not believe any special accommodation could be reached for his state, because the overall structure was so damaging to Alaska.
He said he had communicated his concerns extensively to Ms. Murkowski.
Alaska would fare very, very poorly, he said.
Nothing has been brought to my attention that would increase my comfort level.
A spokeswoman for Ms. Murkowski, Karina Petersen, said the senator is studying the matter.
Senator Murkowski is still focused on how the bill will impact Alaska, specifically, Ms. Petersen said.
Shes continuing to gather data and is looking at the details of the bill to determine whats best for her state.
Doug Ducey of Arizona, a Republican, supports the Graham-Cassidy proposal, and Mr. McCain had made a point of emphasizing that he was keenly interested in the views of his states governor when contemplating whether to vote for repeal legislation.
But Mr. Duceys position was not enough to sway Mr. McCain.
I take no pleasure in announcing my opposition, Mr. McCain said.
Far from it.
The bills authors are my dear friends, and I think the world of them.
I know they are acting consistently with their beliefs and sense of what is best for the country.
So am I.

Mr. McCain said that if the repeal attempt failed, he hoped the leaders of the Senate health committee would resume their efforts to devise a short-term bipartisan solution to some of the problems plaguing insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Mr. Alexander and Ms. Murray have been working on a bill to stabilize markets by providing money for subsidies paid to insurers so they can reduce out-of-pocket costs for low-income people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Ms. Murray, the top Democrat on the panel, held four hearings in two weeks and were nearing an agreement on legislation.
But their efforts were derailed when the White House and Senate Republican leaders pushed hard for a vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill, in the face of opposition from every Democrat in the Senate.
Dating violence can be digital.
Parents should consider talking with their teenagers about abusive relationships, and a conversation about digital mistreatment would be a good place to start.
In a recent survey, more than half of adolescent girls and boys had dated someone who tried to monitor or control them by texting so frequently that it made the recipient uncomfortable, expecting immediate responses, asking for their passwords, or tracking their location or social activity.
The same report also found that nearly half of teenagers had been in a relationship with a partner who used technology against them, either to spread rumors, post embarrassing or hurtful messages, or make threats.
And roughly a third experienced sexual coercion via digital means: they were pressured to have sex, received unwanted sexual images or were urged to send them, or had their nude pictures sent to others without permission.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In talking with our teenagers about coercive relationships, we should acknowledge that if someone wants to know what you are doing all the time, that can feel like a really close relationship but that healthy romances are grounded in trust and support, not spying or intimidation.
Further, we can tell our teenagers that we stand ready to help if they ever feel pushed around by a boyfriend or girlfriend, either online or in person.
In my experience, adolescents are greatly relieved when we remind them to alert an adult if they are concerned about their own or a friends health and safety.
Digital dating violence falls squarely into this category as, not surprisingly, it has been linked in some studies to physical and sexual victimization, especially against girls.
Relationships can become round-the-clock affairs.
Its hard to imagine that anything could up the intensity of a teenagers first love, but digital technology seems to have done the job.
When adolescents in my practice talk about their happy romances, Im often amazed at how completely their lives are saturated by them.
Teenage couples awaken together by text or call, communicate  hopefully not while driving  on the way to school, connect in person during the day while still texting, FaceTime through their homework, then virtually snuggle online before falling asleep.
On more than one occasion Ive found myself listening to the details of a teenagers day thinking that my husband and I, except for when we traveled together before we had children, have never been as completely intertwined as many young couples are now.
Most adolescents keep up their friendships and activities even when enjoying healthy, albeit wall-to-wall, romances.
Still, its important to appreciate what it means for a teenager when an omnipresent relationship ends.
In addition to contending with heartbreak, the suddenly single teenager has to find a new way to begin and end each day and to fill a lot of the time in between.
Lovelorn teenagers usually bounce back pretty quickly, but parents shouldnt underestimate the scale of the loss in the short term.
Technology adds some new twists to the age-old roller coaster of teenage romance.
Our adolescents may know more than we do about the online world, but we know more about the romantic one.
Even if their love lives dont look like the ones we remember, we still owe it to teenagers to find ways to offer our support and guidance.
But hospice should actually be thought of as game on  now its time to really start taking care of the patient.
And contrary to the assumption that hospice equals death, data show that early referral to hospice actually improves life expectancy.
My patient and her family agreed to give hospice a try.
Within weeks, they were singing its praises.
The hospice nurse visited weekly and whenever a clinical situation arose  a fever, pain, trouble breathing, a fall,  the nurse texted me and we could quickly figure out what needed to be done, and how to do it with the least hassle for the patient.
Even though we werent pursuing curative therapy  her cardiac and respiratory disease were grave and irreversible  we were able to put out the little fires before they became big fires.
The goal was always maximizing comfort.
In some ways, hospice care struck me as the original concierge medicine, where a whole team of players dedicated itself to the patients every need.
This was the closest we could get to ideal medical care.
It didnt escape me, though, that this level of care could only be feasible for a handful of patients.
If every one of my hundreds of patients had my cellphone number and texted every time something came up, the system would collapse under its own weight.
Still, I was intensely grateful that this patient remained comfortable, happy, pain-free and able to remain in her home with her loving family.
Just as the data predicted, she was living far longer than any of us would have expected, given her congestive heart failure and her severe respiratory disease.
It was now 18 months since we started the hospice care.
The paradox is that a patient can qualify for hospice care only if he or she has a life expectancy of six months or less, if the disease runs its normal course.
My patient certainly fit that definition, but as we focused intensely on making her more comfortable, she was living longer.
Every six months I recertified that my patient indeed had end-stage cardiac and respiratory disease.
And although she was clearly frailer at each certification, she remained comfortable and pain-free.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Most patients, sadly, get referred to hospice only in the very last days or weeks of their illness, which explains the misperception that nothing is done for the patient other than fluff the pillows on the way to death.
Even for patients with end-stage cancer, the earlier they are referred to palliative care (care focused on patient comfort), the longer they usually live.
These thoughts circled in my head as I slogged through the torrential rain toward my patients home.
Id asked her daughter if maybe we could reschedule for the next day, when it would be less monsoon-like.
I think you should probably come today, her daughter replied.
Her voice was straightforward and unhurried, but as soon as she said that I angled my umbrella into the downpour and didnt lift it until I arrived at her building, 20 sopping blocks later.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Their apartment was brimming with ferns, vines and succulents.
It was almost as if theyd recreated the jungle of their home country in the concrete of New York City.
In the midst of this verdant lair, my patient reclined comfortably on the couch, her face radiating warmth and welcome amid the greenery and medical equipment surrounding her.
She gave me a big hug and invited me onto the couch next to her.
A breathing mask from a nearby BiPAP machine covered her mouth and nose, but she could still talk.
It was obvious how proud she was of her two daughters who sat nearby.
Sitting there, it dawned on me that my patient had won the lottery.
Shed lived a long and happy life, with a loving extended family in two countries.
Her final days were being spent on her own couch, among her plants and family, her favorite TV shows and music.
After 45 minutes visiting, I kissed her goodbye and shared hugs with the daughters.
I headed back out into the rain, nursing a sadness and a relief at the same time.
That evening her daughter called me.
Her mother had died peacefully on the couch, just hours after Id left.
The moment froze as the solemnity of her words sank in.
Yes, wed been expecting this for more than a year, but now it had actually happened.
Even as we spoke, the hospice team was taking care of the logistics so that the family  and I  could focus on the emotions of the moment, and not the overwhelming details.
I think she needed one more visit from her doctor before she could go, her daughter said.
We both exhaled long sighs  wed been taking care of her mother together for two decades and now she had quietly bowed out.
Once again, I felt the strange churning of melancholy and joy.
We rarely think of death as a moment of joy, but this was certainly one.
Even in my sadness, I could feel the warmth of happiness for my patient that shed been able to end her life cradled in love and comfort.
She certainly did win the lottery.
I hope we all have that chance.
Such exchanges are the reason Hackett traveled 8,000 miles from Australia to Arizona last month to stay with Phelps and his wife, Nicole.
It wasnt his first visit.
He has used their home as something of a halfway house, joking that he spends so much time with them that he is getting mail there.
His life in Australia, where distance swimmers can become celebrities on a par with N.F.L.
quarterbacks in the United States, started careening out of control several years ago.
In February, it derailed in a very public fashion.
He visited his parents Gold Coast home, and his father, Neville, called the police to report that Hackett had been drinking and had suffered a mental breakdown that sent him into a rage.
The Olympian was taken to a detention center in handcuffs  a scene that was broadcast across Australia and set off a social media frenzy.
He was released without being charged, but his family was unable to find him the next morning.
Alarmed, Neville Hackett stepped before television cameras, described his son as a missing person in urgent need of help, and implored him to come home.
Grant, let us know where you are, he said.
We love you and we want to help you.
Phelps followed the drama from Paris, where he and Nicole spent Valentines Day.
He learned about what was happening in Australia through a text message from Allison Schmitt, another Olympic swimmer.
Photo

Phelps, who considers Hackett one of his dearest friends, sent a flurry of texts to him and then paced in his hotel room while he waited to hear back.
Nicole Phelps recalled her husband saying several times, with increasing urgency, We have to convince him to come home with us.
Hackett soon contacted his family, saying he was safe and simply hiding from the humiliation.
Phelps could empathize with Hackett in a way few others could.
Along with his 28 Olympic medals, Phelps accrued two arrests for driving under the influence  the second one after the police stopped him for going almost twice the speed limit on a road in Baltimore, his hometown.
He had also been photographed holding a bong at a private party, an image that ended up in a British tabloid.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After the second D.U.I.
arrest, in 2014, Phelps spent eight weeks at the Meadows, an Arizona treatment center, to deal with the anxiety and depression that he had tried to overcome on his own after the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Olympics.
Recognizing how difficult it is for many people to recognize their vulnerabilities and reach out for help, Phelps has devoted himself to unraveling the stigma of mental illness.
I want to be able to get out in public and talk and say, Yes, Ive done these great things in the pool, but Im also a human,  Phelps said, sweeping his gaze across the restaurant.
Im going through the same struggles as a lot of the people in this room.
Phelps has started some public speaking on the topic and has become an informal counselor to the stars, lending an ear to the golfer Tiger Woods after his arrest in May on charges of driving under the influence.
A toxicology report revealed no alcohol in Woodss system, but rather a mix of four prescription drugs and the active ingredient in marijuana.
I feel like thats a massive scream for help, Phelps said.
Photo

Over the summer, Phelps said, he met an 11-year-old boy in California who had appeared in a documentary about anxiety.
The boy was a swimmer, and he said he had wrestled with suicidal thoughts the year before.
Phelps told the boy about the days he spent curled up in bed, literally wanting to die, after his second D.U.I.
arrest.
At the end of the conversation, Phelps said, the boy told him, I have more in common with Michael Phelps than I ever thought.
Hackett, a rapt listener, said, Thats awesome.
A Star Needs Help

From 1997 to 2007, despite a collapsed lung and a bout of mononucleosis, Hackett was unbeaten in the 1,500 freestyle and also set world records in the 200 and 800 freestyles.
He won back-to-back Olympic gold medals in the 1,500 and missed a third one in the event by just over one second.
After he retired from the sport, Hacketts life resembled his freestyle stroke: He appeared to be effortlessly gliding to glory, but beneath the surface propelling himself forward was becoming almost too much to bear.
He was married to the entertainer Candice Alley, and their twins  a daughter, Charlize, and a son, Jagger  arrived the year after Hackett stopped swimming.
He became a successful entrepreneur and hedge-fund investor, earned a masters degree and did broadcasting work on the side.
At the same time, he said, he was using alcohol and sleeping pills to quell anxiety and depression.
Its hard when youve done something that many people see as extraordinary, but as a person youre not, Hackett said.
Its almost like youre separated from the pack.
Youre having to try to grow as a person and work out who you are in this really difficult set of circumstances, under a microscope.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 2014, his marriage had disintegrated and his substance use was leading to headline-generating behavior, including wandering dazed and barely dressed through a Melbourne hotel lobby.
His family pleaded with him to seek professional help, and Hackett spent a month at the Meadows, the same treatment facility Phelps entered later that year.
But Hackett was not ready then to open up and acknowledge his weaknesses.
He was trying to conquer his anxiety and depression as if they were swimming rivals.
You want to push through and almost win in a way, Hackett said.
When thats how you think, its hard to step back and say: Wait, this isnt about sports or winning and losing.
Its about my life.
After the February episode, Hackett knew he needed more help.
The day after he resurfaced, he contacted Phelps and agreed to fly to the United States.
He also decided that after stopping in Arizona he would enter a recovery center in Malibu, Calif. Phelps drove him the 400 miles to the facility.
Twice since his monthlong treatment, Hackett has traveled to spend time at the Phelpses home.
Michaels been there and he understands, so its almost like you can plug right into that support, Hackett said.
Photo

He and Phelps first crossed paths at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney.
Phelps, then 15, marveled at how big swimming was in Australia and how much attention was paid to Hacketts success.
As Phelpss own fame grew, he gravitated toward Australian swimmers, who could understand the scrutiny he faced better than most of his American teammates.
He and Hackett found that personal relationships, even the simplest ones, could become a minefield for anyone with a measure of fame.
It has been years since either of them has had a chance to make a first impression, because people assume they already know celebrities.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I dont think you change, Hackett said, I think the world around you changes more than anything else.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Hackett and Phelps acquired agents and sponsors who burnished their public images, they became almost passive participants in their development.
You have people telling you what to do, what to say, how to act, where to go  giving you constant advice, Hackett said.
Its almost like you dont have to think for yourself.
You lose a sense of your own identity in all that.
Hackett also felt a piece of himself slip away when his marriage ended and the child custody hearings began.
You go through a situation where you see your kids pretty much every day, the household is busy, its chaotic, and thats what youre used to and you love it, Hackett said.
Then, all of the sudden, I remember moving into this really nice place and sitting on the couch at night and going, This stinks.
You feel like you have everything, but you have nothing.
Phelps, who had been listening intently, let out a deep sigh.
He said he could not imagine being a part-time father to Boomer, now 16 months old, and the child that he and Nicole are expecting early next year.
Ive been thinking what youve gone through, what Tigers gone through, being divorced and not having the freedom to see your children whenever you want, Phelps said.
Its heartbreaking.
Woods, 41, who has been sidelined from golf by a back injury, recently spent time in a clinic, receiving inpatient treatment to help him manage pain medications.
Phelps contacted Woods through a mutual friend, the Golf Channel analyst Notah Begay III, who was Woodss teammate at Stanford.
A recovering alcoholic, Begay had reached out to Phelps around the time he sought help at the Meadows.
Their first phone conversation lasted two hours.
Begay said Phelps was almost uniquely qualified to support Woods.
Michael can provide honest and direct feedback, and thats what athletes of their caliber need the most, Begay said.
Athletes at their level of accomplishment, they have 100 people lined up around the corner trying to sell something to them or do something for them, and its hard to filter out, to decide, who is looking out for their best interests.
Photo

Describing their conversations as on and off, Phelps said he took cues from Woods on how much they would discuss.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its better now, Phelps said, because I feel like theres more of a comfort level.
And while Phelps keeps an eye on others, his wife is helping him find alternative forms of counseling that might accommodate his frequent travels.
Together, Nicole Phelps said, they have discovered groups that offer therapy by video links and even by text or email.
Its more affordable and accessible for more people, she wrote in a text message.
I honestly have personally been encouraging friends and family to utilize the services because of the ease and cost.
A Comfort Zone

Phelps had just finished telling Hackett the story about the boy in California when a diner asked Phelps to record a birthday greeting for her son.
After he obliged, she turned her smartphone toward Hackett, who said, Happy birthday, and gday from Australia.
This sort of attention is what Hackett came here to avoid.
I just feel different  more balanced  when I get out of the fishbowl in Australia, he said.
There are few places where Phelps and Hackett feel more at ease than at Scottsdale National, a golf course contoured from the McDowell Mountains that offers sweeping views of Phoenix and a wellspring of tranquillity.
One morning when they played last month, Phelps and Hackett had the course to themselves, and the only noise competing with the birdsong was the country and hip-hop music emanating from their cart.
Phelps carded an 84, lowering his handicap to single digits.
Hackett, who doesnt play much golf at home, shot 103.
A few days earlier, he broke 100 for the first time.
In a sharply worded response, a lawyer for the nursing home contested the agencys findings, saying that its staff had been constantly monitoring residents and that there was no indication based on actual conditions that a 911 call, or an evacuation, was necessary before residents began to fall ill.
Eight of the residents died that day, either at the home, known as the Rehabilitation Center at Hollywood Hills, or at Memorial Regional Hospital.
More than 100 were taken to Memorial and other hospitals, and many have now been moved to new nursing homes.
Local authorities said that a ninth former resident died on Tuesday, but the medical examiner has not yet determined whether the heat played a role in the death of that resident, Carlos Canal, 93.
According to the agencys order suspending the Centers license, issued on Wednesday, the facilitys medical records were replete with late entries, meaning updates that were supposed to describe medical indicators such as blood pressure and temperature at a certain point in time, but were added later.
The facility also entered late entries into medical records claiming safe temperatures for patients, Mr. Senior said in the statement, while those same patients were across the street dying in the emergency room with temperatures of over 108 degrees Fahrenheit.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In one instance, at 4:42 a.m., a nurse wrote that a 78-year-old residents temperature was 101.6 degrees.
But the resident had arrived at the hospitals emergency room in cardiac arrest 10 minutes earlier, with a temperature that the hospital recorded at 108.3 degrees.
She could not be saved.
Others who died had body temperatures of 109.9, 108.5 and 107.
In another case, which the agency described as very egregious, someone at the nursing home described a 84-year-old patient as resting in bed with breathing that was even and unlabored.
By the time that update was added, the person had already died.
But in a statement, Kirsten K. Ullman, a lawyer for the nursing home, said the late entries into residents medical records were not significant, since workers often wait until the end of their shift to update records.
Since the home was emptied before the end of the early shift on Sept. 13, some entries could not be made until residents had already left, she wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Late entries document care given during the shift, but which was not documented due to circumstances beyond the homes control, Ms. Ullman wrote.
The alarming body temperatures cited by the agency, some of which were taken at the hospital, were much higher than those documented by the nursing home staff while the residents were still there, she wrote.
The caregivers at Hollywood Hills responded to the conditions with which they were faced in real time, she wrote.
It is only based on hindsight of outcome that the reasonable actions taken at the time are being criticized.
The agency had already temporarily stopped the facility from accepting any new patients, but on Wednesday, it moved to close it down entirely.
Rick Scott has also ordered the agency to cut off the homes ability to participate in Medicaid, and the Hollywood Police Department and the Florida Department of Law Enforcement have opened a criminal investigation.
On Tuesday night, the Rehabilitation Center filed a complaint in court against the health care agency with the accusation that two orders from last week that temporarily shut it down were improperly issued and violated its rights.
In its complaint, the facility reiterated what officials at the nursing home have insisted over the past week, and what public records released by the state validate: that the staff there tried to tell state officials and the power company multiple times that they needed help restoring the homes air-conditioning system, which had stopped working after the hurricane knocked out a vital transformer.
Other patients would require a slightly higher or lower concentration to achieve the same effect, but the variations were not large.
That led to their introduction in 1965 of a concept, called the minimum alveolar concentration, or MAC, that quickly became the standard measure of potency for anesthetic gases.
Because powerful anesthetics work at lower concentrations and weaker ones require higher doses, a lower MAC value would indicate a stronger drug.
Anesthesiologists use MAC values when planning doses needed for surgery.
The values are highly consistent from one patient to another and even among animals.
For any given drug, about the same concentration can anesthetize a 200-pound man, a smaller woman, a dog or a rat.
The amount needed to reach that concentration differs depending on the patients size, but the effective concentration itself does not change.
Dr. Shafer said the technique devised by Dr. Eger and his colleagues made the administering of anesthesia far safer and has saved millions of lives.
Photo

In later work, Dr. Eger identified new drugs that could be used as anesthesia, such as isoflurane, sevoflurane and desflurane, which are still the most widely used general anesthetics.
Ted Eger revolutionized modern anesthetic practice, and led the way to the development of the anesthetic gases used tens of millions of times a year, Dr. Michael A. Gropper, the chairman of the department of anesthesia and perioperative care at the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an email.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Edmond I. Eger II was born on Sept. 3, 1930, in Chicago.
(His parents gave him a middle initial but not a middle name.)
His father was an advertising executive, and his mother, the former Miriam Newmann, was a homemaker.
As a boy, Dr. Eger skipped at least one grade, became a whiz at checkers and led the Hyde Park High School checker team to two city championships.
He graduated at 15, but, as a bored and indifferent student, wound up in the bottom 20 percent of the class.
He was soon hired to sell womens shoes, but after only one day on the job he decided he had had enough and resolved to apply for college.
He was accepted at Roosevelt College in Chicago, where he went from not working at all to working his butt off, Dr. Shafer said.
After a year, he transferred to the University of Illinois, where he majored in chemistry with a minor in math.
He went to medical school at Northwestern University.
In 1955, the same year he graduated from Northwestern, he married Dollie Ross, a speech therapist.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1983.
In 1996, he married Dr. Lynn Spitler, an immunologist, who survives him.
Dr. Eger is also survived by three daughters, Cris Cadence Waste, Doreen J. Eger and Renee R. Eger, and a son, Edmond Eger III, all from his first marriage; a half brother, Larry Eger; two stepchildren; seven grandchildren; and six step-grandchildren.
After completing his internship and residency, Dr. Eger served for two years as a captain in the medical corps, based at the Army hospital at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. From 1960 to 2006 he was a faculty member at the University of California, San Francisco.
He was an author of more than 500 scientific articles and an author or editor of seven books.
He received every award known to man in his specialty, Dr. Shafer said.
Dr. Eger spent the last 20 years of his career trying to understand how inhaled anesthetics work.
The drugs and their effects remain a mystery.
The same concentration that knocks out a person will anesthetize a sea slug or an amoeba, and will even paralyze a fern that normally curls up when touched, Dr. Shafer said.
The universality of those reactions suggests that the drugs are tapping into some biological mechanism that evolved eons ago.
Dr. Eger regretted that he had not been able to discover that mechanism, writing in his autobiography, The ah ha!
moment, the thrill of solving the hardest puzzle in all of pharmacology, awaits another investigator.
The bill is structured as a sort of slow-motion repeal of the health laws main coverage programs.
Though the bill establishes the new state block grant program for a decade, all of the programs money expires after 2026.
That makes it different from the Obamacare overhaul bill passed by the House and a previous bill considered by the Senate, which would have made modifications and cuts to those programs, but preserved them in perpetuity.
The expiration of the health laws programs alone would probably mean that about 23 million fewer Americans would have health coverage, if compared with current law, according to an estimate the Congressional Budget Office made in regard to a previous repeal bill.
In the meantime, analysts say, the individual insurance markets could face enormous changes.
The legislation rolls back popular consumer protections in Obamacare, leaving each state to decide what minimum benefits must be covered or if customers with pre-existing illnesses should be protected from higher prices.
Not every state would drop these provisions, but several might.
One of the few Obamacare requirements that would remain is to allow children to stay on their parents insurance policies until age 26.
The budget office has said it does not have time to analyze the full effects of the bill before the Senate hopes to consider it, though it will provide some overall estimates of its effects on the federal deficit.
While a floor vote is not certain yet, Republicans are racing against the clock.
They are considering the bill under special budget rules that allow them to pass it with a simple majority of votes in the Senate.
That opportunity expires when the fiscal year ends at the end of Sept. 30.
The legislation also does little to stabilize the individual market from now until when the states would have to administer new health programs in 2020.
Insurers are sharply raising their prices for 2018 because lawmakers have not committed to funding the so-called cost-sharing subsidies that help insurers reduce deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
The bill does not fix this problem.
The legislation also eliminates the tax penalty that people who refuse coverage face  the individual mandate  which could discourage insurance enrollment among healthier people, who are critical to making the program work.
Insurance companies, some of which are only reluctantly staying in the market, may think twice about whether they need to remain while the alternatives are being worked out.
This mix of policies during the two-year transition period is similar to that imagined in earlier Republican bills.
The budget office said that such an environment would cause insurance prices to spike by 20 percent and about 15 million fewer Americans to have health coverage in 2019.
The block-grant formula would affect who is covered, by shifting money to states with the greatest number of low-income residents and away from states that have tried to provide more of their middle-income citizens with insurance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent analysis from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that, by 2026, blue states with low numbers of uninsured residents, including New York and Massachusetts, would experience substantial reductions in federal funding.
Poorer states with high uninsured rates, like Texas and Mississippi, would see increases.
Many of the states that make out better financially could have obtained more Obamacare funding if they had chosen to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more low-income residents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bills formula shifts around the current pot of money based on how many residents in each state are close to the poverty line, and also seeks to equalize payments, regardless of differences in the price of medical care in different regions.
It redistributes from higher income to lowest income, said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere Health.
It also redistributes among the states.
Like several earlier Republican health bills, this one would also change the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, which even before Obamacares expansion to poor adults in many states covered tens of millions of vulnerable Americans, including poor children, older Americans in nursing homes, adults with disabilities, and many pregnant women.
The program currently pays for 49 percent of all births and 64 percent of all nursing home residents bills.
The Graham-Cassidy bill moves funding for the Medicaid expansion population into the state block grant.
It would also convert the rest of the program from an open-ended commitment of paying a share of those peoples medical bills to a capped allotment for each person every year, set to grow by a fixed amount.
Independent analysts have said that the change would cause substantial shifts in financial responsibility to states, ultimately leading to reductions in benefits or in the number of Americans covered by Medicaid over time.
Most Americans receive insurance through their employers, and they, too, would probably see changes under this bill.
The legislation would eliminate Obamacares penalties for employers that decline to offer their workers affordable coverage.
The changes to benefit rules in some states could, through a complicated interplay of law and regulation, allow insurers to impose annual or lifetime limits on coverage for some people covered under employer plans.
More than half of plans had such limits before they were barred by the Affordable Care Act.
With all these changes in the Cassidy-Graham bill, the states might have considerable difficulty coming up with plans of their own by 2020, when the current system of covering their residents under Medicaid and the health laws insurance market would end.
Youve only got two years to figure all of this out, said Robert Laszewski, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. You need a comprehensive plan to phase Obamacare out to something that replaces it.
Photo

Psychological trauma is associated with an increased risk for lupus, a new study reports.
Lupus is a potentially fatal autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the skin, joints and internal organs.
Its cause is unknown.
Researchers studied 54,763 civilian women enrolled in a larger health study.
They used questionnaires to determine exposure to trauma, including serious car accidents and sexual assault, and examined medical records to find diagnoses of post-traumatic stress disorder.
Over the 24 years of the study, they found 73 cases of lupus.
Compared to women without trauma, women with PTSD were almost three times as likely to have lupus.
Exposure to trauma, even without having symptoms of PTSD, more than doubled the risk of developing the disease.
The study, in Arthritis & Rheumatology, controlled for oral contraceptive use, smoking, body mass index, physical activity, education and other characteristics.
There is a lot of research showing that mental health, stress and trauma affect physical health and serious physical illnesses, like lupus, said the lead author, Andrea Roberts, a research scientist at the Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health.
Things going on in our minds really affect our physical health.
Republican leaders appeared determined to thwart any alternative ahead of a possible showdown vote next week.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, announced Tuesday that he and Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, would not come forward with the limited, bipartisan plan to stabilize 2018 premiums in the individual health insurance market that they had been working toward.
Their bipartisan efforts, which grew out of four days of committee hearings, were overtaken by the resumption of partisan warfare on health care.
We have worked hard and in good faith, said Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate health committee, but have not found the necessary consensus among Republicans and Democrats.
Ms. Murray was more blunt: Republican leaders have decided to freeze this bipartisan approach and are trying to jam through a partisan Trumpcare bill.
The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, accused Republicans of crushing very, very hopeful sprouts of bipartisanship.
But the latest repeal legislation was facing significant opposition.
The American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and AARP, the lobby for older Americans, all urged the Senate to reject the bill.
And 10 of the 12 governors opposing the measure signed a letter urging Senate leaders to scrap it.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would result in millions of Americans losing their health insurance coverage, destabilize health insurance markets, and decrease access to affordable coverage and care, Dr. James L. Madara, the chief executive of the A.M.A., said in a letter to Senate leaders.
Photo

Richard J. Pollack, the president of the hospital association, said the bill would erode key protections for patients and consumers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While the two main insurance associations remained silent on Tuesday as they pondered how they planned to respond to the legislation, Centene, one of the few insurers that has aggressively expanded its presence in the individual market for next year, voiced misgivings.
From a public policy standpoint, it is not a good piece of legislation, Centenes chief executive, Michael F. Neidorff, said in an interview.
He urged lawmakers from both parties to work together to avoid passing a law before understanding its full impact.
States may not be able to plan, given the uncertainty over their funding, he said.
You could end up with 50 different plans, he said.
This is unlike anything I have ever seen, Mr. Neidorff said.
They have to sit back and think through what they are doing.
Within hours after the bipartisan group of governors sent their letter opposing the repeal bill, Senator Cassidy provided a letter from 15 Republican governors supporting the concept of adequately funded block grants to the states.
By Tuesday evening, Ms. Murkowski appeared to be the key vote.
At least two other Republican senators, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Susan Collins of Maine, are likely no votes.
With Democrats united in opposition, Republican leaders cannot afford to lose any other votes.
Vice President Mike Pence met with Senate Republicans at lunch in the Capitol on Tuesday and told them the Trump administration was fully behind the repeal bill, which would send more than $1 trillion to states from 2020 to 2026.
After the lunch, Mr. Graham said, Ive never felt better about where were at.
Mr. Graham said he had spoken to President Trump about the bill five times in the last two days, and said Mr. Trump was focused like a laser on it.
Mr. Graham quoted Speaker Paul D. Ryan as saying that the House would pass the bill if the Senate approved it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would blow up the architecture of the Affordable Care Act, a striking departure from the Alexander-Murray effort to draft a modest bipartisan bill to provide federal funds to insurance companies to reimburse them for reducing out-of-pocket costs for low-income consumers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some conservatives argued that the bipartisan bill would just prop up the health law.
It doesnt have a chance in the House, said Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, who helped write the Graham-Cassidy bill.
Mr. Alexander said the resistance to his bill was formidable.
I know how to get bipartisan results, but Im not a magician, he said.
The battle over the Affordable Care Act  adopted in 2010 without any Republican votes  has once again become an all-consuming political drama on Capitol Hill.
The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and the top Democrat on the panel announced last week that they had reached agreement on a plan to prevent the imminent exhaustion of federal funds for the Childrens Health Insurance Program.
But efforts to translate that agreement into legislation have been at least temporarily derailed by the Republican push for repeal of the Affordable Care Act.
Republicans were trying desperately to round up votes for the Graham-Cassidy bill before the end of next week, when the measure will lose the procedural protection that allows it to pass with a simple majority, rather than the 60 votes that would otherwise be required.
While Republicans like the idea of federalism and block grants, many wanted to know how their states would be affected.
Under the legislation, states with high health care costs  especially if they expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act  would generally lose money, while low-cost states that did not expand Medicaid would gain.
The idea of giving the states more flexibility and authority is a good idea, said Senator Rob Portman of Ohio.
As a Republican, I join my colleagues in thinking that states are the place where many health care decisions are already being made, and can be made more efficiently to cover more people and to lower costs.
But he added, I want to see what the impact is on Ohio.
Ohio did expand Medicaid, and roughly 700,000 people have gained coverage as a result.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Republican governors who signed the letter opposing the latest Republican repeal plan were John R. Kasich of Ohio, Brian Sandoval of Nevada, Charlie Baker of Massachusetts and Phil Scott of Vermont.
Two other Republican governors, Mr. Sununu and Larry Hogan of Maryland, expressed similar concerns in separate statements.
The Graham-Cassidy bill is not a solution that works for Maryland, Mr. Hogan said.
It will cost our state over $2 billion annually while directly jeopardizing the health care of our citizens.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have cited Maryland as a state that, in their view, has been receiving more than its fair share of money under the Affordable Care Act.
Mr. Sununu said he could not support the Graham-Cassidy proposal because New Hampshire could possibly lose over $1 billion in Medicaid funding between 2020 and 2026.
He said such a cost shift would be a particular problem for his state because New Hampshire is proud of its tradition of not having an income tax or sales tax.
Members of the Senate health committee, who celebrated its bipartisan efforts to stabilize insurance markets in the past two weeks, said they were disappointed.
Senator Collins said she hoped the panel would continue its work on a bipartisan measure, which she said had gone extremely well under the leadership of Mr. Alexander and Ms. Murray.
Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said the Graham-Cassidy bill had been moving quietly through Washington, like a snake in the grass, while senators on the health committee were trying to work together across party lines.
If we allow that snake in the grass to inject its venom into people  my analogy for losing your health care coverage  then were not the Senate we should be, Mr. Casey said.
Were not the government that we should be.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Besides creating block grants, the Graham-Cassidy bill would make deep cuts in Medicaid.
It would end the expansion of eligibility under the Affordable Care Act, which has provided Medicaid coverage to 13 million people.
And it would put the entire program, which serves more than 70 million people, on a budget, ending the open-ended entitlement that exists.
States would instead receive a per-beneficiary allotment of federal money.
The following year he created a nonprofit consulting firm that became a line of first defense for companies facing health and safety challenges from the E.P.A.
Mr. Dourson has a popular sideline as a writer of books that combine Bible stories with his views on science.
His series, Evidence of Faith, is an examination of the intersection of evolution and bible history.
At a time when the E.P.A.
is in the early stages of putting in place Congresss 2016 overhaul of the law governing toxic chemicals, Mr. Doursons nomination to become the agencys assistant administrator for chemical safety has alarmed Democrats and some former E.P.A.
officials.
Dr. Doursons consistent endorsement of chemical safety standards that not only match industrys views, but are also significantly less protective than E.P.A.
and other regulators have recommended, raises serious doubts about his ability to lead those efforts, said Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of Delaware, the ranking minority member on the panel that will assess Dr. Doursons qualifications.
This is the first time anyone with such clear and extensive ties to the chemical industry has been picked to regulate that industry.
Neither Mr. Dourson nor the E.P.A.
would comment on the criticisms of his industry ties.
A notice on the E.P.A.s website praises Mr. Doursons achievements in toxicology and the quality of his research.
Trade groups for the $800 billion chemical industry are supportive of the nominee.
CropLife America, which lobbies for purveyors of pesticides, fungicides and rodenticides, called Mr. Dourson a perfect fit.
We welcome Dr. Doursons nomination, CropLife America notes on its website.
His extensive experience in risk assessment and science, both in government and private sector make him a valuable addition to the office.
The confirmation hearing for Mr. Dourson and others had been scheduled for Wednesday, but it has been postponed and a new date has not been set.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming and chairman of the Senate committee that will hold the hearing, defended Mr. Doursons nomination.
Dr. Dourson is an experienced toxicologist who deserves full and fair committee consideration, followed by a Senate vote, Mr. Barrasso said.
That should be the case for all of the nominees for leadership roles at the E.P.A.
The nonprofit consulting firm that Mr. Dourson founded and ran, TERA, became part of the University of Cincinnati in July 2015.
The department changed its name from the TERA Center to the Risk Science Center in January 2017.
The center disclosed that it collected about 30 percent of its funding from for-profit sources in the 2015-16 fiscal year.
Mr. Doursons ethics agreement says that he will not, once confirmed, participate for one year in any particular matter involving specific parties related to University of Cincinnati work he has done.
But Mr. Doursons financial disclosure report  filed after he was nominated  shows no direct payments to him from any chemical company, meaning any company-funded research Mr. Dourson did in the last year would likely have been paid for through the University of Cincinnati or another organization.
As a result, it is unlikely ethics rules would bar him from overseeing issues related to chemicals manufactured by companies he has conducted research for.
Grants given by companies to universities, but not to the scholars themselves, generally do not create conflicts that require individuals to recuse themselves from matters involving the companies, said Walter Shaub, the former head of the federal Office of Government Ethics.
Mr. Doursons firms clients have included the American Chemistry Council, the industrys top lobbying group.
The firm also advised individual companies, makers of flame retardants, compounds that are called chemicals of concern, and pesticides.
In some cases, his firm provided results that suggested the health risk of a certain chemical or product was less than the assessment by the E.P.A.
and other researchers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
PPG Industries, for example, a paint and coatings manufacturer, uses a chemical called 1,4-dioxane, which the E.P.A.
designated a likely carcinogen, in its products.
The substance is also created incidentally in some shampoos, cosmetics and personal care products through chemical reactions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

PPG hired Mr. Doursons group, which proposed establishing a safe level for 1,4-dioxane that would allow 1,000 times more risk than the E.P.As recommended level.
Other clients have included Albemarle, which makes flame retardants; Dow AgroSciences, which makes the pesticide chlorpyrifos; Waste Management; and Monsanto.
He has also helped DuPont defend a chemical called PFOA, used to make nonstick substances, from states, including West Virginia, that sued the company to clean up contaminated water.
Each of the four chemicals has been associated with severe health issues, like cancer, birth defects and developmental problems in children.
Mr. Doursons studies frequently concluded that the risk associated with these substances is much lower or more dubious than what E.P.A.
scientists and independent researchers have found.
The most striking discrepancy between findings by the agency and his firm is likely Mr. Doursons research funded by Dow AgroSciences on the pesticide chlorpyrifos, in which the authors recommended a safe level that was actually 33 times higher than the agencys standard, according to an analysis by Richard Denison, lead senior scientist at the Environmental Defense Fund.
The agency subsequently lowered its standard even more, to a level nearly 6,000 times less than Mr. Doursons, according to Mr. Denisons analysis.
E.P.A.
scientists then recommended that the product be banned for commercial use as a pesticide.
But E.P.A.
Administrator Scott Pruitt overruled a staff recommendation for a ban, after objections were raised by Dow and other industry players.
More recently, Mr. Dourson published a report titled A case study of potential human health impacts from petroleum coke transfer facilities, that was funded by Koch Industries, which has a subsidiary that handles petroleum coke and coal.
The report concluded that human exposures, if any, are well below levels that could be anticipated to produce adverse health effects in the general population.
Adam Finkel, executive director of the Penn Program on Regulation at the University of Pennsylvania Law School, who worked as a partner on a project with Mr. Dourson, said he observed a disturbing pattern.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most of what he has done over time is to rush headlong to exonerate chemicals, Mr. Finkel said, adding that he stopped working with Mr. Dourson based on these concerns.
Pretty much every piece of work hes ever done, it just so happens that when they are finished with it, the risk is smaller than when they started, the doubt is larger, the concern is less.
But Oliver Kroner, now a Cincinnati city environmental official, praised Mr. Dourson, with whom he worked at TERA for nearly 10 years.
I think Mike is widely misunderstood, Mr. Kroner said.
Here in chemical regulation, were faced with a decision of whether we accept all the health science available to us, or if we exclude some science depending on the source.
Mike has worked hard to help strengthen the regulatory environment by improving the science coming out of industry and bringing a collaborative peer review approach to help assess the quality of industry-derived science, Mr. Kroner said.
Three other E.P.A.
nominees will be vetted at the confirmation hearing, one of whom also has spent much of his career defending businesses against the E.P.A.
: William L. Wehrum, named to head the agencys Office of Air and Radiation.
Mr. Wehrum, who was acting assistant administrator for air and radiation from 2005 to 2007, is now a partner in Hunton & Williams, which has a large energy and environmental law practice.
In the past few years, Mr. Wehrum has represented the Rubber Manufacturers Association, the American Petroleum Institute, the American Forest & Paper Association, and electric utilities, among others, against the E.P.A., legal records show.
Mr. Wehrum did not return messages seeking comment.
Liz Bowman, an E.P.A.
spokeswoman, pointed to Mr. Wehrums decades of working for the government and private sector as evidence of his qualifications for the new job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wehrums career includes over 31 years working in the environmental field through engineering, legal practice, and administrative duties, said Ms.
Bowman, who used to work for the American Chemistry Council, in a statement.
This addresses that criticism directly.
But it is a calm environment compared to the marketplaces where individuals shop for coverage under the Affordable Care Act.
While fewer than 20 million Americans buy their own insurance, the tribulations of the individual market have captured most of the publics attention.
The average cost of a benchmark plan in the individual market rose 20 percent this year, according to Kaiser, as insurers tried to stem their losses.
The combination of political uncertainty over the future of the health law and insurer unrest may result in a similar jump in individual premiums for 2018.
Insurers must make their final decisions where to sell and what to charge in the Affordable Care Act marketplaces by the end of the month.
Early results from another employer survey, conducted by Mercer, a benefits consultant, indicate that businesses expected to see health benefit costs increase 4.3 percent for 2018 after making changes like switching insurers or raising plan deductibles.
Our take away from this is that the trend for employers remains stable, and it remains low, said Tracy Watts, a senior partner at Mercer.
As a result, employers may not feel the need to make any drastic changes.
What I see in our renewals is very predictable and very steady, said Lisa Trombley, benefits manager for Kelly Services, the Troy, Mich., staffing company.
Overall, health care costs have increased at historically low rates in recent years, said Matthew Fiedler, a health economist at the Brookings Institution.
Weve got lots of indicators, across a constellation, that the health care trend is pretty low, he said.
While employers credit their efforts to slow down costs, others, including Mr. Fiedler, say some of the changes enacted under the Affordable Care Act have also contributed.
The federal law reduced what Medicare pays for care, which allows private payers to strike better bargains, he said, and the government has been encouraging experiments in how to pay doctors and hospitals in new ways that may reduce spending.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even the deductibles people pay toward their own medical bills, which have gone up steadily in recent years, seem to be holding steady.
Deductibles rose only slightly this year, averaging $1,505 for a single person, according to Kaiser.
While employers have relied on steeper deductibles to lower their own costs, companies are recognizing that they have reached the limits of what they can ask their workers to pay, said Michael Thompson, the chief executive of the National Alliance of Healthcare Purchaser Coalitions, which represents employers.
Were running out of runway to keep cost-shifting to employees, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But people remain confused about how the turmoil in the individual market affects them, even when they get their coverage through an employer, Mr. Altman said.
In a recent Kaiser poll, six out of 10 Americans worried that the higher rates being charged in the A.C.A.
markets would negatively affect them, he said.
The two markets are distinct, and the groups of people being covered are like night and day, Mr. Altman said.
The individual market has a large portion of people who need expensive medical care, which has led to sharply higher prices some areas.
The large employer market can spread the costs of expensive care more easily over the greater numbers of people that work for large companies.
Small businesses, however, cant spread their medical costs over a large work force.
Premiums have gone up double digits up here, said Martin Dole, the controller for Gateway Motors, a car dealership in White River Junction, Vt., which covers 28 people.
The family plan Gateway offers costs more than $700 a month and comes with a deductible of $9,500, which workers hate, he said.
Health care is one of the dealerships largest expenses, Mr. Dole said, and he is concerned that the dealership may not be able to afford to offer coverage in coming years.
Larger companies tend to view health benefits as a key component of compensation and essential to attracting employees.
Companies and their workers also enjoy a generous tax subsidy for employer-sponsored coverage.
While there has been some discussion about reducing or eliminating that subsidy, including as part of the push for a single-payer Medicare-for-all plan that would replace the current system with the one now providing coverage to people 65 and older, there seems to be significant support for maintaining the current system.
Its pretty much business as usual, said Larry Boress, the chief executive of the Midwest Business Group on Health, a regional group of employers.
Companies are holding down costs through a variety of efforts, like offering workplace clinics or more telehealth services so employees do not have to go to the doctor or show up in the emergency room.
Employers will continue to look for ways to reduce what they pay toward their workers health care costs, he said.
Whether the A.C.A.
exists or not, they will clearly do that, he said.
Still, I wondered about those little lies we tell to avoid hurting peoples feelings.
Researchers at the University of California San Diego Emotion Lab are looking at prosocial lies  the white lies we tell to benefit others, like telling an aspiring writer a story is great because you want to be nice and encouraging, when in reality you know it needs work and will meet rejection.
A recent study at the lab suggests that we are more likely to tell a prosocial lie when we feel compassion toward someone, because if you feel bad for someone, the last thing you want to do is hurt him or her with the truth.
These lies feel better in the short term, but they often do more harm than good in the long term.
After all, the brutal truth can be painful, but people need to know it if they are to improve their performance, especially in a work or school situation.
But was brutal truth what I really wanted when it came to my marriage?
My focus on honesty at times did lead to better interactions with my husband.
When the New York Times Magazine article about open marriage came out, for example, it sparked my curiosity.
Since I was keeping an honesty journal, rather than keeping it to myself, as I would have done in the past, my husband and I had an honest discussion about it.
Other times, the compulsion to be honest strained things between us.
That I disagree with some of his parenting techniques doesnt necessarily need to be pointed out every single time.
I came to realize that, within relationships, there is a third category between dishonesty and telling white lies, called not sharing everything.
Over all, I found that I struggled more with the small instances of honesty, rather than the big.
So, when a client accidentally paid me twice for a project  sending a duplicate $1,000 check a week after theyd already paid me  there was no internal debate.
It was $1,000, so obviously, I notified the client.
But when the McDonalds drive-through cashier gave me an extra dollar in change and the line had been SO long and all I wanted was a Diet Coke and my kids were acting crazy in the back seat and why was this stupid McDonalds always so slow anyway?!
it was a different story.
Even though I gave the dollar back, I almost didnt, because an extra dollar was such a small thing and seemed somehow justified.
Had I not been focused on honesty, Im not sure I would have given it back.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
My experience was consistent with what the behavioral economist Dan Ariely wrote about in his 2012 book, The (Honest) Truth About Dishonesty.
His research showed that we fudge the truth by about 10 percent or so.
We cheat when we are fairly certain we can get away with it, but just by a little, and about things we can justify.
We do it more if we see other people doing it.
We do it less if we are reminded to be honest.
My journal pointed these instances out to me rather starkly.
I also quickly came to realize that the Facebook version of Judi Ketteler, whose life was so together and children so well behaved, was a very particular version of me, a notion explored by Seth Stephens-Davidowitz in his book Everybody Lies.
Dr. Davidowitz, a data scientist, tackles the discrepancy between the ideal version of ourselves we present to the world via social media and the often-miserable confessions we make to Google as we search for the things we would never post in a status update.
My social media self wasnt a lie, but if I was going to focus on truly honest behavior, it seemed better not to indulge too much  hence, I pulled way back from posting on Facebook.
Even though honesty felt like a struggle, I started to like how it felt.
Research from the University of Notre Dame has shown that when people consciously stopped telling lies, including white lies, for 10 weeks, they had fewer physical ailments (like headaches) and fewer mental health complaints (like symptoms of depression) than a control group that did not focus on honesty.
When people were more honest, they also tended to feel better about their relationships and social interactions, the researchers found.
This rang true for me, mostly because I felt better about myself.
I like the saying, Everybody wants the truth, but nobody wants to be honest.
I didnt always want to be honest.
But I wanted the truth, and this focus on honesty helped me feel that I was doing my part.
The bottom line is that focusing on honesty is a way to actively engage with the world, versus passively complaining about it.
It might even make you feel as if you have gold in your brain.
Photo

A new study suggests that the availability of cheaper, off-brand cigarettes is associated with an increase in infant mortality.
Researchers writing in JAMA Pediatrics studied the link between cigarette prices and infant mortality in 23 European countries from 2004 through 2014.
During this time, there were more than 53 million live births.
After controlling for other factors, they found that a $1.18 increase in average price per pack was associated with a decline of 0.23 deaths per 1,000 babies in the first year of life and 0.16 deaths per 1,000 babies in the second year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But when a cheap enough brand was available, the number of infant deaths increased.
A 10 percent difference between the median price and the price of an off-brand bargain pack was associated with an increase of .07 deaths per 1,000 live births, the researchers found.
But the bill faces substantial challenges, both political and procedural.
Here are three reasons the effort may not succeed  and one very important reason it might.
Photo

1) Rand Paul is a hard no, which makes the math difficult.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has been making a big point of how he dislikes this bill and wont vote for it.
He said so in a series of tweets on Monday.
Then he held a news conference, saying he was immovable.
Without his vote, Senate leadership can afford to lose only one more.
Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered mixed messages on the bill, and suggested on Monday that he was not yet endorsing the bill but might eventually.
So far, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have voted against every previous repeal attempt.
They even voted against opening debate on the process that permitted consideration of the Graham-Cassidy option.
If Mr. Paul holds firm, one of those two will need to change her mind.
Its possible that Mr. Paul will switch sides, but hes made it hard for himself to do so.
Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins have said nothing about their intentions.
But both raised objections about cuts to Medicaid in the earlier bill, and the new bill contains similar reductions.
The bills funding formula also appears to be unkind to both Alaska and Maine.
2) Theres a huge redistribution of money between states in the bills formula.
Losers include states with must-get senators.
The legislation sets up a complex formula for who gets what chunk of federal health care spending.
The formula is devised to equalize spending among states.
Currently, some states spend much more on Medicaid and the exchanges than others, either because they cover more people or because their systems are more generous or expensive.
That redistribution of money means that some states would come out as big winners, but others would absorb big reductions.
Mr. Cassidy has pointed out that more than a third of Affordable Care Act spending goes to four states: California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland.
Thats roughly true.
These are populous states that expanded their Medicaid programs and tend to have costly health care systems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its not just big, blue states that would lose out.
According to estimates from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank, Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, for example, would end up with less money by the end of a decade.
Those states all contain Republican senators who have expressed some unease with earlier versions of Obamacare repeal, and they might wish to keep the bill off the floor to avoid a tough vote that would pit their broad political commitments to repeal against the more parochial concerns of their constituents.
(Similar concerns might also crop up in the House, where a final vote would eventually need to be held.)
Over the long term, every state would lose money under the proposal.
The big block grants would expire altogether in 2027.
3) The timing is tight, and the bill still has a long way to go, leaving little room for error.
Republicans are trying to pass the bill using a special budget procedure called reconciliation.
That process allows them to pass the bill without needing any Democratic support, but it comes with a number of rules.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the reconciliation process, the bill requires an estimate of costs from the Congressional Budget Office.
The office indicated that it would offer an initial assessment by early next week, but could not provide detailed estimates about what would happen to insurance coverage or premiums for several weeks.
The score could discourage some senators from supporting the bill; an incomplete assessment might discourage others.
The bill will also need to be reviewed by the Senates parliamentarian to ensure that its provisions adhere to rules for the budget process.
Some provisions, including restrictions on funding for abortion providers and the new option of work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries, could run afoul of the rules and be scrubbed out in the Byrd Bath.
Any funding formula changes made to the bill to please reluctant senators could slow things down.
The parliamentarian has said that the Senate process needs to be wrapped up by the end of the month.
That means that the bill needs a score, a Byrd Bath rules review and a vote in the Senate by the end of Saturday, Sept. 30.
Then the legislation would need to go back to the House, where, after midnight of that day, it could not be changed again, only voted up or down.
1) But Obamacare repeal is a core promise for Republicans.
Republicans have been running on a promise to repeal Obamacare since 2010, and this bill appears to be their last chance to achieve that goal in the foreseeable future.
Though they could initiate a new budget process to try again with health care, the president and congressional leadership want to use the process instead to pass tax reform.
Many members of Congress (and their staffs) are weary of the recent health care fight, which has been bruising and has yielded little political upside.
But even for lawmakers with doubts about this particular piece of legislation, the prospect of a win on an issue dear to their base  not to mention getting President Trump to stop jeering that they are wasting time and couldnt get it done  could be a powerful motivating force.
At 61, he could speak with the avuncular magniloquence of a professor emeritus; instead, he layers on supporting data like a star pupil seeking an A-plus.
He rebuts skeptical inquiries and insists on teaching from his own syllabus  and on flicking his own birch switch.
The report card will be issued annually, Mr. Gates said.
He gave himself only a C+ on the first draft, promising sharper analytics in the future.
He isnt actually handing out grades to the worlds health authorities  but is sending them home with a note for mom.
Your kid has real potential but is becoming a discipline problem.
In some areas, like infant mortality, he considers the progress made pretty miraculous.
In 1990, more than 11 million children died before their fifth birthday; now, fewer than 6 million do.
AIDS deaths have plummeted since 2004, and malaria deaths since 2005.
Rates of childhood stunting, mothers dying in childbirth, and the miseries wrought by rare tropical diseases all have gone steadily down.
In poor countries, vaccine use is way up, though only about 75 percent of children get all the shots they need.
More people have toilets these days.
Progress in other areas has been slower.
Smoking is down, but tobacco companies are fighting back.
Contraceptive availability is up, but almost half the women who want birth control still lack it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Access to basic health care is up, according to the new report.
But the gap between rich and poor countries remains vast, because too much money goes to top hospitals instead of rural clinics.
One key finding: Most of the progress was not bought by donors, but came organically as hundreds of millions of people scrambled out of the most abject tiers of penury.
In 1990, 35 percent of the world lived below the international poverty line (currently $1.90 a day); now, only 9 percent do.
Most of the great leap upward was in just two economic powerhouses: China and India.
The reports scarier themes lie in its projections for the next 15 years.
Assuming economic progress continues, improvements in most health categories will churn dutifully on, or at worst plateau.
But since the 2008 economic crisis, donors have been losing their will to give.
If that persists, the report says, chaos threatens.
H.I.V.
infections could double, returning to levels not seen since the 1990s.
And malaria could climb back to the peak hit in 2005.
H.I.V.
and malaria are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in funding because they are concentrated in Africa, where economic progress has been slower than in Asia or Latin America and where birthrates remain high, producing a big pool of potential victims each year.
Malaria has a history of rebounding as soon as pressure is eased; both the mosquitoes and the parasites quickly evolve resistance genes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The worlds birthrate is now peaking  probably forever  at about 134 million babies a year.
But its mind-blowing how much the shift in where kids are being born makes things hard for us, Mr. Gates said.
Keeping infants alive gets tougher when they are born in lands with civil wars, dirt roads and healers who reject Western medicine.
Surprisingly, the new report was not a reaction to Mr. Trumps threats to slash the foreign aid budget by 32 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

According to Dr. Christopher J.L.
Murray, director of the University of Washingtons Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which gathered the data, it was initiated three years ago because Mr. Gates feared the world was losing its focus on health.
Goalkeepers refers to a metric that the world ignores but the Gateses do not: the targets periodically set by the United Nations, namely the 2000 Millennium Development Goals and the 2015 Sustainable Development Goals.
The first sharply emphasized poverty and health.
But the latter comprise 169 targets for everything from reducing overfishing to bringing clean energy and decent jobs for all  they have an I-want-a-pony-too air about them.
The world prefers simple goals, like declaring war on smallpox.
But war talk has stung Mr. Gates.
Calls for an AIDS-free generation  all the rage six years ago  were premature, he said, and he was embarrassed by claims that malaria could be eliminated by 2015.
He prefers Microsoft-type thinking to set realistic goals.
People expect a certain degree of honesty, he said.
They want to know, do Bill and Melinda track this stuff?
Essentially, he is tracking the worlds pursuit of his own goals as he helps it reach them.
In early interviews, Mr. Gates refrained from criticizing Mr. Trump but gave the clear impression that he believed Congress would ignore most of the presidents proposed cuts.
Congress appears to be doing just that.
To hear Mr. Gates tell it, even the staunchest backers of an America First ideology, which he called selfish, succumb to his fusillades of data.
Before Stephen K. Bannon, the presidents chief strategist, resigned, Mr. Gates met him in the White House.
He said, Africa has always been a mess, Mr. Gates said.
I went through the numbers on its progress with him.
He was impressed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The new reports weakness is that it cannot, for example, foretell how many more Ugandans would die of AIDS if American donations dropped 20 percent, in the way that the Congressional Budget Office can calculate how many Americans will lose insurance under a particular health care bill.
There are too many unpredictables in global health.
A country would not just brutally take 20 percent of its H.I.V.
patients off treatment, Mr. Gates noted.
It might cut its military budget; it might try to stretch supplies of the drugs it got, triggering shortages.
Buried in the graphics-heavy report are some fun anecdotes that show how ingenuity can be just as important in the field as money.
In Ethiopia, for example, pregnant women were given a special stretcher to help them reach birth clinics; they had feared regular stretchers because villagers carried away on them usually died.
And an imam in Senegal described how he got other imams to accept birth control: by citing a saying from the Prophet Muhammad implying that children should be born about two years apart.
I think the odds have improved, said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership.
I just told Bill Cassidy hes kind of the grave robber.
This thing was six feet under, and I think hes revived it.
It is still too early for Republican leaders to celebrate.
Mr. McCain said he would pay attention to the views of his governor, but he also insisted that Republicans should hold hearings and consider amendments, rather than ramming the bill through the Senate.
Later Monday, the Senate Finance Committee announced it would hold a hearing on the Graham-Cassidy bill early next week.
The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee also plans a hearing.
Im not interested in only having an up-or-down vote on whats one-fifth of the gross national product, Mr. McCain said.
Ms. Collins was similarly skeptical.
Im concerned about what the effect would be on coverage; on Medicaid spending in my state; on the fundamental changes in Medicaid that would be made without the Senate holding a single hearing to evaluate them; and also on what the effect would be on premiums, particularly for older Americans between 50 and 64, she said.
In the latest fight, unlike the July showdown, repeal advocates must overcome one no vote from the right: Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, who said the new bill would leave too much of the Affordable Care Act in place.
This bill keeps 90 percent of the spending of Obamacare and reshuffles it, Mr. Paul said on Monday.
Really, when you look at how it reshuffles it, it does it just to take money from the Democrat states and give it to Republican states.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ms. Murkowski said she was still considering her vote.
If the Senate does not vote by the end of next week, it will become nearly impossible to repeal the health law because the drive to kill the Affordable Care Act will lose the procedural protections that allow it to pass the Senate with a simple majority, rather than the 60 votes that would otherwise be needed.
Democrats sounded the alarm Monday, and the Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, geared up for an all-out effort to block the Graham-Cassidy bill, which has support from President Trump.
After a few weeks of lying dormant, Trumpcare is back, and its meaner than ever, Mr. Schumer said, adding: This is so outrageous and so harmful that were going to look at every possible way to slow the bill down.
Democrats said the Senate should not vote on the bill before receiving a full analysis from the Congressional Budget Office.
The budget office said it was aiming to provide a preliminary fiscal analysis by early next week, but would not have estimates of the bills effects on insurance coverage and premiums for at least several weeks.
Mr. Schumer said it would be much better for Congress to advance a bipartisan bill being drafted by Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington.
That bill would provide money to insurers to compensate them for reducing out-of-pocket costs for low-income people.
Without those payments, insurers say, they will sharply increase premiums or withdraw from additional markets next year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The House passed an Affordable Care Act repeal in early May, by a vote of 217-213.
But the movement appeared to reach a dead end in July, when multiple versions of repeal legislation failed to gain even a simple majority in the Senate.
Refusing to accept defeat, Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy took another tack.
The Graham-Cassidy bill has two major elements, one that is new and one that was found in many other Republican repeal bills this year.
The new element is a block grant.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy would give each state a fixed amount of federal money for health care and health insurance each year from 2020 to 2026.
The allotments total $1.2 trillion over the seven years.
That is slightly less than what the federal government is expected to spend under the Affordable Care Act on the expansion of Medicaid, on premium tax credits and on the cost-sharing reduction payments to insurers on behalf of low-income consumers.
States would have sweeping new discretion over how to use the money, and they could receive federal block grant funds without putting up state money.
Photo

In addition, the Graham-Cassidy bill would make deep cuts in Medicaid.
It would end the expansion of eligibility under the Affordable Care Act, which has extended coverage to 13 million people.
And it would put the entire program, which serves more than 70 million people, on a budget, ending the open-ended entitlement that now exists.
States would receive a per-beneficiary allotment of federal money.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that 15 million fewer people would have Medicaid as a result of similar proposals in other Republican bills.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy would distribute federal block grant funds to the states using a complex formula that, like any such formula, creates winners and losers.
It is difficult for any state to be sure how much it would receive.
The authors of the bill say they intend to reduce expected federal payments to high-cost states like Massachusetts and increase federal payments to states that have not expanded Medicaid.
Right now, 37 percent of the revenue from the Affordable Care Act goes to Americans in four states  California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland, Mr. Cassidy said.
That is frankly not fair.
Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy said that their bill would also enhance the ability of states to waive Obamacare regulations.
Insurers would still have to offer insurance to anyone who applied, but states could obtain federal waivers allowing insurers to charge higher premiums to sick people or to omit some of the benefits they are now required to provide, like maternity care, mental health care or treatment for drug addiction.
Coverage, while theoretically available, could become unaffordable for some people with costly conditions like cancer or AIDS, health policy experts say.
Less-healthy people would face extremely high premiums in states that obtained waivers involving both benefits and premiums, the Congressional Budget Office said in analyzing a similar provision of the bill passed by the House.
Mr. Cassidy played down that concern.
Under the Graham-Cassidy bill, he noted, a state seeking a waiver would have to describe how it intends to maintain access to adequate and affordable health insurance coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions.
But critics have taken notice.
Sixteen groups representing patients and heath care providers came out Monday in opposition to the bill.
Among those who issued a joint statement opposing it were the American Heart Association, the American Diabetes Association, the March of Dimes and the lobbying arm of the American Cancer Society.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the proposal just repackages the problematic provisions of the Better Care Reconciliation Act, which the Senate rejected in July, the groups said.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would eliminate the requirement for most Americans to have health insurance and for larger employers to offer it to employees.
Like prior Republican bills, it would also cut off federal funds for Planned Parenthood for a year  a provision opposed by Ms. Collins and Ms. Murkowski.
The outlook for the Senate bill in the House is unclear.
Some Republicans from states that lose money under the block grant could balk.
But House Republicans would be under immense pressure to support the bill and fulfill their longtime promise to dismantle the law, which was passed seven years ago.
However, they also found major flaws in the reporting of findings.
People were consistently biased in interpreting their results in favor of a relationship between skipping breakfast and obesity.
They improperly used causal language to describe their results.
They misleadingly cited others results.
And they also improperly used causal language in citing others results.
People believe, and want you to believe, that skipping breakfast is bad.
Good reviews of all the observational research note the methodological flaws in this domain, as well as the problems of combining the results of publication-bias-influenced studies into a meta-analysis.
The associations should be viewed with skepticism and confirmed with prospective trials.
Few randomized controlled trials exist.
Those that do, although methodologically weak like most nutrition studies, dont support the necessity of breakfast.
Further confusing the field is a 2014 study (with more financial conflicts of interest than I thought possible) that found that getting breakfast skippers to eat breakfast, and getting breakfast eaters to skip breakfast, made no difference with respect to weight loss.
But a 1992 trial that did the same thing found that both groups lost weight.
A balanced perspective would acknowledge that we have no idea whats going on.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Many of the studies are funded by the food industry, which has a clear bias.
Kellogg funded a highly cited article that found that cereal for breakfast is associated with being thinner.
The Quaker Oats Center of Excellence (part of PepsiCo) financed a trial regarding consumption of oatmeal or frosted cornflakes (if you eat it in a highly controlled setting each weekday for four weeks), and found that only the no-breakfast group, which lost weight, experienced an increase in cholesterol.
Many studies focus on children and argue that kids who eat breakfast are also thinner, but this research suffers from the same flaws that the research in adults does.
What about the argument that children who eat breakfast behave and perform better in school?
Systematic reviews find that this is often the case.
But you have to consider that much of the research is looking at the impact of school breakfast programs.
One of the reasons that breakfast seems to improve childrens learning and progress is that, unfortunately, too many dont get enough to eat.
Hunger affects almost one in seven households in America, or about 15 million children.
Many more children get school lunches than school breakfasts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its not hard to imagine that children who are hungry will do better if they are nourished.
This isnt the same, though, as testing whether children who are already well nourished and dont want breakfast should be forced to eat it.
It has been found that children who skip breakfast are more likely to be overweight than children who eat two breakfasts.
But that seems to be because children who want more breakfasts are going hungry at home.
No child who is hungry should be deprived of breakfast.
Thats different than saying that eating breakfast helps you to lose weight.
The bottom line is that the evidence for the importance of breakfast is something of a mess.
If youre hungry, eat it.
But dont feel bad if youd rather skip it, and dont listen to those who lecture you.
Breakfast has no mystical powers.
Photo

You may know theres added sugar in your Coke or cookies.
But did you know that its in your salad dressing, pasta sauce and bread?
The Food and Drug Administration came out Friday with its new template for nutrition labels.
One big change was the addition of a line for added sugar, to be placed below a line for total sugar.
The change is designed to distinguish between sugars that are naturally occurring in a food  like the milk sugar in a plain yogurt  and the sugars that food manufacturers include later to boost flavors  like the evaporated cane juice in a Chobani Kids strawberry yogurt.
A team of researchers at the University of North Carolina conducted a detailed survey of the packaged foods and drinks that are purchased in American grocery stores and found that 60 percent of them include some form of added sugar.
When they looked at every individual processed food in the store, 68 percent had added sugar.
Some of those products are more obvious sugary foods, but not all.
The list includes many sauces, soups, fruit juices and even meat products.
You might think its easy to figure out whether the food manufacturer added sugar to your food, but it isnt always so.
While some foods include sugar in their ingredients, many use different words for products that are nutritionally similar.
Most of us have heard of high-fructose corn syrup, a sugar made from processing corn.
But there are also things like the evaporated cane juice in the yogurt, and rice syrup and flo-malt, which are less obvious and amount to the same thing.
Words That Really Just Mean Added Sugar agave juice

agave nectar

agave sap

agave syrup

beet sugar

brown rice syrup

brown sugar

cane juice

cane sugar

cane syrup

clintose

confectioners powdered sugar

confectioners sugar

corn glucose syrup

corn sweet

corn sweetener

corn syrup

date sugar

dextrose

drimol

dri mol

dri-mol

drisweet

dri sweet

dri-sweet

dried raisin sweetener

edible lactose

flo malt

flo-malt

flomalt

fructose

fructose sweetener

glaze and icing sugar

glaze icing sugar

golden syrup

gomme

granular sweetener

granulated sugar

hi-fructose corn syrup

high fructose corn syrup

honey

honibake

honi bake

honi-bake

honi flake

honi-flake

invert sugar

inverted sugar

isoglucose

isomaltulose

kona ame

kona-ame

lactose

liquid sweetener

malt

malt sweetener

malt syrup

maltose

maple

maple sugar

maple syrup

mizu ame

mizu-ame

mizuame

molasses

nulomoline

powdered sugar

rice syrup

sorghum

sorghum syrup

starch sweetener

sucanat

sucrose

sucrovert

sugar beet

sugar invert

sweet n neat

table sugar

treacle

trehalose

tru sweet

turbinado sugar

versatose

Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina, and one of the papers authors, said that the wide variety of sugars is not always meant to confound consumers.
Instead, he said, the many sugar types are chosen by food scientists to give their products the best flavor and texture.
Some sugars are better for baked goods, while others are better in soft drinks.
Some are also cheaper than others.
Sugar tariffs and import laws make it expensive to bring in too much foreign sugar.
But not all of the sugar formulations count toward the laws quotas.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres also the matter of fruit juice concentrates, which are juices that have been stripped of nearly everything but sugar and evaporated.
A lot of seemingly natural foods include ingredients like apple juice concentrate.
Thats sugar.
That will be a lot clearer when the labels are updated.
Mrs. Clintons framing of the issue as she campaigns in the Pennsylvania primary echoes that of Mayor Jim Kenney of Philadelphia, who has emphasized the soda tax as a way of funding education.
Mr. Kenney talks about the tax not as a way to drive down soda drinking, but as one to help fight poverty in his city.
In truth, it would probably do some of both.
Higher soda prices, the likely result of such a tax, would discourage people from buying as much soda.
Public health reformers think such a function of the tax is desirable, since soda consumption has been linked to obesity, diabetes and tooth decay.
Photo

But theres another way to view soda taxes: as measures that hit the poor harder.
Lower-income Philadelphians, like other lower-income Americans, tend to drink more soda than their richer neighbors.
That means that they may get stuck paying a disproportionate share of the bill.
Making sure that every family has high-quality, affordable preschool and child care is a vision that I strongly share, Mr. Sanders said, in a written statement.
On the other hand, I do not support paying for this proposal through a regressive tax on soda that will significantly increase taxes on low-income and middle-class Americans.
At a time of massive income and wealth inequality, it should be the people on top who see an increase in their taxes, not low-income and working people.
Over the weekend, Mr. Sanders continued to express opposition to the tax, at campaign events and on Meet the Press.
The proposed Philadelphia tax would be 3 cents for every ounce of sugary drink sold by distributors, making it the highest soda tax proposed anywhere in the country.
That means a tax of $4.32 on a 12-pack of soda, which typically costs between $3 and $6 at the grocery store.
It would come to 60 cents of tax on a 20-ounce bottle, which usually retails for about $2.
Its not yet clear whether distributors will absorb some of that tax or simply pass all of it on to consumers, but the city budget department expects big price increases in retail stores.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Sanders also says Mrs. Clintons support violates her pledge not to raise taxes on those earning less than $250,000.
Mr. Sanderss argument is in line with that of many soda tax opponents.
And theres most likely some truth to it.
Tobacco taxes, in many ways the model for soda taxes, have tended to fall largely on low-income people, who remain more likely to smoke.
But tobacco is highly addictive.
In Mexico, where a big, national soda tax went into effect in 2014, soda drinking declined the fastest among the poor, who felt the taxs effects in their budgets most acutely.
Consumption among the poorest Mexicans fell by 17 percent by the end of the year, compared with 12 percent in the population nationwide.
As Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina puts it: The rich paid the tax, and the poor reduced their soda drinking.
If something like that happens in Philadelphia, the poor may suffer in the form of less choice or enjoyment, but they may not bear the brunt of funding city preschool.
Republicans appear to be nearly united in their opposition to the measure, both as a tax increase and a nanny state intrusion on personal choice.
Several prominent Republicans cheered Mr. Sanderss anti-tax stance, including Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, and an influential anti-tax advocate.
But conservative opposition to soda taxes is not true world over.
In Britain, the Conservative government just proposed a hefty soda tax, which is expected to become law.
The Minnesota Coronary Experiment was a well-designed study that was conducted in one nursing home and six state mental hospitals from 1968 to 1973.
More than 9,400 men and women, ages 20 to 97, participated.
Data on serum cholesterol were available on more than 2,300 participants who were on the study diets for more than a year.
At baseline, participants were getting about 18.5 percent of their calories from saturated fat, and about 3.8 percent from unsaturated fats.
The intervention diet was considered a more heart healthy one.
It encouraged a reduction in the amount of calories from saturated fats (like animal fats and butter) and more from unsaturated fats, particularly linoleic acids (like corn oil).
The intervention diet lowered the percent of calories from saturated fats to 9.2 percent, and raised the percent from unsaturated fats to 13.2 percent.
The average follow-up for these participants was just under three years.
In that time, the total serum cholesterol dropped significantly more in those on the intervention diet (-31.2 mg/dL) than in those on the control diet (-5 mg/dL).
There was, however, no decreased risk of death.
If anything, there seemed to be an increased mortality rate in those on the heart healthy diet, particularly among those 65 years and older.
More concerning, those who had the greater reduction in serum cholesterol had a higher rate of death.
A 30mg/dL decrease in serum cholesterol was associated with a 22 percent increase in the risk of death from any cause, even after adjusting for baseline cholesterol, age, sex, adherence to the diet, body mass and blood pressure.
Of course, this is only one study.
It involved only institutionalized patients.
Only about a quarter of the participants followed the diet for more than a year.
The diets dont necessarily look like what people really ate, then or now.
But this is still a large, randomized controlled trial, and its hard to imagine we wouldnt at least discuss it widely.
Moreover, the researchers conducted a meta-analysis of all studies that looked at this question.
Analyzed together, they still found that more people died on the linoleic-acid-rich diets, although the results were not statistically significant.
Even in a sensitivity analysis, which included more studies, no mortality benefit could be found with a diet lower in saturated fats.
Its important to note that other meta-analyses both support and dispute this.
A 2010 study argued that substituting unsaturated fats for saturated fats would reduce the rates of coronary heart disease.
So did a 2015 Cochrane review.
A 2014 study in Annals of Internal Medicine, though, showed the opposite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Peoples reactions to this news have been much as youd expect.
Supporters of a diet low in saturated fat have called the new study an interesting historical footnote that has no relevance to current dietary recommendations.
Others have said that if this research had been published when the study was over, it might have changed the trajectory of diet-heart research and recommendations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This isnt the first time that data from long ago have run against current recommendations.
In 2013, an analysis was published of recovered data from the Sydney Diet Heart Study, a randomized controlled trial of a similar nature performed in men with a recent heart attack or angina.
Although the study was done from 1966 to 1973, results werent available publicly until three years ago.
It, too, found that a diet higher in unsaturated fats led to a higher rate of death from heart disease.
Why wasnt this research published decades ago?
Its possible that modern computer technology allows us to do analyses that couldnt be performed then.
Its possible that researchers tried, but were unable to get the results published.
But its also possible that these results were marginalized because they didnt fit with what was considered to be truth at the time.
The two principal investigators on the Minnesota study were Ivan Frantz and Ancel Keys, the latter of whom may be the most influential scientist in promoting saturated fat as the enemy of heart health.
(Mr. Keys died in 2004.)
Im not suggesting anything sinister.
Im sure that both these scientists absolutely believed that their prior epidemiologic work established that diets lower in saturated fat led to lower cholesterol levels and better health.
Research consistently confirmed the former.
When that lower cholesterol didnt translate into actual outcomes like lower mortality, though, they must have been baffled.
Like others today, they may have been able to rationalize the result away and decide that it has no relevance.
Unfortunately, other, similar controlled trials seem to support the notion that the case against saturated fat isnt as robust as many think.
We all must be concerned about publication bias, which occurs when results of published studies are systematically different from results of unpublished studies.
Research has shown that studies with statistically significant results are more likely to be published than those without.
Studies with a low-priority topic or finding may be less likely to be published.
One of the reasons that epidemiologic evidence often leads us to conclusions that cant be supported is likely publication bias.
Studies that find significant associations between foods (like meat) and scary findings (like cancer) are more likely to be published than those that dont find those associations.
When controlled trials are finally done, though, the scary results often cant be replicated.
But the most common reason research isnt published is because researchers dont write it up and submit it.
That could be because they think it wont be accepted.
It could also be because they dont believe the results.
In the charged environment of nutrition research, when peoples careers are built on certain hypotheses, its hard not to imagine our biases creeping into play.
Unfortunately, the health of Americans and others is at stake.
Should we be eating more polyunsaturated fats?
Should we be avoiding saturated fats?
The honest answer is: I dont know.
Given my review of the evidence, I stand by my previous recommendations, which essentially focus more on foods and less on nutrients.
I think the state of nutrition research in general is shockingly flawed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its hard enough to debate the data we can see.
Knowing theres probably data out there that people havent shared makes everything much, much harder.
Photo

Two years ago, Kristi Wood was tired and achy and could not think clearly, and she had no idea why.
I was in a fog and feeling awful, said Ms. Wood, 49, who lives in Seattle and is an owner of a hiking supply company.
Ms. Wood had her blood tested by a consumer service called InsideTracker, which analyzes 30 hormones and biomarkers, such as vitamin levels, cholesterol and inflammation.
After the service told Ms. Wood she had excessive levels of vitamin D, she cut back on a supplement she had been using and said she almost immediately felt better.
Now she has her blood drawn and tested by InsideTracker every four months to check everything from her blood sugar to her B12 levels which, she said, allows me to be proactive about her health.
The services typically send their customers to a nearby clinic where they can have a vial of their blood drawn and sent for analyses.
But InsideTracker also offers customers the option to have nurses show up at their home and draw blood.
(Such services are different from another blood testing company that has been much in the news, Theranos, which aims to provide laboratory test results from a single finger prick.)
Home testing services like InsideTracker say they are empowering consumers, allowing them to spot metabolic red flags before they progress to disease.
But critics say the services often lack proper medical oversight and convince healthy people that theyre sick, leading to unnecessary testing and treatment.
Those concerns have not stopped people from seeking home testing.
The market for direct-to-consumer laboratory tests was valued at $131 million last year, up from $15 million in 2010,according to Kalorama Information, a pharmaceutical-industry research firm.
In December, the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, accused two companies, DirectLabs and LabCorp, of violating a state law that requires laboratory tests to be carried out at the request of licensed medical practitioners.
DirectLabs had sold hundreds of health tests to consumers, ranging from checks for heavy metals and vitamins to screening for parasites and disease.
But Mr. Schneiderman said the person fulfilling the medical practitioner role was actually a chiropractor who had never met, spoken to or followed up with any patients.
DirectLabs did not respond to a request for comment.
DirectLabs and LabCorp agreed to pay fines, and DirectLabs ceased operating in New York.
In a statement, Mr. Schneiderman said that allowing consumers to be tested for serious medical conditions without consulting a physician put their health in jeopardy.
Advocates of home testing, however, say such cases do not reflect industry practices.
InsideTracker and another leading company, WellnessFX, said they worked with doctors who reviewed all test results.
Paul Jacobson, the chief executive of WellnessFX, based in San Francisco, said the company complied with all regulations and offered customers the option of consulting with a doctor, nutritionist or registered dietitian to discuss their results.
WellnessFX sells packages ranging from $78 to $988, offering analyses of 25 to 88 blood biomarkers, including vitamins, lipids, cardiovascular markers and thyroid and reproductive hormones.
Depending on the results, the company also suggests supplements, foods and exercise.
You need to offer solutions to people; otherwise, youre just giving them meaningless information, Mr. Jacobson said.
Tara Boening, the dietitian for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association, said the team started using InsideTracker this season.
The players look at their reports (deficiencies are highlighted in red), which include suggested corrective actions such as eating more red meat and leafy greens if they are low in iron.
The players have been really receptive to the information, Ms. Boening said.
But some doctors say that there is no evidence that such monitoring makes a meaningful improvement in health.
Dr. Pieter Cohen, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and an internist at Cambridge Health Alliance, cautioned that the levels of vitamin D and other biomarkers that were optimal for one person might be very different from what is optimal for another person.
He said InsideTrackers lab reports, for example, classified vitamin D levels below 30 nanograms per milliliter as low  even though a level above 20 is perfectly normal and adequate for most people.
Dr. Cohen said his major concern with direct-to-consumer blood tests was that they screened for so many biomarkers and created seemingly arbitrary ranges for what is considered normal.
Then they give people advice that they already know they should be following.
The best-case scenario here is you lose your money and then youre reminded to get more sleep and to eat more fruits, vegetables and fish, he said.
The worst-case scenario is that you end up getting alarmed by supposedly abnormal results that are actually completely normal for you.
InsideTracker was founded by Gil Blander, a biochemist who did postgraduate research on aging at M.I.T.
He said the idea behind InsideTracker was analogous to routine maintenance for cars.
We decided, lets try to do that for humans, Dr. Blander said.
We can help you find a small issue today that might be a big problem in the future.
Some, like Joseph Roberts, say the services are life-changing.
Four years ago, Mr. Roberts, a former Army Ranger and a retired master sergeant, was plagued by fatigue, depression and weight gain despite frequent exercise.
Mr. Roberts, then 39, said doctors told him his symptoms were a normal part of aging.
Eventually, he decided to have his blood tested with InsideTracker, and the results surprised him, he said.
He was told he had low testosterone and vitamin D, as well as excessive levels of vitamin B12.
Mr. Roberts cut back on daily energy drinks, which are loaded with B12.
He also saw a doctor to discuss his testosterone levels.
He learned his low levels were linked to a brain injury he had sustained as a result of a roadside bomb explosion in Iraq in 2003.
He began testosterone-replacement therapy and now regularly checks in with a doctor.
He also has his blood tested with InsideTracker every four months.
Ive had a huge improvement in my quality of life, he said.
Its money well spent.
For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

Hard Cases Dr. Abigail Zuger on the everyday ethical issues doctors face.
The minute I got on that bus, I knew I was in trouble.
The driver sat at the stop just long enough to miss the green light.
Then he inched along till he missed the next light and the one after that.
He stopped at every stop even though not a soul was waiting.
The 20-minute trip to work stretched to a half-hour, then longer.
I was late, late, late.
But this was a driver with a mission, clearly way ahead of schedule and trying to get back on track.
He was very early; now I was very late.
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas, and the one in the drivers seat was bound to win.
A half-hour later, still sweating from racing the last five blocks on foot, with patients piling up in the waiting room, I became the one in the drivers seat, with the mission and overriding agenda.
Woe betide those with competing plans.
Just like that driver, I work under two mandates.
One is professional: getting my passengers from point A to point B without breaking the law or killing anyone.
The other one is less exalted but generally far more visible: I run according to a schedule that I ignore at my peril.
Shes running late, they mutter out in the waiting room.
And indeed, she runs late for exactly the same reasons your bus runs late: too many slow-moving passengers lined up to board.
Not enough buses or drivers.
A person in a wheelchair requiring extra attention.
Horrible traffic.
Not only does she often run late, but your poor driver  er, doctor  can run only so late before disaster ensues.
She has obligations not only to you and your fellow passengers twitching in annoyance, but to a host of others, including the nursing and secretarial staffs and the cleaning crew at the end of the line.
She cant pull that bus in at midnight if everyone is supposed to leave by 7 p.m.
So when there is enough work to last till midnight, my agenda shifts, and not so subtly.
Everyone can tell when I begin to speed.
Every visit is pared down to the essentials.
All optional and cosmetic issues are postponed, including most toenail problems and all paperwork.
Chatting is minimized.
As a bus driver once said to me when I was foolish enough to start a conversation about his speed: Lady, just get behind the white line and let me drive.
Medicine is full of competing agendas.
Even at the best of times, the match between the doctors and the patients is less than perfect, sometimes egregiously so.
Some residents are now trained specifically in agenda setting, the art of successfully amalgamating all concerns.
But when its all about speed, an advanced skill set is required.
A patient has been waiting weeks for his appointment, anxiously rehearsing his lines.
Bad luck that he showed up on a day I need him in and out in 19 minutes.
He spends his first 18 unwisely, pretending everything is fine, making small talk, not quite mustering the courage to say whats on his mind.
Then just as he is being ushered gently to the door, he pauses.
Oh, by the way 

Oh, by the way is an infamous schedule buster.
It means something bad: a suspicious lump, a sexually transmitted disease.
Further, it is so common that an entire literature now addresses the oh, by the way phenomenon and how to tame it.
One favored tool is: What else?
That question, asked by the doctor early in the visit, is intended to probe the patients agenda before it trumps the doctors.
As one set of researchers wrote: The what else?
technique uncovers pertinent fears and anxieties up front and prevents an oh, by the way, I have been having some chest pain from surfacing at the end of a visit.
In other words: My agenda is to adopt your agenda, and then rework it so that I can drive on.
Brutal, perhaps, but effective.
Very rarely do things work out for me the way they did for that driver who made me so late to work.
Occasionally I have so much time that I can dawdle along the route.
I remember clearly the last time that happened.
Hows work?
I began.
What are you doing for exercise?
Any hobbies?
Your family, are they well?
I progressed rapidly through seatbelts, bike helmets, family medical history, end-of-life preferences  every single stop my bus typically has no time to make.
Every answer was fine, yes, or I dunno.
Then the patient stood up: Look, I have places to be.
Are we done?
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas.
But that time the one in the drivers seat lost.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

The Checkup Dr. Perri Klass on family health.
When girls come in for their physical exams, one of the questions I routinely ask is Do you get your period?
I try to ask before I expect the answer to be yes, so that if a girl doesnt seem to know about the changes of puberty that lie ahead, I can encourage her to talk about them with her mother, and offer to help answer questions.
And I often point out that even those who have not yet embarked on puberty themselves are likely to have classmates who are going through these changes, so, again, its important to let kids know that their questions are welcome, and will be answered accurately.
But like everybody else who deals with girls, Im aware that this means bringing up the topic when girls are pretty young.
Puberty is now coming earlier for many girls, with bodies changing in the third and fourth grade, and there is a complicated discussion about the reasons, from obesity and family stress to chemicals in the environment that may disrupt the normal effects of hormones.
Im not going to try to delineate that discussion here  though its an important one  because I want to concentrate on the effect, rather than the cause, of reaching puberty early.
A large study published in May in the journal Pediatrics looked at a group of 8,327 children born in Hong Kong in April and May of 1997, for whom a great deal of health data has been collected.
The researchers had access to the childrens health records, showing how their doctors had documented their physical maturity, according to what are known as the Tanner stages, for the standardized pediatric index of sexual maturation.
Before children enter puberty, we call it Tanner I; for girls, Tanner II is the beginning of breast development, while for boys, its the enlargement of the scrotum and testes and the reddening and changing of the scrotum skin.
Boys and girls then progress through the intermediate changes to stage V, full physical maturity.
In this study, the researchers looked at the relationship between the age at which children moved from Tanner I to Tanner II  that is, the age at which the physical beginnings of puberty were noticed  and the likelihood of depression in those children when they were 12 to 15 years old, as detected on a screening questionnaire.
What we found was the girls who had earlier breast development had a higher risk of depressive symptoms, or more depressive symptoms, said Dr. C. Mary Schooling, an epidemiologist who is a professor at the City University of New York School of Public Health, and was the senior author on the study.
We didnt see the same thing for boys.
Earlier onset of breast development in girls was associated with a higher risk of depression in early adolescence even after controlling for many other factors, including socioeconomic status, weight or parents marital status.
Other studies, including in the United States, have shown this same pattern, with girls who begin developing earlier than their peers vulnerable to depression in adolescence.
Some studies have found this in boys, though its not as clear.
But there is concern that girls whose development starts earlier than their peers are at risk in a number of ways, and across different cultural backgrounds.
Early puberty is a challenge and a stress, and its associated with more than depression, said Dr. Jane Mendle, a clinical psychologist in the department of human development at Cornell University.
She named anxiety, disordered eating and self-injury as some of the risks for girls.
In her studies of puberty, she has found associations between early development and depression in both genders in New York children.
In boys, the tempo of puberty was significant, as well as the timing; boys who moved more rapidly from one Tanner stage to the next were at higher risk and the increased depression risk seemed to be related to changes in their peer relationships.
Before puberty, Dr. Mendle said, depression occurs at roughly the same rate in both sexes, but by the midpoint of puberty, girls are two and a half times more likely to be depressed than boys.
Some of these children may already be at risk; Dr. Mendle said that early puberty is more common in children who have grown up in circumstances of adversity, in poverty, in the foster care system.
But some of it is heredity and some of it is body type and some of it, probably, is chance.
Researchers have wondered about hormonal associations with depression; Dr.
Schooling pointed out that their study found that depression was associated with early breast development, controlled by estrogens, but not with early pubic hair development, controlled by androgens.
There is no physical factor that we know about that would explain this; estrogen has been eliminated as a driver of depression in earlier research, she said in an email.
We probably need to explore social factors to seek an explanation.
They also plan to follow up with their study population at age 17.
The biological transition of puberty, of course, occurs in a social and cultural context.
One very important effect of developing early, Dr. Mendle said, is that it changes the way that people treat you, from your peers to the adults in your life to strangers.
When kids navigate puberty they start to look different, she said.
It can be hard for them to maintain friendships with kids who havent developed, and we also know that early maturing girls are more likely to be harassed and victimized by other kids in their grade.
Parents should be aware of the difficulties that children may experience if they start puberty earlier than their peers, but lots of children handle early development with resiliency, and even pride.
Children who start puberty early  say, 8 instead of 12  are faced with handling those physical changes while they are more childlike in their knowledge and their cognitive development, and in their emotional understanding of what goes on around them.
Parents should keep in mind that the same protective factors that help children navigate other challenges of growing up are helpful here: All children do better when they have good relationships with their parents, and when they feel connected at school.
And we should be talking about the changes to their bodies before they happen, and make it clear that all of these topics are open for discussion.
Related:

Sign up for the Well Family newsletter to get the latest news on parenting, child health and relationships with advice from our experts to help every family live well.
Video

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
No doubt in the course of your life, you did something, or failed to do something, that left you feeling guilty or ashamed.
What if that something was in such violation of your moral compass that you felt unable to forgive yourself, undeserving of happiness, perhaps even unfit to live?
That is the fate of an untold number of servicemen and women who served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam and other wars.
Many participated in, witnessed or were unable to help in the face of atrocities, from failing to aid an injured person to killing a child, by accident or in self-defense.
For some veterans, this leaves emotional wounds that time refuses to heal.
It radically changes them and how they deal with the world.
It has a name: moral injury.
Unlike a better known casualty of war, post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, moral injury is not yet a recognized psychiatric diagnosis, although the harm it inflicts is as bad if not worse.
The problem is highlighted in a new documentary called Almost Sunrise, which will be shown next weekend at the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in New York and on June 23 and 24 at AFI Docs in Washington, D.C.
The film depicts the emotional agony and self-destructive aftermath of moral injury and follows two sufferers along a path that alleviates their psychic distress and offers hope for eventual recovery.
Photo

Therapists both within and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs increasingly recognize moral injury as the reason so many returning vets are self-destructive and are not helped, or only partly helped, by established treatments for PTSD.
Moral injury has some of the symptoms of PTSD, especially anger, depression, anxiety, nightmares, insomnia and self-medication with drugs or alcohol.
And it may benefit from some of the same treatments.
But moral injury has an added burden of guilt, grief, shame, regret, sorrow and alienation that requires a very different approach to reach the core of a sufferers psyche.
Unlike the soldiers who were drafted to serve in Vietnam, the members of the armed forces today chose to enlist.
Those deployed to Iraq thought at first they were fighting to bring democracy to the country, then were told later it was to win hearts and minds.
But to many of those in battle, the real effect was to terrorize people, as one veteran says in the film.
Another said, Thats not what we signed up for.
That war can be morally compromising is not a new idea and has been true in every war.
But the therapeutic community is only now becoming aware of the dimensions of moral injury and how it can be treated.
Father Thomas Keating, a founding member of Contemplative Outreach, says in the film, Antidepressants dont reach the depth of what these men are feeling, that they did something terribly wrong and dont know if they can be forgiven.
The first challenge, though, is to get emotionally damaged veterans to acknowledge their hidden agony and seek professional help instead of trying to suppress it, often by engaging in self-destructive behaviors.
A lot of vets wont seek help because whats haunting them are not heroic acts, or they were betrayed, or they cant live with themselves because they made a mistake, said Brett Litz, a mental health specialist with the V.A.
Boston Healthcare System and a leading expert on moral injury.
The second challenge is to win their trust, to reassure them that they will not be judged and are deserving of forgiveness.
Therapists who study and treat moral injury have found that no amount of medication can relieve the pain of trying to live with an unbearable moral burden.
They say those suffering from moral injury contribute significantly to the horrific toll of suicide among returning vets  estimated as high as 18 to 22 a day in the United States, more than the number lost in combat.
The film features two very troubled veterans of the war in Iraq, Tom Voss and Anthony Anderson, who decide to walk from Milwaukee to Los Angeles  2,700 miles taking 155 days  to help them heal from the combat experiences that haunt them and threaten to destroy their most valued relationships.
Six years after returning from his second deployment in Iraq, Mr. Voss said of his mental state before taking the cross-country trek, If anything, its worse now.
Along the way, the two men raise awareness of the unrelenting pain of moral injury many vets face and encourage them to seek treatment.
Mr. Voss and Mr. Anderson were helped by a number of counselors and treatments, including a Native American spiritual healer and a meditative technique called power breathing.
They also found communing with nature to be restorative, enabling them to again recognize beauty in the world.
Shira Maguen, a research psychologist and clinician at the San Francisco V.A.
Medical Center, who studies and treats vets suffering from moral injury, said, We have a big focus on self-forgiveness.
We have them write a letter to the person they killed or to a younger version of themselves.
We focus on making amends, planning for their future and moving forward, especially important since many think they have no future.
Dr. Maguen, who studied how killing during combat affects suicidal ideation in returning vets, found that those who had killed were at much higher risk of suicide, even when controlling for factors like PTSD, depression and alcohol and drug abuse.
She said in an interview that decades after the Vietnam War, there was still an impact on veterans who killed enemy combatants, and an even stronger effect on those who killed women and children.
Photo

To overcome veterans reluctance to seek help for moral injury, Dr. Maguen incorporates mental health care into routine clinical visits.
In Boston, Dr. Litz and colleagues are testing a therapeutic approach called adaptive disclosure, a technique akin to confession.
With eyes closed, the vets are asked to verbally share vivid details of their trauma with an imagined compassionate person who loves them, then imagine how that person would respond.
The therapist guides the conversation along a path toward healing.
Disclosing, sharing, confessing is fundamental to repair, Dr. Litz said.
In doing so, the vets learn that what happened to them can be tolerated, theyre not rejected.
They are also encouraged to engage in the world in a way that is repairing  for example, by helping children or writing letters.
The goal is to find forgiveness within themselves or from others.
One fact that all agree on: The process is a lengthy one.
As Mr. Voss said, I knew after the walk I still had a long road of healing ahead of me.
Now, however, he has some useful tools and he shares them freely.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Think Like a Doctor Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders.
On Thursday, we challenged Well readers to solve the case of a previously healthy 67-year-old gardener who abandoned his garden one summer, alarming his wife and adult children.
For weeks this vibrant and energetic man had been the last one out of bed  something his family had never seen before.
And his days were interrupted each afternoon with a fever that left him shaking and pale.
More than 300 readers suggested diagnoses for this classic presentation of an unusual disease, and a couple dozen of you nailed it.
The correct diagnosis is

Babesiosis

The first person to identify this unusual infection was Dr. Paige Szymanowski, a resident in her second year of training in internal medicine at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
She said she recognized the pattern of a fever with a low blood count, low platelet count and evidence of liver injury.
Dr. Szymanowski hasnt made up her mind what kind of doctor shes going to be, but she is thinking of subspecializing in infectious diseases.
I think she shows real promise in this area.
Well done!
The Diagnosis

Babesiosis is caused by the parasite Babesia microti, a protozoa.
It is usually transmitted by Ixodes scapularis, better known as the deer tick, the same small arthropod that transmits Lyme disease.
Sometimes the two diseases occur together, passed on in the same bite.
The disease can also be spread through blood transfusions from an infected donor.
Babesiosis is rare and occurs primarily in the Northeast and Upper Midwest  Minnesota and Wisconsin  regions of the United States.
In healthy people it often causes no symptoms.
However, those who are over 65 or who have some type of immune suppression  because of a chronic disease or medication  or those who dont have a spleen are more likely to develop symptoms and can become quite ill or even die from this infection.
Easy to Miss

Babesiosis is difficult to diagnose, and the diagnosis is often overlooked, even in areas where infection is most common.
Patients with babesiosis have few, if any, localizing signs to suggest the disease.
Fever  which can be constant or, as was the case with this patient, intermittent  is common.
So are shaking, chills, fatigue, loss of appetite, abdominal pain and headache.
These symptoms, however, are seen in many infections.
And indeed, our patient had all of these symptoms, but it took many weeks for him to get a diagnosis.
The diagnosis is confirmed when the ring form of the protozoa is seen on a blood smear, or when the Babesia DNA is detected in the blood.
Doxycycline, which is used to treat other tick-borne diseases, is ineffective against this organism.
An antimalarial medication (atovaquone) plus an antibiotic (azithromycin) are first-line treatments against this infection.
Improvement is usually seen within 48 hours of starting the drugs.
Although the infection will often resolve without treatment, all who are diagnosed with the disease should be treated since, in rare cases, the bug will persist and become symptomatic if a patient later develops some immune system problem or has his spleen removed.
How the Diagnosis Was Made

Dr. Neil Gupta was leading the daytime on-call team at Saint Raphaels hospital in New Haven, Conn., where the patients daughter had taken him.
Dr. Gupta heard about this patient when the night team handed off the patients they had admitted on their shift and met him that morning.
Seeing how well the patient looked, and hearing that hed been given the usually benign diagnosis of hepatitis A, he turned his attention to patients who seemed sicker and more in need of thought and care.
Until the patient spiked his usual afternoon fever.
One of the ways the doctors mind works is to put together pictures of what a disease looks like in a patient.
We put these so-called illness scripts together based on our knowledge of the disease plus the patients we have seen who have had it.
When Dr. Gupta heard that the patient had spiked a temperature, he went back to see how he was doing.
The patient was pleasant but didnt say much.
Perhaps there was a language barrier  he spoke with a thick Italian accent.
Or perhaps he was one of those patients who just dont focus on what ails them.
Hearing From the Patients Family

The patients wife and daughter, however, had been much more attuned to the changes in his health and behavior, and what they reported didnt really sound like hepatitis.
Was this the right diagnosis, Dr. Gupta wondered?
He sat down with the family in the nursing lounge and let them tell the whole story as they recalled it.
The man had actually been sick for several weeks.
Hed had a fever every day.
And he was tired.
Normally he never sat down, was never idle.
These days it seemed he never left the house anymore.
Never went into the garden.
He just sat on the sofa.
For hours.
Sometimes he had pain in his upper abdomen, but never any nausea; he had never vomited.
But he did have a cough.
This was not the man they knew, the women told him.
Reviewing the Symptoms

Dr. Gupta returned to the patient and examined him, this time quite carefully, looking for the signs common in hep A.
The mans skin was dark but not yellow; and his eyes, while appearing tired, showed no hint of yellow either.
His liver was not enlarged or tender.
He didnt look to Dr. Gupta like a patient who had hepatitis A.
The patient did have tests that were positive for hepatitis A, however.
Could these tests be wrong?
Dr. Gupta suspected that was the case.
O.K., if not hepatitis A, what did he have?
The young internist made a list of the key components of the case: He had recurring fevers every afternoon.
He had a cough and some upper abdominal pain.
Not very specific  except for the repeating fevers.
The labs were a little more helpful.
His liver showed signs of very mild injury  again, not consistent with hepatitis A, which usually causes significant liver insult.
However, he did have a mild anemia that had gotten worse over the past three days.
Hed had his blood count drawn two days earlier, when he went to the emergency room at YaleNew Haven Hospital.
That showed a very mild anemia  slightly fewer red blood cells than normal.
The evening before, the patients red blood cell count had dropped further.
And today, even further.
So his red blood cells were being destroyed somehow.
To Dr. Gupta, that seemed to be a second important clue.
In addition, his platelets were quite low.
Many Possiblities

So, the patient had cyclic fevers, a worsening anemia and a mild liver injury.
That suggested a very different set of diseases.
The patient was a gardener and had been treated for Lyme disease.
Could he have a different tick-borne illness?
Certainly a number of illnesses could present this way.
The cyclic fevers were suggestive of malaria  rare in this country, but still worth thinking about.
Could this be mononucleosis?
Or even H.I.V.?
Those diseases can affect red blood cells and the liver.
And they can last weeks or months.
If those tests were negative, he would need to start looking for autoimmune diseases or cancers.
Finally, he would need to review the blood smear with the pathologist.
Several of these diseases can provide clues when you look at the blood itself.
An Answer in the Blood

A call came to Dr. Gupta late the next day.
The pathologist had tested the patients blood for the presence of the Babesia gene, and found it.
The patient had babesiosis.
Dr. Gupta went down to look at the blood smear with the pathologist.
There, in the middle of a sea of normal looking red blood cells, was a tiny pear-shaped object.
It was one of the protozoa.
Dr. Gupta was excited.
He pulled up a picture of the tick that spreads the disease and the tiny bug that causes it to show to the family.
This was what was making the patient so very sick.
How the Patient Fared

The patient was started on the two medications to treat babesiosis the same day.
Twenty-four hours later he spent his first day completely fever-free  the first in several weeks.
After a couple more days, the patient was up and walking around, asking to go home.
He went home the following day, with instructions to take his two medications twice a day for a total of 10 days.
That was last summer.
This summer, the patient is back in his garden.
He is a little more careful to avoid getting tick bites.
He wears his long pants tucked into his socks and his wife looks him over every night  just to be sure.
Photo

Got seven minutes?
Weve got the app.
Today The New York Times is offering a free mobile app for the popular Scientific 7-Minute Workout and the new Advanced 7-Minute Workout.
The workouts, reported by Gretchen Reynolds, our Phys Ed columnist, can now be installed on your smartphone or tablet, or used on your desktop computer.
The app offers a step-by-step guide to both 7-minute workouts, offering animated illustrations of the exercises, as well as a timer and audio cues to help you get the most out of your seven minutes.
In the coming months, well offer additional Well fitness apps to give you a full library of workout options using your smartphone, tablet or computer as a personal fitness guide.
If you have suggestions or feedback about the new apps, feel free to post a comment below.
iPhone and iPad app users can leave comments here.
How To Install

Photo

On an iOS device, open this link.
Tap the Bookmark button, then Add to Home Screen.
The app is then usable even if you dont have an Internet connection.
Photo

On an Android device, use the Chrome browser to open this link.
Then tap the Menu button, then Add to Home Screen.
The app is then usable even if you dont have an Internet connection.
To use on a desktop or other device, click here.
Asprey says he finally lost faith in Western medicine at 23, when a doctor told him that vitamin C could kill him.
It turns out this isnt true, but for Asprey it was the last straw.
As a boy, he suffered from inexplicable rashes and alarming, recurring nosebleeds.
He says he also felt a mental sluggishness that never seemed to recede.
This frightened him, especially as he entered college.
By the time he was 22, he weighed 300 pounds.
He bought disability insurance when he was about 25 because he was worried that there would come a day when he wouldnt have enough energy to work.
His poor health didnt hold back his career.
Asprey rose through a series of high-profile positions at several successful technology companies in the 90s and 00s.
Still, he felt restless and unhappy.
In 1995, determined to get his weight under control, he spent 18 months on a strict diet and exercised six days a week.
He got stronger, but lost little fat.
And the food restrictions made him even more miserable.
Photo

In the 90s, Asprey studied a form of information management called a decision support system at California State University, Stanislaus.
Such systems use artificial intelligence to analyze data and present it so users can more easily make difficult business decisions.
Asprey decided to apply similar tactics to his health.
He began closely tracking his food intake alongside his energy levels, mood, sleep and physical activity to create a data set so he could see what patterns emerged  which inputs correlated with positive outcomes and which didnt.
After his failed low-calorie diet, he tried others: the Zone, Atkins, raw veganism, high-protein and intermittent fasting.
At the same time, he went to extreme lengths to collect additional data on his bodys performance.
He had adrenal testing done to better understand how his hormones worked; extensive blood work let him monitor his glucose and albumin levels.
He got DNA tests to look for genes that might cause immunodeficiency and sent out samples of his feces to learn about the microbes in his digestive tract.
He bought an electroencephalogram, or EEG machine, to monitor his brain waves.
Once, in 2006, hoping to treat gut problems, he placed an order online for a shipment of parasites called porcine whipworm.
The eggs arrived from Thailand a few days later in a saline solution.
He drank the whole thing hoping they would trigger an anti-inflammatory reaction in his gut.
They didnt.
In all, Asprey says, he has spent more than $300,000 over 20 years on this self-funded research.
He talks about himself almost as a lab rat, or as a monkey that was shot into space and returned intact, bearing data to share.
But, with his background in computer science, he also fancies himself a hacker  someone who endlessly manipulates a complex system, troubleshooting and looking for vulnerabilities to exploit.
He eventually developed his dietary guidelines, which emphasize that half the days calories should come from healthy fats like coconut oil and avocados.
Asprey believes these provide more energy and satiation than carbohydrates.
The rest is a mix of organic proteins and vegetables.
It is both strict and decadent.
Sugar (including fruit), grains, legumes and pasteurized dairy are to be avoided, as are many trendy health food items like raw kale and nut milks, which Asprey says contain toxins.
The diet is ketogenic; it forces the body to burn fat, instead of carbohydrates and glucose, for energy.
The centerpiece of the Bulletproof Diet  and the business  is Bulletproof Coffee: a blend of freshly brewed coffee, the Brain Octane oil and grass-fed butter, consumed at the beginning of each day to boost energy and curb hunger.
It comes with a remarkable patter.
In 2004, as part of his campaign of self-improvement, Asprey went to Tibet to study meditation.
On a trek in the Himalayas, he began to feel the effects of altitude sickness.
At a local guesthouse, he was served a cup of tea mixed with yak butter, which he found to be revitalizing and energizing.
After returning home, he tried to make his own version, and eventually landed on the recipe he sells today  almost.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Asprey and Bulletproof employees are fond of asking whether youve had real Bulletproof Coffee  meaning not made with store-bought butter and coconut oil in your kitchen, but with their branded products.
Asprey insists that most American coffee is riddled with a fungus that causes a post-consumption crash.
He is especially hung up on mold toxins, or mycotoxins, which he believes were responsible for the health conditions that afflicted him while growing up.
The mold in American coffee, he says, leads to illnesses, inflammation and weight gain.
Asprey sells his own specially treated mold-free coffee for as much as $18.95 a pound online and at the shop.
Next month, he is releasing a Bulletproof cookbook.
Despite some superficial signs of age, Aspreys face is unlined, and after a while his self-assuredness and unflinching confidence in his methodology becomes contagious.
Listening to his story, I stopped questioning his logic.
I found myself growing impatient as he described the benefits of his medicine cabinet of brain nutrients, and asked for some  I feel like I need them, I said.
An assistant brought in freshly blended cups of Bulletproof Coffee in Bulletproof-branded stainless-steel travel mugs.
The fattiness of the butter and oil lent the coffee a mouth feel similar to Guinness.
After a few sips, I started to feel giddy, and almost high  as if I could run a marathon and deliver a keynote lecture and do my taxes, all at once.
Photo

The next morning, I arrived at the Pasadena Convention Center for the first day of the Bulletproof Biohacking conference.
Inside, the crowd was almost comically Southern Californian.
The bodies were firm, the jawlines sharp.
The women were no strangers to cosmetic enhancement, and most of the men wore aggressively sculpted updos or low-slung man buns.
Five-toe Vibram shoes and neoprene yoga pants were the popular pan-gender wardrobe choices.
This was the vanguard of the quantified-consumer class  health-conscious Angelenos, the same types who were early adopters of the Master Cleanse and green juices.
The event was billed as a cutting-edge biohacking event, but it was tame compared with what goes on at the fringes of this community.
Seven months earlier and about two hours away, in Tehachapi, a much more extreme clique of biohackers gathered to share the recent discoveries from their world at a gathering called GrindFest.
These are the real transhumanists, the kind of people who implant magnets under their skin and embed microchips in their bodies to replace key cards.
Aspreys ethos is not so dissimilar  he wants to push humanity past its biological limits  but his sell is a little more palatable: We need only think of our bodies as hardware in order to improve upon them.
Little of the technology on display at the Bulletproof convention was new.
No one was being implanted or fused with anything.
They preferred to upgrade the old-fashioned way, with a miracle drug or pill or elixir that would transform them from the inside out, and there was no shortage of products that promised to do so.
The Bulletproof Coffee was abundant, as were the Bulletproof-branded collagen bars, grass-fed meat jerky and small paper cups of steaming, earthy bone broth.
There were samples of Fat Water, a new Bulletproof sports drink infused with a certain fatty acid that Asprey believes the body processes into energy more efficiently than it does glucose.
There were Bulletproof-branded supplements, like glutathione, an antioxidant that Asprey says helps detoxify the body.
I narrowly missed the cricket brownies smeared with colostrum icing  the crowd descended on them as soon as they were set out.
I watched a woman drip a tincture made from deer antlers on the eager tongue of a slim and handsome attendee.
I rolled my eyes at a hypnotist putting a woman into a trance, and then, hours later, the same hypnotist talked me into taking an injection of vitamins labeled simply a shine shot.
(He had taken one, too.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are more than a few nutritionists who are dubious of Aspreys bold claims.
Its hard not to be  theres little research outside his own that backs them up.
Aspreys diet advises against calorie counting.
It is also high in fat.
Marion Nestle, an author and professor of nutrition and public health at New York University, is among those skeptical of what Asprey is selling.
I dont know any diet, exercise or healthful-living shortcuts, she wrote in an emailed exchange.
We all want to live forever, and if changing one thing in our diets can do that, we can all hope.
The success of the dietary-supplement industry is best explained by wish-fulfillment fantasies.
On the day before the conference began, I asked Asprey about his childhood.
He quickly rattled off a few sentences about his parents.
They worked at Sandia National Laboratories, which taught him the value of scientific inquiry.
That wasnt what I had meant.
Were his parents particularly health-oriented?
Or did he grow up eating takeout and frozen meals?
He gave a dismissive shrug.
My parents gave me squeeze margarine and bran muffins because thats what the magazines said, he said.
He paused for a moment, reconsidering.
They did their best.
During the 80s, when Asprey was a kid, eating bran muffins was the fad diet of the day  that, and a little Jazzercise, and youd be set.
Eventually, people came to recognize that the benefits of the fiber were canceled out by the heavy caloric load and sugars.
Margarine was also peaking in popularity around that time, seen then as a sensible alternative to butter.
But since then, nutritionists have questioned the wisdom of the low-fat, high-carb diet that Americans have been steered toward for years.
Aspreys diet is, for all its technological fervor, a refutation of the last generations hollow wisdom.
In its avoidance of complex carbohydrates and its pseudoscientific rhetoric, its not so dissimilar from the Paleo diet  along with a bunch of supplements that would befuddle a cave man, or even a New Yorker.
My own parents were trim and active; they were also Southern, which meant that butter-and-sugar sandwiches and cheese grits were staples of our diet.
I was a heavy teenager, with more acne and eczema than Id like to remember, and it wasnt until my 20s that I understood the role dietary habits played in that.
Since then, Ive endlessly experimented with raw diets, green juices, Paleo-inspired meal plans and various cultish boutique fitness classes, trying to figure out what works best to maintain a healthy weight.
I still dont have a definitive answer.
Fad diets persist because they are seductive, and offer the promise of unlocking a better you by following a few simple rules.
And Aspreys pitch couldnt be more epistemologically fashionable: A/B testing, hacking and data analysis have already provided us with many novel insights and conveniences.
Asprey believes that nutrition should be as effortless as everything else in our technology-enhanced existence  why shouldnt it be?
His background is in information management, and that is what he is skilled at: distilling oceanic volumes of information for easy consumption and decision-making.
The allure of the Bulletproof lifestyle is that you can outsource that work.
That fundamental laziness, where I want everything to be easier, is part of what drives me, he told me that first day.
I dont want to do more work than is necessary to do great things.
I dont see why anyone should do more work than is necessary to do great things.
Photo

From the Well archives.
The chubby, inert pet dog has become a familiar household sight in richer countries.
And yet there lies a possible boon to the out-of-shape among us.
A recent study suggests that being told ones pet is dangerously overweight might provide the impetus that gets an owner moving.
It might seem that having a pet dog would result in considerable physical activity, and thats true, broadly speaking.
A 2013 review of studies related to dog ownership concluded that as a group, dog owners spend almost an hour more per week walking than people without dogs.
Even so, a survey from 2008 conducted in Australia found that nearly a quarter of all dog owners reported never walking their pets.
This population of dog owners, studies show, actually engage in less physical activity each week than people without a dog.
A majority of dog owners, of course, are deeply attached to their pets, whether they walk them or not.
That bond prompted a group of scientists, veterinarians and physicians at the Uniformed Services University of Health Sciences, in Bethesda, Md., and other institutions to consider whether people might be willing to undertake a health-and-fitness regimen targeted at their dog, even if they had little enthusiasm for such a program for themselves.
The researchers recruited 32 dog owners who visited a veterinary clinic in Maryland.
Their dogs varied widely in age, breed and size, but all were overweight or obese and, by and large, sedentary.
So, too, were most of their owners (although the only criterion for their participation was that their dogs be rotund).
Half the volunteers were told by a veterinarian to watch their dogs nutrition and monitor its health.
The rest were told that their dog was overweight and needed more exercise.
These owners were given specific exercise prescriptions, which generally advised walking the dog for at least 30 minutes every day.
Three months later, the volunteers and their dogs were re-evaluated.
Both owners and pets in the dog-walking group had lost weight.
But more interesting, those who had been told only that their pets were worryingly heavy also began exercising their pets and themselves.
They reported walking far more often than they did before they got health warnings for their dogs, and both they and their pets were thinner.
The upshot, says Capt.
Mark B. Stephens M.D., a professor of family medicine at Uniformed Services University and a co-author of the study  it was published in September in the journal Anthrozos  is that love and concern for a dog can be a powerful motivation for exercise.
Which is not to say, he adds, that people should adopt a dog as a kind of fitness device.
Unlike a treadmill, Marley cannot be abandoned in the basement when you tire of working out.
On the other hand, no device will ever be so happy to see you lace up your walking shoes.
Photo



This article appeared in the May 25, 2014 issue of The New York Times Magazine.
Losing weight is simple: Ingest fewer calories than your body burns.
But how best to do that is unclear.
Most experts advise small reductions in calories or increases in exercise to remove weight slowly and sensibly, but many people quit that type of program in the face of glacial progress.
A new study, published in March in The Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports, suggests that minimal calories and maximal exercise can significantly reduce body fat in just four days  and the loss lasts for months.
The catch, of course, is that those four days are pretty grueling.
Researchers in Spain and Sweden had 15 healthy but overweight Swedish men restrict their calories to about 360 a day, a reduction of approximately 1,800 calories.
What calories they did ingest came in liquid form: Some men drank mostly sugary carbohydrates, others a high-protein drink.
The men also exercised  a lot.
Their days began with 45 minutes of cranking an arm-pedaling machine for an upper-body workout.
Then, as a group, the men strolled for eight hours across the Swedish countryside, with only a 10-minute break every hour.
They were allowed as much of a low-calorie, sports-type beverage as they wanted during their walks.
Most of the men were surprised that it was easier than they thought it would be, says Jos Calbet, a professor at the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria in Spain; he and his colleague Hans-Christer Holmberg, a professor at Mid Sweden University in Ostersund, led the study.
Some of the subjects experienced minor problems with pain in the joints and blisters on their feet, according to Calbet, but none dropped out or complained of hunger.
After four days, the men had each lost almost 11 pounds, with nearly half of that coming from body fat; the rest of the loss came primarily from muscle mass.
The researchers had anticipated that the high-protein drink would protect people against muscle-mass loss.
In fact, the losses were the same, whether the men had been given sugar or protein.
More surprising, the men did not immediately put the weight back on after the study ended.
We thought they would overeat and regain the weight lost, Dr. Calbet says.
Instead, when the volunteers returned a month later, most had lost another two pounds of fat.
And a year after the experiment, they were still down five pounds, mostly in lost body fat.
Dr. Calbet and his colleagues hope to study whether women respond similarly to men and whether repeated bouts of such a program might affect muscular health and appetite hormones.
But given the doleful statistics on weight loss  most people regain everything they lose dieting and more  these results are startling.
They also, at the moment, are inexplicable.
The only explanation we can offer for the sustained loss, Dr. Calbet says, is that the men were inspired by their hypercompressed success to change their lifestyles.
The men moved more and ate less than before.
Photo

This article appeared in the March 9, 2014 issue of The New York Times Magazine.
Bones should be jarred, for their own good.
Past experiments have definitively established that subjecting bones to abrupt stress prompts them to add mass or at least reduces their loss of mass as people age.
What has been in dispute, however, is how much force is needed to stimulate bone  and how to apply that force in daily life.
Recently researchers at the University of Bristol gathered male and female adolescents  the body accumulates bone mass rapidly at this time of life  and had them go about their daily routines while they wore activity monitors.
The bone density of the volunteers hips was also measured.
A week later, the scientists reclaimed the monitors to check each teenagers exposure to G forces, a measure of impact.
Those who experienced impacts of 4.2 Gs or greater  though these were infrequent  had notably sturdier hipbones.
Additional work done by the same researchers showed that running a 10-minute mile or jumping up onto and down from a box at least 15 inches high was needed to produce forces that great.
The significance of these findings is that people should probably run pretty fast or jump high to generate forces great enough to help build bone.
Unfortunately, few older adults are likely to be doing so.
In follow-up experiments, the same researchers equipped 20 women older than 60 with activity monitors and ran them through an aerobics class, several brief and increasingly brisk walks and a session of stepping onto and off a foot-high box.
None of the women reached the 4-G threshold  none, in fact, generated more than 2.1 Gs of force at any point during the various exercises.
The implications are somewhat concerning.
Dr. Jon Tobias, a professor of rheumatology at the University of Bristol who led the experiments, says that while impacts that produce fewer than 4 Gs of force may help adults maintain bone mass  a possibility that he and his colleagues are exploring in ongoing experiments  its unclear what level of force below 4 Gs is needed.
So, Dr. Tobias says, young people and healthy adults should probably pound the ground, at least sometimes.
Sprint.
Jump off a box 15 inches or higher at your gym and jump back up.
Hop in place.
A study by other researchers published in January found that women between 25 and 50 who hopped at least 10 times twice a day, with 30 seconds between each hop, significantly increased their hipbone density after four months.
Another group of subjects, who hopped 20 times daily, showed even greater gains.
Alas, a kind of Catch-22 confronts older individuals who have not been engaging in high-impact exercise: Their bodies and bones may not be capable of handling the types of activity most likely to improve bone health.
Dr. Tobias and his colleagues hope to better understand what level of impact will benefit these people.
In the meantime, anyone uncertain about the state of his or her bones should consult a physician before undertaking high-impact exercise (a caveat that also applies to those with a history of joint problems, including arthritis).
For his part, Dr. Tobias says, I plan to keep running until my joints wear out.
A number of other factors seem to play a role.
Mothers younger than 20 years or older than 40 have children with a higher infant mortality.
First babies have a higher chance of death than later siblings.
Unmarried mothers also have a higher rate of death in their children, more than 70 percent higher than that of married mothers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The No.
1 cause of infant mortality among newborns is premature birth, which has traditionally been linked with inferior prenatal care.
That may not be the case in the United States.
A 2006 study published in Epidemiology looked at how preterm delivery occurred among women in active-duty military installations.
Such women receive the same prenatal care regardless of race, or even socio-economic status.
Because they were guaranteed care, their overall risk of premature delivery was low, just over 8 percent.
But even among these women, black women were more than two times as likely as white women to deliver prematurely, regardless of military rank.
A Cochrane Systematic Review of the additional support women received during at-risk pregnancies included 17 studies and more than 12,000 women.
Additional care was not associated with any improvements in any perinatal outcomes.
C-sections were less common, as was hospital admission after birth, but infant mortality was not affected.
Another such review examined how the number of prenatal visits affected infant mortality.
Seven studies involved more than 60,000 women in countries of varying income.
There was no difference in high-income countries in the number of deaths of those who had more or fewer visits (although the number of deaths over all was low).
In low- and middle-income countries, perinatal mortality was higher in groups with reduced visits, but the overall difference was small.
The authors concluded that in places where the number of visits was already low, reducing the number of visits further was a bad idea.
This doesnt necessarily apply to standard care in the United States, though.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recently published paper in the American Economic Journal: Economic Policy adds to this discussion.
Alice Chen, Emily Oster and Heidi Williams combined data from the United States with data from Finland, Austria, Belgium and Britain.
As other studies have done before, they adjusted for differences in coding of very premature births.
And as other studies found before, the United States has a significant infant mortality disadvantage.
This study was different, however.
It used microdata, or individual records of birth and death, as opposed to the aggregate data usually employed for cross-country comparisons.
First, the researchers differentiated between neonatal mortality (death before one month of age) and postneonatal mortality (death between 1 and 12 months of age).
The results showed that when it comes to neonatal mortality, the United States and other countries were pretty similar.
If anything, the authors report, the United States might have a mortality advantage during this period.
Differences in postneonatal mortality, or from one month to one year, however, were much more stark.
In fact they begin to accelerate at one month of age.
One explanation could be that this is just a delay in deaths.
Perhaps the United States is simply better at keeping these babies alive a little while longer than other countries are.
Differences are seen all the way to one year, though, making this unlikely.
This difference also doesnt appear to be because of race.
A sub-analysis that excluded blacks from the sample still found a similar postneonatal mortality disadvantage in the United States.
Racial differences may be more applicable to neonatal mortality.
Deaths in the postneonatal period are due, in large part, to sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), sudden death and accidents.
Moreover, they seem to occur disproportionately in poor women.
Its not clear that health care is what might reduce deaths in this group.
That doesnt mean theres nothing we can do.
It might even be cost-effective to try.
The authors of this paper estimated how much we might consider spending.
They calculated that decreasing postneonatal mortality to that of comparable European countries might lower the death rate by 1 in 1,000.
Assuming a standard value of $7 million per life, it might make sense to spend $7,000 per infant.
That might seem like a lot of money, but its not out of the realm of what we spend on many other medical interventions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What exactly we might do with that money is up for debate.
One suggestion made by the authors, with which I agree, is that we consider programs of home nursing visits to reduce the incidence of SIDS and accidents.
But some things do seem evident.
The first is that our constant calls for improved and more prenatal care may not significantly improve our disadvantage in infant mortality.
The second is that spending a significant amount of money on poor women to improve the health of their 1-month to 1-year-olds might not only save lives; it might be cost-effective, too.
One reader acknowledged the appeal of being able to play with ones great-great-grandchildren.
But how in blazes am I supposed to be able to afford to live that long?
asked FJP in Philadelphia.
If the answer is I would have to work to age 85 so I can afford to make it to 120 or beyond, Im not sure Im going to sign up for that.
Still, a number of readers found the study intriguing.
Im not sure how I feel about the idea of a drug to make people live longer, but Im puzzled by all the comments against it, Al Maki from Burnaby, British Columbia, said.
Im 66, and I exercise regularly and pay attention to my diet in the hope that I will live longer and healthier.
Many people do this and many others wish they had the self-discipline.
Im surprised so many people think this is a selfish goal.
Its seems quite normal to me.
Patrick, from Chicago, agreed: Why, oh why, are so many people commenting that were somehow meant to live a finite life span, and that we should just deal with it, and not try to find ways to extend our life?
I say thats ridiculous.
I enjoy my life, and if I could have an extra couple decades, during which Id be healthy, Id be thrilled.
So, I suspect, would many of the naysaying commenters, if actually given the option.
Another reader put the current research into historical context.
Its not about living forever, David Bird from Victoria, British Columbia, explained.
Its about a holistic approach to dealing with age-related illnesses, such as Alzheimers and many cancers.
For those who dismiss or condemn it, life expectancy, at birth, for a white American male rose from 47 to 75 from 1900 to 2000.
For black males it rose from 33 to 68.
You dont think this is unnatural because it is our norm, but it wasnt the norm for our great-grandparents.
If the results found for the mice could be replicated in humans, wed live only 12 percent longer, less than 10 years, but our last years would be healthier, putting much less strain on ourselves, our families, and our medical resources.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Wendy from Wyoming added: I work very closely with individuals who are trying to navigate the Social Security disability process, most of whom are 45-64 years old.
During the most productive time of their financial lives, they are literally impoverished by diseases of early aging  early heart disease, advanced osteoarthritis, early cancer.
I strongly support any treatment which will keep people productive and out of nursing facilities until their 80s and 90s.
Everyone talks about the nature of aging, but one of the truths about the human condition is that we already cheated nature many times over our evolutionary development.
The first hack occurred when the human species was able to grow old enough to transmit valuable survival information from grandparent to grandchild, which corresponded to a dramatic improvement in human survival.
Perhaps the most passionate voices, though, came from readers completely unconcerned about human life span.
Not sure I want to live forever, but my dog?
exclaimed Brian from Montana.
I dont want to live longer, but if dogs could live longer that would be wonderful, a reader named Mary mused.
Beloved dogs are too soon gone from our lives.
The heck with human research  I just want my dogs to live longer, Durt from Los Angeles said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A reader whose dog was among the 40 studied chimed in.
My dog Rascal is featured in the article, and Ive been thrilled with the results of the clinical trial, Rose and Rascal wrote from Seattle.
This drug made Rascals heart beat more efficiently again like it did when he was a younger dog.
Hes happier and friendlier and has more energy.
If it buys me an extra year or two with my big dog  who will not live as long as smaller dogs  then Ill take it.
One thing which did not make it into the article: Rascal is my service dog, as I am disabled.
Rascal is the love of my life, and I have worked hard his entire life to ensure he get high quality food, lots of exercise, and rigorous training to make him the healthiest and happiest dog he can be.
Getting an assist from science nearly 10 years later is a BONUS.
Finally, Concerned Citizen from Anywheresville gave voice to the issues inherent in prolonging either canine or human life.
I lost my dearest and most beloved heart dog four years ago, she explained.
I loved her so much, I would have done literally anything legal or safe to keep her with me a few more years.
If I had the resources, I would have had her cloned.
I was nearly crazy with grief at the loss.
But  if she had not died, the dog I have now would have probably died in a shelter.
As it was, she was waiting for eight months and running out of time, and going kennel crazy.
She was older, and overweight; nobody wanted her.
I wouldnt have gotten a second dog.
So this dog would have died, had my other dog lived.
She added: See?
it is all a cycle and it is all connected.
Is there meaning and purpose behind this?
A grand design?
I guess I wont know myself until the end.
Bathed in a nutrient-rich broth suffused with growth factors, the cells will double and redouble in an incubator over the course of the following two weeks, forming a lush outgrowth of malignant cells  cancer abstracted in a dish.
A computer, taught to count and evaluate cells, will then determine whether any of the drugs killed the cancerous cells or forced them to mature into nearly normal blood.
Far from relying on data from other trials, or patients, the experiment will test Donnas own cancer for its reactivity against a panel of medicines.
Cells, not bodies, entered this preclinical trial, and the results will guide her future treatment.
I explained all this to Donna.
Still, she had a question: What would happen if the drug that appeared to be the most promising proved unsuccessful?
Then well try the next one, I told her.
The experiment, hopefully, will yield more than one candidate, and well go down the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Will the medicine be like chemotherapy?
It might, or it might not.
The drug that we end up using might be borrowed from some other disease.
It might be an anti-inflammatory pill, or an asthma drug.
It might be aspirin, for all we know.
My conversation with Donna reflected how much cancer treatment has changed in the last decade.
I grew up as an oncologist in an era of standardized protocols.
Cancers were lumped into categories based on their anatomical site of origin (breast cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, leukemia), and chemotherapy treatment, often a combination of toxic drugs, was dictated by those anatomical classifications.
The combinations  Adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine, for instance, to treat Hodgkins disease  were rarely changed for individual patients.
The prospect of personalizing therapy was frowned upon: The more you departed from the standard, the theory ran, the more likely the patient would end up being undertreated or improperly managed, risking recurrence.
In hospitals and clinics, computerized systems were set up to monitor an oncologists compliance with standard therapy.
If you chose to make an exception for a particular patient, you had to justify the choice with an adequate excuse.
Big Chemo was watching you.
I memorized the abbreviated names of combination chemo  the first letter of each drug  for my board exams, and I spouted them back to my patients during my clinic hours.
There was something magical and shamanic about the multiletter contractions.
They were mantras imbued with promise and peril: A.B.V.D.
for Hodgkins, C.M.F.
for breast cancer, B.E.P.
for testicular cancer.
The lingo of chemotherapists was like a secret code or handshake; even the capacity to call such baleful poisons by name made me feel powerful.
When my patients asked me for statistical data, I had numbers at my fingertips.
I could summon the precise chance of survival, the probability of relapse, the chance that the chemo would make them infertile or cause them to lose their hair.
I felt omniscient.
Yet as I spoke to Donna that morning, I realized how much that omniscience has begun to wane  unleashing a more experimental or even artisanal approach in oncology.
Most cancer patients are still treated with those hoary standardized protocols, still governed by the anatomical lumping of cancer.
But for patients like Donna, for whom the usual treatments fail to work, oncologists must use their knowledge, wit and imagination to devise individualized therapies.
Increasingly, we are approaching each patient as a unique problem to solve.
Toxic, indiscriminate, cell-killing drugs have given way to nimbler, finer-fingered molecules that can activate or deactivate complex pathways in cells, cut off growth factors, accelerate or decelerate the immune response or choke the supply of nutrients and oxygen.
More and more, we must come up with ways to use drugs as precision tools to jam cogs and turn off selective switches in particular cancer cells.
Trained to follow rules, oncologists are now being asked to reinvent them.
The thought that every individual cancer might require a specific individualized treatment can be profoundly unsettling.
Michael Lerner, a writer who worked with cancer patients, once likened the experience of being diagnosed with cancer to being parachuted out of a plane without a map or compass; now it is the oncologist who feels parachuted onto a strange landscape, with no idea which way to go.
There are often no previous probabilities, and even fewer certainties.
The stakes feel higher, the successes more surprising and the failures more personal.
Earlier, I could draw curtain upon curtain of blame around a patient.
When she did not respond to chemotherapy, it was her fault: She failed.
Now if I cannot find a tool in the growing kit of drugs to target a cancers vulnerabilities, the vector feels reversed: It is the doctor who has failed.
Yet the mapless moment that we are now in may also hold more promise for patients than any that has come before  even if we find the known world shifting under our feet.
We no longer have to treat cancer only with the blunt response of standard protocols, in which the disease is imagined as a uniform, if faceless, opponent.
Instead we are trying to assess the particular personality and temperament of an individual illness, so that we can tailor a response with extreme precision.
Its the idiosyncratic mind of each cancer that we are so desperately trying to capture.
Cancer  and its treatment  once seemed simpler.
In December 1969, a group of cancer advocates led by the philanthropist Mary Lasker splashed their demand for a national war on cancer in a full-page ad in The New York Times: Mr. Nixon: You Can Cure Cancer.
This epitomized the fantasy of a single solution to a single monumental illness.
For a while, the centerpiece of that solution was thought to be surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, a strategy colloquially known as slash and burn.
Using combination chemotherapy, men and women were dragged to the very brink of physiological tolerability but then pulled back just in time to send the cancer, but not its host, careering off the edge.
Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, tens of thousands of people took part in clinical trials, which compared subjects on standard chemo combinations with others administered slightly different combinations of those drugs.
Some responded well, but for many others, relapses and recurrences were routine  and gains were small and incremental for most cancers.
Few efforts were made to distinguish the patients; instead, when the promised cures for most advanced malignancies failed to appear, the doses were intensified and doubled.
In the Margaret Edson play Wit, an English professor who had ovarian cancer recalled the bewildering language of those trials by making up nonsensical names for chemotherapy drugs that had been pumped into her body: I have survived eight treatments of hexamethophosphacil and vinplatin at the full dose, ladies and gentlemen.
I have broken the record.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To be fair, important lessons were garnered from the trials.
Using combinations of chemotherapy, we learned to treat particular cancers: aggressive lymphomas and some variants of breast, testicular and colon cancers.
But for most men and women with cancer, the clinical achievements were abysmal disappointments.
Records were not broken  but patients were.
A breakthrough came in the 2000s, soon after the Human Genome Project, when scientists learned to sequence the genomes of cancer cells.
Cancer is, of course, a genetic disease at its core.
In cancer cells, mutated genes corrupt the normal physiology of growth and ultimately set loose malignant proliferation.
This characteristic sits at the heart of all forms of cancer: Unlike normal cells, cancer cells have forgotten how to stop dividing (or occasionally, have forgotten how to die).
But once we could sequence tens of thousands of genes in individual cancer specimens, it became clear that uniqueness dominates.
Say two identical-looking breast cancers arise at the same moment in identical twins; are the mutations themselves in the two cancers identical?
Its unlikely: By sequencing the mutations in one twins breast cancer, we might find, say, 74 mutated genes (of the roughly 22,000 total genes in humans).
In her sisters, we might find 42 mutations, and if we looked at a third, unrelated woman with breast cancer, we might find 18.
Among the three cases, there might be a mere five genes that overlap.
The rest are mutations particular to each womans cancer.
Photo

No other human disease is known to possess this degree of genetic heterogeneity.
Adult-onset diabetes, for example, is a complex genetic disease, but it appears to be dominated by variations in only about a dozen genes.
Cancer, by contrast, has potentially unlimited variations.
Like faces, like fingerprints  like selves  every cancer is characterized by its distinctive marks: a set of individual scars stamped on an individual genome.
The iconic illness of the 20th century seems to reflect our cultures obsession with individuality.
If each individual cancer has an individual combination of gene mutations, perhaps this variability explains the extraordinary divergences in responses to treatment.
Gene sequencing allows us to identify the genetic changes that are particular to a given cancer.
We can use that information to guide cancer treatment  in effect, matching the treatment to an individual patients cancer.
Many of the remarkable successes of cancer treatments of the last decades are instances of drugs that were matched to the singular vulnerabilities of individual cancers.
The drug Gleevec, for instance, can kill leukemia cells  but only if the patients cancer cells happen to carry a gene mutation called BCR-ABL.
Tarceva, a targeted therapy for lung cancer, works powerfully if the patients cancer cells happen to possess a particular mutant form of a gene; for lung-cancer patients lacking that mutation, it may be no different from taking a placebo.
Because the medicines target mutations or behaviors that are specific to cancer cells (but not normal cells), many of these drugs have surprisingly minimal toxicities  a far cry from combination chemotherapies of the past.
A few days after Donnas visit to the clinic, I went to my weekly meeting with Raza on the ninth floor of the hospital.
The patient that morning was K.C., a 79-year-old woman with blood cancer.
Raza has been following her disease  and keeping her alive  for a decade.
Her tumor is evolving into acute leukemia, Raza said.
This, too, is a distinctive behavior of some cancers that we can now witness using biopsies, CT scans and powerful new techniques like gene sequencing: We can see the cancers morphing from smoldering variants into more aggressive types before our eyes.
Was the tumor sequenced?
I asked.
Yes, theres a sequence, Raza said, as we leaned toward a screen to examine it.
P53, DNMT3a and Tet2, she read from the list of mutant genes.
And a deletion in Chromosome 5.
In K.C.s cancer, an entire segment of the genome had been lopped off and gone missing  one of the crudest mutations that a tumor can acquire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How about ATRA?
I asked.
We had treated a few patients carrying some of K.C.s mutations with this drug and noted a few striking responses.
Id rather try Revlimid, but at a higher dose.
Shes responded to it in the past, and the mutations remain the same.
I have a hunch that it might work.
In the years following his breakthrough, Warburg became convinced that the Warburg effect occurs because cells are unable to use oxygen properly and that this damaged respiration is, in effect, the starting point of cancer.
Well into the 1950s, this theory  which Warburg believed in until his death in 1970 but never proved  remained an important subject of debate within the field.
And then, more quickly than anyone could have anticipated, the debate ended.
In 1953, James Watson and Francis Crick pieced together the structure of the DNA molecule and set the stage for the triumph of molecular biologys gene-centered approach to cancer.
In the following decades, scientists came to regard cancer as a disease governed by mutated genes, which drive cells into a state of relentless division and proliferation.
The metabolic catalysts that Warburg spent his career analyzing began to be referred to as housekeeping enzymes  necessary to keep a cell going but largely irrelevant to the deeper story of cancer.
It was a stampede, says Thomas Seyfried, a biologist at Boston College, of the move to molecular biology.
Warburg was dropped like a hot potato.
There was every reason to think that Warburg would remain at best a footnote in the history of cancer research.
(As Dominic DAgostino, an associate professor at the University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine, told me, The book that my students have to use for their cancer biology course has no mention of cancer metabolism.)
But over the past decade, and the past five years in particular, something unexpected happened: Those housekeeping enzymes have again become one of the most promising areas of cancer research.
Scientists now wonder if metabolism could prove to be the long-sought Achilles heel of cancer, a common weak point in a disease that manifests itself in so many different forms.
There are typically many mutations in a single cancer.
But there are a limited number of ways that the body can produce energy and support rapid growth.
Cancer cells rely on these fuels in a way that healthy cells dont.
The hope of scientists at the forefront of the Warburg revival is that they will be able to slow  or even stop  tumors by disrupting one or more of the many chemical reactions a cell uses to proliferate, and, in the process, starve cancer cells of the nutrients they desperately need to grow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Even James Watson, one of the fathers of molecular biology, is convinced that targeting metabolism is a more promising avenue in current cancer research than gene-centered approaches.
At his office at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in Long Island, Watson, 88, sat beneath one of the original sketches of the DNA molecule and told me that locating the genes that cause cancer has been remarkably unhelpful  the belief that sequencing your DNA is going to extend your life a cruel illusion.
If he were going into cancer research today, Watson said, he would study biochemistry rather than molecular biology.
I never thought, until about two months ago, Id ever have to learn the Krebs cycle, he said, referring to the reactions, familiar to most high-school biology students, by which a cell powers itself.
Now I realize I have to.
Born in 1883 into the illustrious Warburg family, Otto Warburg was raised to be a science prodigy.
His father, Emil, was one of Germanys leading physicists, and many of the worlds greatest physicists and chemists, including Albert Einstein and Max Planck, were friends of the family.
(When Warburg enlisted in the military during World War I, Einstein sent him a letter urging him to come home for the sake of science.)
Those men had explained the mysteries of the universe with a handful of fundamental laws, and the young Warburg came to believe he could bring that same elegant simplicity and clarity to the workings of life.
Long before his death, Warburg was considered perhaps the greatest biochemist of the 20th century, a man whose research was vital to our understanding not only of cancer but also of respiration and photosynthesis.
In 1931 he won the Nobel Prize for his work on respiration, and he was considered for the award on two other occasions  each time for a different discovery.
Records indicate that he would have won in 1944, had the Nazis not forbidden the acceptance of the Nobel by German citizens.
That Warburg was able to live in Germany and continue his research throughout World War II, despite having Jewish ancestry and most likely being gay, speaks to the German obsession with cancer in the first half of the 20th century.
At the time, cancer was more prevalent in Germany than in almost any other nation.
According to the Stanford historian Robert Proctor, by the 1920s Germanys escalating cancer rates had become a major scandal.
A number of top Nazis, including Hitler, are believed to have harbored a particular dread of the disease; Hitler and Joseph Goebbels took the time to discuss new advances in cancer research in the hours leading up to the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union.
Whether Hitler was personally aware of Warburgs research is unknown, but one of Warburgs former colleagues wrote that several sources told him that Hitlers entourage became convinced that Warburg was the only scientist who offered a serious hope of producing a cure for cancer one day.
Although many Jewish scientists fled Germany during the 1930s, Warburg chose to remain.
According to his biographer, the Nobel Prize-winning biochemist Hans Krebs, who worked in Warburgs lab, science was the dominant emotion of Warburgs adult life, virtually subjugating all other emotions.
In Krebss telling, Warburg spent years building a small team of specially trained technicians who knew how to run his experiments, and he feared that his mission to defeat cancer would be set back significantly if he had to start over.
But after the war, Warburg fired all the technicians, suspecting that they had reported his criticisms of the Third Reich to the Gestapo.
Warburgs reckless decision to stay in Nazi Germany most likely came down to his astonishing ego.
(Upon learning he had won the Nobel Prize, Warburgs response was, Its high time.)
Modesty was not a virtue of Otto Warburg, says George Klein, a 90-year-old cancer researcher at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden.
As a young man, Klein was asked to send cancer cells to Warburgs lab.
A number of years later, Kleins boss approached Warburg for a recommendation on Kleins behalf.
George Klein has made a very important contribution to cancer research, Warburg wrote.
He has sent me the cells with which I have solved the cancer problem.
Klein also recalls the lecture Warburg gave in Stockholm in 1950 at the 50th anniversary of the Nobel Prize.
Warburg drew four diagrams on a blackboard explaining the Warburg effect, and then told the members of the audience that they represented all that they needed to know about the biochemistry of cancer.
Share Your Story Have you or someone you love had experience with the new science of cancer?
We want to hear from you.
Warburg was so monumentally stubborn that he refused to use the word mitochondria, even after it had been widely accepted as the name for the tiny structures that power cells.
Instead Warburg persisted in calling them grana, the term he came up with when he identified those structures as the site of cellular respiration.
Few things would have been more upsetting to him than the thought of Nazi thugs chasing him out of the beautiful Berlin institute, modeled after a country manor and built specifically for him.
After the war, the Russians approached Warburg and offered to erect a new institute in Moscow.
Klein recalls that Warburg told them with great pride that both Hitler and Stalin had failed to move him.
As Warburg explained to his sister: Ich war vor Hitler da  I was here before Hitler.
Imagine two engines, the one being driven by complete and the other by incomplete combustion of coal, Warburg wrote in 1956, responding to a criticism of his hypothesis that cancer is a problem of energy.
A man who knows nothing at all about engines, their structure and their purpose may discover the difference.
He may, for example, smell it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The complete combustion, in Warburgs analogy, is respiration.
The incomplete combustion, turning nutrients into energy without oxygen, is known as fermentation.
Fermentation provides a useful backup when oxygen cant reach cells quickly enough to keep up with demand.
(Our muscle cells turn to fermentation during intense exercise.)
Warburg thought that defects prevent cancer cells from being able to use respiration, but scientists now widely agree that this is wrong.
A growing tumor can be thought of as a construction site, and as todays researchers explain it, the Warburg effect opens the gates for more and more trucks to deliver building materials (in the form of glucose molecules) to make daughter cells.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
If this theory can explain the why of the Warburg effect, it still leaves the more pressing question of what, exactly, sets a cell on the path to the Warburg effect and cancer.
Scientists at several of the nations top cancer hospitals have spearheaded the Warburg revival, in hopes of finding the answer.
These researchers, typically molecular biologists by training, have turned to metabolism and the Warburg effect because their own research led each of them to the same conclusion: A number of the cancer-causing genes that have long been known for their role in cell division also regulate cells consumption of nutrients.
Craig Thompson, the president and chief executive of the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, has been among the most outspoken proponents of this renewed focus on metabolism.
In Thompsons analogy, the Warburg effect can be thought of as a social failure: a breakdown of the nutrient-sharing agreement that single-celled organisms signed when they joined forces to become multicellular organisms.
His research showed that cells need to receive instructions from other cells to eat, just as they require instructions from other cells to divide.
Thompson hypothesized that if he could identify the mutations that lead a cell to eat more glucose than it should, it would go a long way toward explaining how the Warburg effect and cancer begin.
But Thompsons search for those mutations didnt lead to an entirely new discovery.
Instead, it led him to AKT, a gene already well known to molecular biologists for its role in promoting cell division.
Thompson now believes AKT plays an even more fundamental role in metabolism.
The protein created by AKT is part of a chain of signaling proteins that is mutated in up to 80 percent of all cancers.
Thompson says that once these proteins go into overdrive, a cell no longer worries about signals from other cells to eat; it instead stuffs itself with glucose.
Thompson discovered he could induce the full Warburg effect simply by placing an activated AKT protein into a normal cell.
When that happens, Thompson says, the cells begin to do what every single-celled organism will do in the presence of food: eat as much as it can and make as many copies of itself as possible.
When Thompson presents his research to high-school students, he shows them a slide of mold spreading across a piece of bread.
The slides heading  Everyones first cancer experiment  recalls Warburgs observation that cancer cells will carry out fermentation at almost the same rate of wildly growing yeasts.
Just as Thompson has redefined the role of AKT, Chi Van Dang, director of the Abramson Cancer Center at the University of Pennsylvania, has helped lead the cancer world to an appreciation of how one widely studied gene can profoundly influence a tumors metabolism.
In 1997, Dang became one of the first scientists to connect molecular biology to the science of cellular metabolism when he demonstrated that MYC  a so-called regulator gene well known for its role in cell proliferation  directly targets an enzyme that can turn on the Warburg effect.
Dang recalls that other researchers were skeptical of his interest in a housekeeping enzyme, but he stuck with it because he came to appreciate something critical: Cancer cells cant stop eating.
Unlike healthy cells, growing cancer cells are missing the internal feedback loops that are designed to conserve resources when food isnt available.
Theyre addicted to nutrients, Dang says; when they cant consume enough, they begin to die.
The addiction to nutrients explains why changes to metabolic pathways are so common and tend to arise first as a cell progresses toward cancer: Its not that other types of alterations cant arise first, but rather that, when they do, the incipient tumors lack the access to the nutrients they need to grow.
Dang uses the analogy of a work crew trying to put up a building.
If you dont have enough cement, and you try to put a lot of bricks together, youre going to collapse, he says.
Photo

Metabolism-centered therapies have produced some tantalizing successes.
Agios Pharmaceuticals, a company co-founded by Thompson, is now testing a drug that treats cases of acute myelogenous leukemia that have been resistant to other therapies by inhibiting the mutated versions of the metabolic enzyme IDH 2.
In clinical trials of the Agios drug, nearly 40 percent of patients who carry these mutations are experiencing at least partial remissions.
Researchers working in a lab run by Peter Pedersen, a professor of biochemistry at Johns Hopkins, discovered that a compound known as 3-bromopyruvate can block energy production in cancer cells and, at least in rats and rabbits, wipe out advanced liver cancer.
(Trials of the drug have yet to begin.)
At Penn, Dang and his colleagues are now trying to block multiple metabolic pathways at the same time.
In mice, this two-pronged approach has been able to shrink some tumors without debilitating side effects.
Dang says the hope is not necessarily to find a cure but rather to keep cancer at bay in a smoldering quiet state, much as patients treat their hypertension.
Warburg, too, appreciated that a tumors dependence upon a steady flow of nutrients might eventually prove to be its fatal weakness.
Long after his initial discovery of the Warburg effect, he continued to research the enzymes involved in fermentation and to explore the possibility of blocking the process in cancer cells.
The challenge Warburg faced then is the same one that metabolism researchers face today: Cancer is an incredibly persistent foe.
Blocking one metabolic pathway has been shown to slow down and even stop tumor growth in some cases, but tumors tend to find another way.
You block glucose, they use glutamine, Dang says, in reference to another primary fuel used by cancers.
You block glucose and glutamine, they might be able to use fatty acids.
We dont know yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Given Warburgs own story of historical neglect, its fitting that what may turn out to be one of the most promising cancer metabolism drugs has been sitting in plain sight for decades.
That drug, metformin, is already widely prescribed to decrease the glucose in the blood of diabetics (76.9 million metformin prescriptions were filled in the United States in 2014).
In the years ahead, its likely to be used to treat  or at least to prevent  some cancers.
Because metformin can influence a number of metabolic pathways, the precise mechanism by which it achieves its anticancer effects remains a source of debate.
But the results of numerous epidemiological studies have been striking.
Diabetics taking metformin seem to be significantly less likely to develop cancer than diabetics who dont  and significantly less likely to die from the disease when they do.
Near the end of his life, Warburg grew obsessed with his diet.
He believed that most cancer was preventable and thought that chemicals added to food and used in agriculture could cause tumors by interfering with respiration.
He stopped eating bread unless it was baked in his own home.
He would drink milk only if it came from a special herd of cows, and used a centrifuge at his lab to make his cream and butter.
Warburgs personal diet is unlikely to become a path to prevention.
But the Warburg revival has allowed researchers to develop a hypothesis for how the diets that are linked to our obesity and diabetes epidemics  specifically, sugar-heavy diets that can result in permanently elevated levels of the hormone insulin  may also be driving cells to the Warburg effect and cancer.
The insulin hypothesis can be traced to the research of Lewis Cantley, the director of the Meyer Cancer Center at Weill Cornell Medical College.
In the 1980s, Cantley discovered how insulin, which is released by the pancreas and tells cells to take up glucose, influences what happens inside a cell.
Cantley now refers to insulin and a closely related hormone, IGF-1 (insulinlike growth factor 1), as the champion activators of metabolic proteins linked to cancer.
Hes beginning to see evidence, he says, that in some cases, it really is insulin itself thats getting the tumor started.
One way to think about the Warburg effect, says Cantley, is as the insulin, or IGF-1, signaling pathway gone awry  its cells behaving as though insulin were telling it to take up glucose all the time and to grow.
Cantley, who avoids eating sugar as much as he can, is currently studying the effects of diet on mice that have the mutations that are commonly found in colorectal and other cancers.
He says that the effects of a sugary diet on colorectal, breast and other cancer models looks very impressive and rather scary.
Elevated insulin is also strongly associated with obesity, which is expected soon to overtake smoking as the leading cause of preventable cancer.
Cancers linked to obesity and diabetes have more receptors for insulin and IGF-1, and people with defective IGF-1 receptors appear to be nearly immune to cancer.
Retrospective studies, which look back at patient histories, suggest that many people who develop colorectal, pancreatic or breast cancer have elevated insulin levels before diagnosis.
Its perhaps not entirely surprising, then, that when researchers want to grow breast-cancer cells in the lab, they add insulin to the tissue culture.
When they remove the insulin, the cancer cells die.
I think theres no doubt that insulin is pro-cancer, Watson says, with respect to the link between obesity, diabetes and cancer.
Its as good a hypothesis as we have now.
Watson takes metformin for cancer prevention; among its many effects, metformin works to lower insulin levels.
Not every cancer researcher, however, is convinced of the role of insulin and IGF-1 in cancer.
Robert Weinberg, a researcher at M.I.T.s Whitehead Institute who pioneered the discovery of cancer-causing genes in the 80s, has remained somewhat cool to certain aspects of the cancer-metabolism revival.
Weinberg says that there isnt yet enough evidence to know whether the levels of insulin and IGF-1 present in obese people are sufficient to trigger the Warburg effect.
Its a hypothesis, Weinberg says.
I dont know if its right or wrong.
During Warburgs lifetime, insulins effects on metabolic pathways were even less well understood.
But given his ego, its highly unlikely that he would have considered the possibility that anything other than damaged respiration could cause cancer.
He died sure that he was right about the disease.
Warburg framed a quote from Max Planck and hung it above his desk: A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die.
Once Andrews illness was diagnosed, he needed a bone-marrow transplant as swiftly as possible.
First the doctors had to kill the leukemic cells in Andrews bone marrow with chemotherapy, then replace them with a donors cells.
Andrews 3-year-old sister, Lea, and his 5-year-old brother, Wills, were tested, and in the familys first bit of luck since the diagnosis, Wills turned out to be a perfect donor match.
Andrew underwent two rounds of chemotherapy, but there were still traces of cancer when the transplant was performed in February 2015, putting the outcome at high risk of failure.
The Levys had created a Lotsa Helping Hands website, where friends signed up to host play dates or deliver meals (as did our family because our children were in the same school as Wills), and a Facebook group for updates on Andrews illness, which 1,700 people joined.
But despite all the support, Esther felt deeply alone with the experience, she says.
Her former life had vanished: She was living in Andrews hospital room, sleeping on a sofa that opened into a hard bed.
She had left her job and the rest of her family while Dan continued to work and live at home with Wills and Lea.
Her nights were punctured by Andrews cries; her days were spent frantically trying to distract him from his pain and nausea, cleaning up his vomit, holding him down during blood draws and making stressful medical decisions.
He screamed if she left him for a few minutes, even to use the bathroom or shower.
After Esther and Andrew spent three months in the hospital, the entire family moved into a nearby apartment, in order to live in a smaller space they could keep immaculately clean while waiting for Andrews new immune system to develop.
Esther remained Andrews full-time nurse, responsible for a dizzyingly complex regimen of medications and sterile changes of the IV.
A bone-marrow test that April showed no traces of cancer, and Andrew was considered to be in remission.
They posted videos of him banging on his drums and singing with his toy Elmo and pretending to play golf.
They decided that when Andrew was well enough, they would not return to their old home but begin a new life.
They found a house in the nearby town of Atherton in the style of an English country manor, encircled by hedges and white rose bushes, that suggested privacy and safety.
Andrew was too vulnerable to leave the apartment, so Esther could not go to see the house in person, but they bought it anyway, and she made plans with a decorator friend to create an airplane-themed room for Andrew.
But on June 19, the medical team told Esther and Dan that there was bad news again: Andrews cancer had returned.
The number of cells was small but would inevitably grow, the doctors explained.
The team presented a new plan: They would begin chemotherapy again in preparation for a second bone-marrow transplant, perhaps using cord blood this time.
Oh, God, Esther said, putting her head in her hands.
She felt she could not go through it all again.
And there was no reason to think it would work.
The odds of success during the first transplant had been long; in a second attempt, they would be much more so.
But the odds that it would cause all of us more suffering were 100 percent, she told me.
From the initial diagnosis, Dan had determined that their goal was not simply to help Andrew survive but to keep the family intact.
To choose to move back into the hospital, where they believed Andrew would die, was a fundamental violation of every promise we made to ourselves and our kids that we would be together again, he told me.
He felt the family had just started to heal from the months of separation.
The emotional scars of the experience, he said, would be irreparable if we ripped them open and split our family apart again.
They decided to stop treatment.
They would move to their new house, where Andrew would spend whatever time he had splashing in their swimming pool and playing in the grass with Wills and Lea.
Share Your Story Have you or someone you love had experience with the new science of cancer?
We want to hear from you.
The doctors were stunned.
We love you, and we love Andrew and were not ready to give up, Jennifer Willert, the pediatric oncologist in charge of the transplant, blurted out.
Lacayo and Willert argued for at least trying some palliative chemotherapy to prolong Andrews life.
Esther and Dan hesitated but ultimately declined.
They called their decorator friend and told her to return the furniture for Andrews new room.
She was one of the first people to whom they told the news: Andrew was going to die.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Levys posted the news of their decision on June 22.
They explained their thinking and asked their friends not to question their choices, recommend new treatment options, tell them about Gods plan or insist that there was hope.
I truly believe that I have a new way of looking at parenting  it is not about the length of life that matters, but the quality of life, Esther wrote.
We are going to focus on quality.
But quality time with a doomed child turned out to be impossible.
The cancer cells were few enough that they were not yet making Andrew sick, but, Esther posted, I cant think of anything more painful than spending time with your precious baby knowing that he is going to die soon.
Parenting is teleological; parents rear a child to become an adult.
What were their goals for Andrew now?
I am no longer raising him to grow up to be a wonderful human being, Esther wrote.
Should she let him eat junk food or watch videos on the iPad all day?
Did it matter?
Their older kids asked tormenting questions.
Lea wanted to know whether they could buy Andrew a certain toy when he was 4 years old like her.
Wills wanted to know why they had Andrew if they knew he was going to be sick all the time.
Dan read them Mo Willemss book Waiting Is Not Easy!
about an impatient elephant.
As he read, he thought about the waiting that had engulfed them over the previous nine months.
They had waited to get the right diagnosis; they had waited 100 days for the transplanted cells to grow; they had waited for the results from the bone-marrow tests to see if the cancer was gone.
Now there are no more diagnoses, Dan wrote on Facebook.
No more tests.
And no more milestones.
But there is waiting.
Maybe hours, or days, or weeks.
This was the most agonizing of all: the wait for Andrews death.
On July 1, they moved into their new house, and Andrew became sick.
By the holiday weekend, he was moaning or screaming in pain whenever he was awake.
Dan took a leave of absence from work.
Esther held Andrew at all times, his body draped over hers on the couch or the bed.
Dan took food to her because she couldnt hold him and sit up at the dinner table.
Her hair began to fall out because of the stress.
It was unbearable for him and for us, she says.
Photo

The hospice team began to come every day to try to control the pain with high doses of opioids.
Harvey Cohen, an oncologist and the medical director of the hospitals palliative-care program, explained to them that as the disease progressed, Andrew would not have enough platelets for his blood to clot.
A hospice nurse told them to buy dark towels for Andrews crib, so that if he started to bleed uncontrollably, the sight would be less frightening for his siblings and for them.
During the second week of July, the hospice team told them to prepare for Andrews imminent death.
They called a rabbi, and thinking about how Andrew loved airplanes, they picked a Jewish cemetery near the airport.
Not wanting him to be buried alone, they purchased grave sites for themselves as well.
They established an Andrew Levy Memorial Fund to raise money for music therapy at the Lucile Packard Childrens Hospital.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The members of their medical team visited their home to say goodbye.
Andrew had stopped eating.
He was barely moving, his breathing raspy and his complexion sallow, with the particular look the team knew from other dying children.
Sometimes he stopped breathing momentarily, and his body would become rigid, and his face turn blue.
Its O.K.
for you to go, Esther told him.
All she wanted now was for this to end quickly.
They called Wills and Lea into the living room  a room the kids rarely entered.
Esther pulled them close to her on the couch, and Dan sat on a cushion on the floor.
They had rehearsed what they were going to say with Barbara Sourkes, a hospital psychiatrist with whom they had grown close, and they made an audio recording of this moment in case they needed to discuss it with her later.
Dan told the children that the transplant had been a success, and that Willss cells had done a great job, but that Andrews cells needed to work on their own at some point, and they werent.
His body is just not working, he said, as straightforwardly as he could manage.
Is Andrew going to get better?
Wills asked.
The doctors dont think so, Wills.
Sourkes had advised them to tell the children only what they needed to know so as not to overwhelm them, because the children needed emotional space to process things their own way.
So Andrew  Andrew is going to die at some point, Dan said.
We dont know when.
Photo

I dont like that Andrew is going to die!
Lea exclaimed and started crying.
Wills pulled the hood of his sweatshirt over his face and said he didnt want to talk about it.
Andrew is going to die, so that means we are only going to have four people in our family, Lea said unhappily.
She asked if they could get a new baby to replace Andrew, and she and Wills began to fantasize about a new baby who would make everything all better.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Esther returned to Andrew.
I promise, I promise you, we are not going to forget him, she said.
You are always going to have a brother named Andrew because he is always your brother, now and forever.
Andrews pieces of love will always be in our heart, Lea said, and then they all agreed to watch Mickey Mouse together.
The vigil stretched on through the summer, and what they called mirages began to appear.
In late July, Esther was sitting outside with Barbara Sourkes, holding Andrew and watching Wills shoot baskets.
Suddenly Andrew sat up and reached for a ball and managed to throw it through his own little basketball hoop.
Esther and Barbara were speechless.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At first the mirages were brief  Andrew would laugh when Lea showed him her bellybutton or would stack blocks for 10 minutes  and then he would lapse back into pained lethargy for the rest of the day.
But soon these episodes began to lengthen.
For Esther, the mirages did not feel like miracles but evil tricks.
She went through intense surges of anger.
I felt like, How many trials are we going to have to endure?
she says.
Are we being spared nothing?
Photo

Esther started sending the medical team videos.
Andrew is eating pizza, Andrew is sitting up, Andrew is laughing, Lacayo, their oncologist, recounts.
And we are like, What?
In August, as the team struggled to account for what was happening, they theorized that in July, when everyone assumed Andrew was dying of cancer, he must have had a terrible infection instead, which passed.
It didnt change the prognosis: The doctors stressed that, while Andrew might continue to recover from that infection as his new immune system took hold, the cancer cells were also growing and would eventually overwhelm him.
After a blood test showed that his platelets were low, Cohen, the palliative-care doctor, urged them to accept transfusions to increase Andrews platelets so that, even though he was going to die, it would not be from bleeding to death.
But at the hospital, it turned out, mysteriously, that Andrew had more platelets than at his last blood test, so there was no need for a transfusion that day.
When Dan suggested giving him vitamins, Esther snapped at him.
He seemed to be taking the anomalous blood test to mean Andrew was getting better, when, she says, I had no hope, and I needed not to have hope in order to function.
And then they both apologized.
In September, Andrew began to walk again, and his appetite and energy and dark curls grew.
Dan decided to return to work.
Andrew turned 2  a birthday his parents had never thought he would reach and knew would be his last.
Esther recalls how friends urged them to enjoy every moment, and how she would tell them: No, this is hell, and it sucks.
He is still going to die, so there is nothing joyous about this time.
When they first got Andrews diagnosis, she told a night nurse that she just wanted to get her happy-go-lucky little boy back for a single hour.
She had not understood then that any reprieve would only mean that they would have to go through losing him all over again  and each return will be harder than the last as Andrew grows and bonds with us, she wrote in a post.
By October, Andrew was healthier than he had been in a year, running and playing ball with his siblings.
None of the doctors had ever seen this kind of recovery before.
They decided to bring him back to the hospital for a bone-marrow test.
Photo

Michael Loken, who had analyzed Andrews blood work, had not been surprised that Andrews cancer returned.
He had been working on a paper about R.A.M., the genetic marker that Andrew had.
He had tracked 19 other cases of children with the phenotype; three years after the diagnosis, only two were still alive and healthy.
When he examined Andrews marrow this time, using a sample of 200,000 cells, he got goose bumps.
He repeated the test with 500,000 cells.
Then he called Lacayo with the news.
The cancer had disappeared.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

How could cancer spontaneously disappear?
It does feel a bit like a miracle, says Jennifer Willert, the transplant doctor, echoing the sentiments of others.
Noting the rare evocation of a concept that stands outside science, Loken says: It certainly defied our expectations with no discernible basis of happening.
I guess this may be the definition of a miracle.
The medical team grasped for a scientific explanation.
Because Andrew had received no treatment over the summer, the answer had to lie in the bone-marrow transplant of Willss cells.
Their main theory was that the infection that nearly killed Andrew in July had triggered a huge increase in his new white blood cells  and that heightened immune response had attacked not only the infection but the cancer cells as well.
The doctors theorized that the response was partly a product of timing: The cancer had returned just as Andrews new immune system grew strong enough to destroy the cancer cells.
A critical part of why transplants work is that some of the white blood cells, the T cells, that grow from the transplanted bone marrow will attack any lingering cancer cells, an effect known as graft versus leukemia.
Chemotherapy rarely kills every last cancer cell, so it is believed that without graft versus leukemia, the cancer will eventually grow back.
This is often spoken of as a model of so-called immunotherapy  stimulating the patients own immune system to attack cancer cells  which is widely regarded as one of the most promising avenues for cancer treatment.
Willert had made a key decision to depart from Stanfords protocol to increase Andrews chances of getting a robust graft versus leukemia effect.
Typically, a leukemia patient receives immune-suppressing drugs for at least 100 days (and often much longer) in order to avoid a serious side effect called graft versus host disease, in which new T cells attack not only the cancer cells but also the patients skin, liver and gastrointestinal tract.
The art of a transplant is said to be maximizing graft versus leukemia while minimizing graft versus host.
Willert, who is now at the University of California, San Francisco, Benioff Childrens Hospital, had advocated a rapid early taper of Andrews immune-suppressing drugs on Day 60, as is the practice at U.C.S.F.
and other places, because she felt that the benefits outweighed the risk of graft versus host.
I fought for it because I have seen the power of getting rid of immune suppressants and letting the cells do their job, she says.
After all, thats the whole point of a transplant!
The final, critical decision was made against medical advice: Esther and Dans resolution to stop treatment and let Andrew die.
Had they permitted more chemotherapy, the treatment would have killed Willss cells, which were what ultimately enabled Andrew to live.
When you have a child with a life-threatening illness, you have an irrevocably altered existence, Barbara Sourkes had told the Levys, and Esther feels that is true.
She had always felt in control of her fate, but now she believes this to be a fiction.
She finds it difficult to reconcile bitterness over the blight of Andrews illness with gratitude for the reprieve.
We are the luckiest of the unluckiest people in the world, she says.
I truly believe that.
The story presents itself to her as a riddle that cannot be resolved.
She recalls her anger when others told them to hope.
Is the lesson that their friends were right and there is always hope?
Yet it was only by letting go of hope and accepting Andrews death that he lived.
She has not returned to work.
My full-time job is to help the kids feel safe again, she says.
But it is hard for her to feel safe.
The two years after a transplant are the riskiest time for a relapse; after two years that likelihood plummets, and after five years, a patient is considered cured.
The two-year mark is still nine months away.
There are only two states after such a diagnosis: disease and uncertainty, Cohen had told them.
Either he will die soon, and thats certain  or he will continue on, and you will live with that constant balance of hope and fear.
But the balance will change as time goes on.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Only in the past few weeks, Esther says, has she been able to feel that she isnt testing fate by scheduling a dentist appointment for Andrew six months out or by feeling moments of joy watching him without being shadowed by fear of the future.
Day by day, she says, we are allowing ourselves to celebrate a little more.
Lorch sat with Grace and Joe in a cream-colored exam room, a red biohazard box nestled under one counter, and explained that all the standard treatments had been exhausted.
He told them about an experimental trial for aggressive thyroid cancers that hadnt responded to standard treatments, and Grace agreed to enroll.
The drug, everolimus, was used in transplant surgery to prevent rejection, and it had been approved for some use in cancer.
Lorch had seen indications that the drug could work in the thyroid, but he didnt have high hopes for the anaplastic cases  its long track record had been too dismal.
Partly we were motivated, Lorch told me, by the fact that we didnt have anything else.
In the days after starting the trial, Grace found herself standing in front of the mirror in her bedroom, taking in her diminished reflection, beseeching God to give her some kind of sign.
If her time had come, she wanted to know, for the sake of her husband and three children.
If Im going to die, I need time to prepare, she recalled thinking at the time.
Either way, she felt sure that God would hold her by her right hand, as in one of her most cherished lines from the book of Isaiah.
Two months later, in May, Joe drove Grace to Dana-Farber for her follow-up scan.
Lying motionless as the CT scanner began its inquiries, she thought of Isaiah and prayed.
If the everolimus had failed to slow the cancers advance, it would be time to begin the work of getting her affairs in order.
But the scan results, plain to even an untrained eye, were shocking: The largest mass had shrunk to half its previous size.
Everywhere there were signs of retreat.
Lorch said he had never seen such a rout.
All six of the other anaplastic thyroid patients on the trial eventually died, but Graces tumors shrank until they barely registered.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Graces case became the subject of intense scientific scrutiny.
How could such a notoriously recalcitrant cancer simply collapse?
Why had she alone responded so extremely?
Nobody was claiming that she was cured.
But by the end of 2011, Grace felt this much was sure: Having asked for a sign, she had become a walking miracle.
What happened to Grace is sometimes called by another biblical name: the Lazarus effect, after the story in which Jesus stands outside the tomb of Lazarus of Bethany and summons him back to life.
Many veteran oncologists have seen cases like Graces, and the stories of these unlikely recoveries, shared online or by word of mouth, have become a source of hope for patients.
Yet for the field itself, the Lazarus effect has been a source of persistent frustration.
In 2011, for example, the Food and Drug Administration withdrew its support for the treatment of breast cancer with Avastin, a drug with proven efficacy on tumors in other organs.
Some breast-cancer patients had experienced powerful responses  and owed their lives to the drug  but most patients werent helped and were instead exposed to unnecessary side effects.
With no way to predict the results, the drug was as good as useless.
Today patients like Grace have come to be known as exceptional responders, and cancer researchers have finally begun to unravel the puzzles they pose.
In a cancer, some of the bodys cells develop genetic aberrations, growing and spreading uncontrollably, and there are myriad variations on this theme.
While physicians recognize hundreds of types of the disease, genetic analyses suggest that the true number is far higher.
The closer that scientists look at tumors, the more mutations they find, to the point where it may be impossible to count the types of cancer.
Really, every patient suffers her own personal cancer, and when a drug is perfectly aligned to it  to the exact set of mutations driving the tumor  the result is an exceptional response.
In such a case, if scientists could catalog the tumors mutations, they would have a shot at reconstructing a play-by-play  how the conflagration began, how the drug smothered it  and, from this, gain insights that could help others.
The power of this approach was first demonstrated a few years ago, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
In April 2009, Sharon K., who was 68 at the time, had been told by her local doctor that her bladder cancer had morphed into a muscle-invasive form: It had become aggressive and difficult to contain.
At Sloan Kettering, she was given chemotherapy, followed by a cystectomy, which involved removing the bladder and fashioning a new one out of a portion of small intestine.
I felt like my insides were going to fall out, said Sharon, who asked that her last name not be used to protect her privacy.
Still, a few months later, the cancer returned.
In February 2010, running out of alternatives, Sharon joined a clinical trial at the center, with instructions to take two pills every morning and return for regular checkups.
Thousands of trials are open in the United States on any given day, and for people like Sharon, who traveled from Florida to take part, they are an opportunity to take advantage of the latest scientific ideas.
But the odds are generally long: Historically, less than 7 percent of cancer drugs tested in humans eventually win F.D.A.
approval.
At Sharons first follow-up scan, the tumors were in recession; within months, they were gone.
Her doctors were thrilled.
And yet the trial Sharon had joined was a failure.
Of the 44 other patients, just one saw his tumor shrink in a meaningful way.
Dr. David Solit, a researcher at Sloan Kettering, joined a meeting with his colleagues there to discuss the trials results, and he remembers the feeling in the room, familiar to anyone in the field.
O.K., weve had no new effective bladder cancer treatments for 30 years, and we did yet another clinical trial that was [based on] a reasonable idea, he recalled.
This is a disappointment.
Now lets give up and move on to the next thing.
But before they did, they wanted to look into Sharons exceptional response.
In the previous few years, a new technique called next-generation sequencing had made reading an entire genetic code exponentially faster and cheaper.
Curious to see what the technology was capable of, Solit and his colleagues sent Sharons tissue to Illumina, a sequencing company with headquarters in California.
Three months later, Illumina sent back what amounted to two Human Genome Projects: a complete readout of her DNA, totaling some three billion base pairs of code, and then another, equally large, for her tumor.
After months of investigation, considering the potential significance of the tumors various mutations, the researchers settled on a prime suspect, a gene called TSC1.
When they re-examined the failed clinical trial, they discovered that the bladder-cancer patients genetically similar to Sharon had done noticeably better, staying in the trial substantially longer.
The problem hadnt been the drug, but knowing exactly who should receive it.
When Sharons doctors published a paper on their findings in the journal Science, researchers at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., immediately understood the broader implications.
They sifted through a decade of failed clinical trials, thousands of cases, and found that more than 100 patients had experienced impressive positive effects.
More Sharons were out there, each potentially harboring a secret about how to defeat cancer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In 2014, the institute started the Exceptional Responders Initiative, and since then the case reports have come in, each a tantalizing mystery.
What explains the patient with a Stage 4 esophageal cancer that spread to the liver but then disappeared three years ago?
Or the Stage 4 adenocarcinoma patient who experienced a complete remission?
What can we learn, from each Lazarus, about how to save the lives of others?
The first surviving record of treating cancer dates to around 1600 B.C., in an ancient Egyptian papyrus: tumors of the breast, excised and cauterized with what is described as a fire drill.
In the centuries since, oncology has retained something of this elemental character.
It is a bodily assault, brutal but necessary, guided largely by trial and error.
The Boston hospital where Grace was treated takes its name from the cancer researcher Sidney Farber, who pioneered a treatment for childhood leukemia in the 1940s using aminopterin, a poison that racked his young charges but held the disease at bay, at least for a time.
What works and what does not with one generation of patients is used to guide treatment for the next.
Today, a better understanding of cancers workings is transforming treatment, as oncologists learn to attack tumors not according to their place of origin but by the mutations that drive them.
The dream is to go much deeper, to give an oncologist a listing of all a tumors key mutations and their biological significance, making it possible to put aside the rough typology that currently reigns and understand each patients personal cancer.
Every patient, in this future situation, could then be matched to the ideal treatment and, with luck, all responses would be exceptional.
This idea, more broadly, has been called precision medicine: the hope that doctors will be able to come to a far more exact understanding of each patients disease, informed by genetics, and treat it accordingly.
It is in cancer where this has advanced the furthest, and the exceptional responders provide a glimpse of what precision medicine might mean.
When Graces tumor was sequenced, scientists found a mutation in TSC2, a sister gene to TSC1, the one mutated in Sharons cancer.
Sharon, like Grace, had responded to everolimus, and so the genetic similarity suggested that their cases were not flukes, that their seemingly different cancers shared a deep connection.
In this sense, Graces anaplastic thyroid cancer more closely resembled Sharons bladder cancer than other thyroid cancers.
A more precise oncology would have assigned both to everolimus on purpose, not by chance.
Still, the two womens tumors were not identical: While Sharons cancer vanished, Graces still lingered, even if it was harder to discern.
Graces disease barely showed on the scans, and she looked healthy; friends and family found themselves forgetting, from time to time, how seriously ill she was.
Dr. Nikhil Wagle, a Dana-Farber physician and scientist who worked on the genetic analysis of her tumor, was once involved in the case of a 38-year-old man with metastatic melanoma.
A photo, taken when he joined a trial for the drug vemurafenib, shows the mans chest, pale with a greenish cast, covered in large, oblong tumorous bumps.
Cancer derives from the Greek for crab, and in this case, it was easy to see how the ancients imagined crab claws in cancers eruptions.
After 15 weeks, though, another photo shows the mans chest almost completely smooth, its healthy color restored.
Lazarus, touched by vemurafenib.
Then, two months later, the mans chest is wan and bandaged, with protrusions so substantial that they are visible in profile at his neck.
He died in hospice.
In June 2012, a year after Graces miraculous recovery, Maddox, the first of her three grandchildren, was born.
The happy beginning of the next generation was all the more meaningful for Grace because she had not expected to witness it.
But cancer doesnt rest, and Graces doctors knew she faced the same threat as the man with metastatic melanoma.
If a tumor cannot be eliminated, drug resistance is the rule.
As the biological machinery goes awry inside a cancerous mass, reproducing cells make more errors copying their DNA, releasing a stream of mutants.
The everolimus had made conditions harsh, but if a mutant should arise that could thrive despite the drug, it would divide, and divide again, eventually taking over and spreading.
Darwins survival of the fittest governs inside a tumor, selecting for a crueler version of the disease.
The cancer was looking for a new way out.
Grace is a pioneer, which means that others might learn from her.
But it also means that her doctor, Jochen Lorch, has no precedents to guide him, because her case is without precedent.
Within months of Maddoxs birth, he had to tell Grace that a substantial mass had appeared near her right lung and that several smaller nodules had taken root nearby.
The tumor was progressing  surely one of medicines most perverse coinages.
When Grace became resistant to the everolimus, Lorch decided to try a pharmaceutical cousin, temsirolimus.
(Resistant tumors sometimes stick to the same basic escape plan.)
Lorch also asked if she would be willing to undergo a biopsy, so that the resistant tumor could be sequenced and compared with the original.
This, he explained, might help future patients who faced everolimus resistance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

To understand that cancer is genetic is also to realize that the disease lurks within a biological system that has about 20,000 genes, each vulnerable in many ways.
Some day, researchers hope to be able to develop a comprehensive resistance map for cancer, a full accounting of the ways that the disease, in all its varieties, defeats different therapies.
The sequence of Graces resistant tumor could fill in one tiny part of such a map.
Eventually, some scientists believe, treatments for most cancers could come in the form of multiple advanced therapeutics, applied in parallel.
One would be aimed at containing the tumors current mutations, while the others would target its favorite backups.
Hemmed in and blocked from shifting to Plans B or C or D, the insurrection would collapse.
When Lorch suggested the biopsy, Grace was preparing for her grandson Maddoxs dedication ceremony, and she knew that any surgical complications might put her attendance at risk.
But her faith assured her that there was a reason she had happened into Lorchs care  that any adversities she faced would eventually lead to a greater good.
She is deeply convinced that what we are doing here, and what is happening with her, is all part of a plan, Lorch says.
At Maddoxs ceremony in November 2012, Graces ribs flared with every breath.
The biopsy had gone smoothly, but the area was still tender.
Grace used to be a standout in the choir, and one of her favorite hymns had always been It Is Well With My Soul, but since the radiation damaged her vocal cords, she had been unable to sing.
A few months passed, and the temsirolimus wasnt working.
Lorch tried another drug; it didnt work either.
One of the more grotesque insights yielded by cancer genetics is that many of the genes implicated in the disease are the same genes that guide early human development.
All of us begin as a relatively formless embryo, and from there the cells follow an elaborate program.
They grow rapidly.
They migrate and specialize, taking on roles like nerve or skin or the production of hormones in the thyroid.
Cells that are no longer needed die willingly.
All of this activity is ordained in our DNA and orchestrated by an elaborate system of cellular communication in which genes activate and deactivate one another as needed.
It is hard to imagine, but this cooperative dance is what allows an unshaped mass of cells to become something as perfect and graceful as a babys tiny hand, with each fingernail sculpted just so.
In Graces body, cancer hijacked this system and turned it to its own ends.
For example, the gene that mutated in Graces original cancer, TSC2, is part of whats called the mTOR pathway, which helps direct cellular growth.
Normally the TSC2 gene acts as a brake, sending cease-and-desist orders to the mTOR gene when its time for the cellular engines to ease.
The mutation trashed the brakes, locking the cells in overdrive.
Everolimus, however, acts on the mTOR gene directly, limiting its ability to emit growth signals  an emergency brake.
When Grace took it, her cancer faltered.
Early in 2013, Graces team received the sequence of her resistant tumor, and its trick was revealed: A single letter of DNA had changed in the mTOR gene.
This solitary substitution meant that a lone amino acid, part of a long chain that makes up the mTOR protein, was different.
Because of this, the mTOR protein assumed a slightly deformed shape, and this meant that the everolimus could no longer grab hold and do its work.
The cancer roared to life.
It sounds like truly extraordinary bad luck  a one-in-three-billion shot  but the power of evolution means that its entirely predictable: Inside the tumor, cancer rolls a pair of dice, over and over, until they come up snake eyes.
Photo

Often cancer appears to reverse the natural course of things, by taking mature cells, disciplined in form and function, and returning them to a more fevered, inchoate state.
Anaplastic cancers like Graces are those in which the cells have lost their characteristic form.
Seen on a pathology slide, normal thyroid follicular cells have a smooth, rounded look, like uncracked eggs, and they are arranged in neat circles.
With anaplastic thyroid cancer, the cells swell up into a mess of irregular shapes, as if theyd all been melted together.
They are reproducing so often that its not unusual for a pathology slide to show a cell in the middle of doubling, caught in the act.
Cancer is a monster, but in its fierce evolutionary tendencies, it is grasping, as with anything else in nature, for a way to be in the world.
Life on earth has invaded the air, the deep sea, the bedrock.
Over eons, it has suffered meteor storms, volcanic dystopias, shifting continents and deprivations beyond counting, and yet it always comes back stronger.
With cancer, biologys fierce insistence  its resilience, its ceaseless creativity, its sheer generative capacity  is the enemy.
With cancer, the opponent is life.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Lorch considered other ways to help Grace, he knew that one option might come from the pharmaceutical company Millennium, in Cambridge, Mass., which was working on a next-generation mTOR inhibitor, a drug that, like everolimus, targets the mTOR gene.
By the summer of 2013, Wagles colleagues at the Broad Institute of M.I.T.
and Harvard, where he has a position, had made some progress.
After creating a proxy cancer, a collection of cells with the specific mutation found in Graces resistant tumor, they applied a compound that mimicked the activity of the drug by Millennium, which is now called Takeda Oncology.
The drug should work, they concluded.
The company told Lorch that it would support a clinical trial as soon as the drug was ready.
Grace had agreed to the biopsy to help future patients, and now she had a chance to become one of them.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
For Lorch, the challenge was to keep Grace alive long enough to join the trial.
He knew her tumor was always in motion.
Under the long press of everolimus, it had mutated, allowing it to resurge.
The tumor then shook off two other drugs, including temsirolimus.
Lorch decided to go with a traditional chemotherapy combination: carboplatin plus paclitaxel.
In July 2013, he started Grace on the new therapy.
As fall arrived, hair was slipping from her scalp, but the cancer had gone quiet, pharmaceutically stunned.
For all the excitement surrounding precision medicine, it is humbling to see how distant a goal it remains, even in cancer.
There was nothing especially precise about the chemotherapy Lorch prescribed for Grace, and this, for most patients, is the reality today.
Despite all of oncologys recent successes, our understanding of the human cells vast genetic machinery  cancers playground  remains modest.
The original Illumina sequence of Sharons tumor revealed a total of 17,136 mutations.
Pick any one and inquire about its significance, and the answer will most likely be: Who knows?
To make the shift to precision oncology, cancer researchers have invented a novel means to evaluate new treatments.
Called a basket trial, it is a trial for which patients are recruited by the tumors genetic signature, not its point of origin in the body; a drug is thus tested against a basket of many cancer types.
Last August, an international team led by researchers at Sloan Kettering published some of the first results of such a trial, for cancers with a mutation in a gene called BRAF.
The doctors saw a good response in lung cancer and two rare cancers, showing the power of selecting drugs based on tumor genetics.
For other cancer types in the trial, though, the drug was less effective, or there were too few patients to draw conclusions, showing how much more remains to be learned.
Sometimes targeting a mutation fails because it is only one of many driving the tumor, or because the mutation occurred at random in the genetic chaos, a passenger, while other mutations do the driving.
Future basket trials could help doctors tease out the distinctions.
Many such trials are now underway, including a large federally supported effort called NCI-Match.
Sharon and Graces cases even helped inspire an everolimus basket trial.
Carole Arenson, an 80-year-old Illinois woman, has metastatic sarcoma with a mutation in TSC2, the same troublesome gene implicated in Graces disease.
Carole joined the everolimus basket trial and, in November, she learned that the tumors were shrinking.
In this, the scientific investigations can be seen coming full circle, from a pair of Lazarus miracles to practical medicine that, to Carole, has felt like salvation.
When I met Lorch in his office last year, he was optimistic.
Grace had just started on the Takeda Oncology drug, and the initial signs pointed to considerable shrinkage.
Back in the fall of 2010, when she first received her diagnosis, her life expectancy could be measured in months.
We are trying to turn [cancer] into a chronic disease, Lorch said.
Right now, to have someone still alive five years after they were diagnosed and enjoying her grandkids is the best that we can do.
As we spoke, though, on his computer screen was a scan with spots: masses of Graces tumor cells, within which, concealed from him, the cancer was surely plotting its next escape.
Lorch sat a bit sideways on his chair, leaning back with his hand a loose fist on his forehead, as if he were bracing for impact.
When her time comes, it is going to be hard to speak with her husband and all the people whove come in with her over the years.
He paused.
Am I dreading this?
Does it motivate me to try harder to keep her around?
Yes, absolutely.
President Obamas $202 million Precision Medicine Initiative, announced during his 2015 State of the Union address, seeks to study one million American volunteers to learn how genetic and other data might be used to tailor treatments.
The initiative aims for progress in many ailments, including heart disease, diabetes, obesity and depression, but initially the focus is cancer.
In January, in his final State of the Union address, Obama announced that he was putting Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in charge of a moonshot to cure cancer.
Beau Biden, the vice presidents son, died in May 2015, at age 46, of brain cancer.
The presidents mother died of uterine and ovarian cancer.
For the loved ones weve all lost, Obama said before the joint session of Congress, for the families that we can still save, lets make America the country that cures cancer once and for all.
Two days after the presidents moonshot speech, I was on the eighth floor of the Charles A. Dana Building in Boston to visit Wagle at Dana-Farber.
Last October, Wagle unveiled the Metastatic Breast Cancer Project, inspired partly by his involvement in Graces case and partly by frustration over the way cancer research works today.
Its quite difficult to track down patients with intriguing case histories, scattered as they are across the country and protected by blankets of privacy.
So instead of going through doctors or hospitals, the project makes its appeal to patients directly.
Through the projects website, they can enter their medical histories and grant Wagles team access to their records, their DNA and tumor samples.
Participants have started recruiting others to the project, solving a central challenge facing the scientific study of any rare phenomenon.
In six months, more than 1,800 patients with metastatic breast cancer have joined, including hundreds of exceptional responders.
In return, the project involves them in its decision-making and promises to share its data with any scientist who asks.
A lot of patients feel like the research-industrial complex is about making discoveries and competing for grants, and in many ways they are right, Wagle said.
I get it.
The project cuts against the grain of a medical system that was not designed to learn from patients.
Every day in this country, doctors treat people for all kinds of disorders, and some do surprisingly well, or surprisingly poorly  and virtually all of this information is lost to science.
Eric Lander, the founding director of the Broad Institute and co-chairman of the Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, has begun laying the groundwork for a national project he calls Count Me In, which would allow anyone to make their medical records, and DNA, available to researchers.
In my opinion, Lander said, its a crime to let valuable information go to waste when a patient wants to share it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Wagles project is Count Me Ins first undertaking.
Next, Count Me In is beginning a similar effort on angiosarcoma, an understudied cancer, and two more efforts are planned this year.
Precision oncology has been driven by advances in two areas: automation, responsible for the plummeting cost of genetic sequencing, and information technology, which allows the data to be recorded and interpreted.
Projects like Count Me In are built on the premise that a third disruptive technology can also be brought to bear: social media.
Photo

The campaign by American political leaders to cure cancer goes back decades, including Nixons war on cancer.
But these latest federal calls for action  which bring to mind images of the best and brightest, backed by brute force  risk mistaking the nature of the opponent and misunderstanding the potential of the weapons now available.
Ask almost any specialist about a cure for cancer, and she will cringe, because there is no one cancer to be cured.
We face an enemy that is resourceful, changeable and merciless, but we have a population that wants to help.
Instead of a war (or a moonshot), what is required probably looks more like a counterinsurgency operation.
The people are tired of being victimized, unable to have a say in their own fates.
Almost any one of them would tell you: If you are going to die, its better to die with a purpose.
The patients enlisted so far, however, have joined almost by accident.
Sharon, who continues to live in Florida without any sign of cancer, explained how thoroughly her good fortune has depended on her circumstances.
Her son-in-law, an oncologist, pointed her to Sloan Kettering, and she could afford to fly up every four weeks to participate in the trial.
I think about the people who would have trouble with funds, and it breaks my heart, she said.
If Grace had not happened to live near Boston, the odds that she could have laid eyes on any of her grandchildren  or contributed to science  are long indeed.
Carole Arenson, who has continued to do well on everolimus, found a place in the basket trial only because she had Foundation Medicine, a company in Cambridge, Mass., sequence her tumor, revealing the crucial mutation.
Im as happy to see you, Carole recalled telling a doctor involved with the trial, as you are to see me.
This haphazard approach has led to a chicken-and-egg problem that is among the most obvious obstacles to progress in precision oncology.
In order to run basket trials, researchers must find patients with the right mutations.
But this has proved difficult, because most patients arent having sequences done: Insurance generally doesnt cover it.
The reason?
Because, insurance companies point out, there is not yet enough evidence that it will be clinically useful.
The way to gather this evidence?
Basket trials.
Jos Baselga, the physician in chief and chief medical officer at Sloan Kettering, told me that his hospital has a number of quite promising basket trials running but is struggling to find enough patients.
One analysis published last year found that patients in genetically targeted trials are seeing better outcomes than those in traditional trials.
Yet if patients who would qualify arent fortunate enough to be at cancer centers like Sloan Kettering or Dana-Farber that run sequencing programs supported by philanthropic money, they either need to pay for it themselves or they are out of luck  and so is cancer research.
Baselga, in conversations with Biden, has argued for a change in policy: If Medicare covered sequencing, private insurance would follow, opening up precision medicine to many more people.
Its a problem of scale.
Sloan Kettering, Dana-Farber and several other top cancer hospitals are pooling their findings so that oncologists can search through cases, about 20,000 so far, to see what mutations were found, what drugs were tried and how patients responded.
The National Cancer Institutes Exceptional Responders Initiative has accumulated about 50 confirmed cases from around the country.
Fifty exceptional responders is a large number, but it is also small.
The same could be said of 20,000 cancer cases, annotated with genetic and clinical information: large, unprecedented and also not nearly enough.
For thousands of years, deep thinkers about military strategy have understood that wars are not won in the way the public imagines.
Gen. Robert H. Barrow, who served four years as commandant of the United States Marine Corps, is credited with saying that amateurs talk about tactics, but professionals study logistics.
Science has revealed the nature of cancer, and also created new means to gather intelligence on the foe.
Solitary engagements can reveal new weaknesses to exploit.
Does anyone truly imagine prevailing without bringing the fight everywhere  without matching cancer in its inventiveness, its nimbleness, its sheer relentlessness?
On a bitter morning in January, I visited Grace at home.
When I stepped into the entryway, she stood at the top of some steps, wearing a purple top, black leggings and a pair of comfy black slippers.
From a television, I made out a voice that could be only Elmo.
Grace smiled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She took a seat on a sofa with Jaelynn, her 2-year-old granddaughter, who sat in an off-white cable-knit sweater watching the TV and occasionally pushing her fine black hair from her face.
On the wall hung a photograph of Faial, the Portuguese island where Graces father, who went by Mestre Simao, had been a ferry captain.
Simao was beloved for braving severe storms to fetch people in distress from a nearby island and deliver them to the Faial hospital.
He would tie himself to the wheel.
Sometimes he returned with a cockpit window blown out.
Grace showed me a video on her phone from 2013, when a new ferry arrived at the island: The Mestre Simao, named for her father.
With its lime green and dark blue bow, the boat made its way in from the ocean, trailed by a tug.
Jaelynn stood next to Grace, enraptured as the scene unfolded, a hand resting on her grandmothers leg.
Sitting there, I found myself wondering if something happened during one of Simaos storm runs.
I imagined a gravely ill man, tied down for safety, the sea enraged.
The man would have been praying, and he would have known that his only earthly hope was Simao, up in the cockpit, refusing to panic as the marine glass shattered in his face.
Was there a moment when this was somehow noted  when some beneficence was granted to Simaos youngest, little Grace, who always took his lunch to the docks?
The trailing tug began pumping ocean water, two celebratory arches in the air.
Water!
Jaelynn shouted.
I know, I know, Grace said.
Look, its so pretty.
The boats circled.
You want to go someday on a ship?
Grace asked.
Jaelynns eyes kept to the screen.
It was morning in the Azores, and the light hit low.
Yeah, she said.
A few months later, Grace began coughing up blood.
Joe rushed her to the emergency room: A tumor in her lung was growing again.
The Takeda Oncology drug had been good for six months.
Grace went through a round of radiation on the lung and then started nivolumab, a therapy that helps the immune system attack tumors.
Earlier this month, though, she went to the hospital with dizziness and a severe headache.
Scans showed metastasis to the brain.
Lying flat in a bed on the 12th floor of Brigham and Womens Hospital, Grace assured Lorch that her minister was praying for him too, as he pondered his options: for her but also for what science might still learn from her remarkable case.
The nivolumab was out, but Lorch did notice that the drug seemed to have been working around her lung  several tumors shrank  which is significant because doctors dont know who will respond to the drug.
He and his colleagues plan to take what theyve learned about the genetics of Graces cancer and compare it with evidence, from her blood, of the drugs activity.
This might help the next patient.
Grace may have yet more to give.
Some argue that circumcision can reduce the chance of contracting a sexually transmitted infection later in life.
A systematic review of 26 studies found that circumcised men are at a lower risk of syphilis or chancroid.
There might be some protection against herpes, but its less significant.
The strongest case for circumcision can be made as a benefit against the transmission of H.I.V.
In Africa, where H.I.V.
is much more prevalent, randomized controlled trials of circumcision have been performed.
The results were quite convincing.
Absolute rate reductions of 1-2 percent over one to two years were seen.
Some estimate that for 10 to 20 males circumcised, one fewer man might contract H.I.V.
over a lifetime.
One study likened circumcision to a vaccine of high efficacy.
Again, though, these results apply to countries with a much higher prevalence of H.I.V.
than we see in the United States.
The protection afforded, therefore, is much less significant here.
Opponents of circumcision point to its potential downsides.
Surgical complications, while rare, are greater than zero.
Pain is a concern as well; evidence exists both to support and rebut the notion that infants recover quickly.
More prominent concerns focus on sexual function and satisfaction.
Opponents argue that the foreskin, like much of the penis, contains many nerve endings.
It also protects the head of the penis; without it, the penis might become less sensitive over time.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But does this actually happen?
A recent study in the Journal of Urology, discussed in The New York Times, measured penile sensitivity in circumcised and uncircumcised men and found no real difference.
It wasnt the first, or the best, study to look at this.
A randomized controlled trial of more than 2,700 men in Kenya found that after circumcision they experienced increased sensitivity, and that they had an easier time reaching orgasm.
A systematic review and meta-analysis found that circumcision was unrelated to premature ejaculation, erectile dysfunction or difficulty achieving orgasm.
Over all, the evidence arguing for and against circumcision fails to make a compelling case in either direction.
The benefits, while arguably real, are small; likewise the harms.
In such cases, we usually leave the decision to the patient.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There is, of course, an ethical problem here, since the choice is almost always made by parents, not by the boys themselves.
Circumcision is irreversible, and many argue, quite stridently, that this is genital mutilation inflicted on children for no reason.
All cards on the table: Im Jewish, and Im circumcised, as are both my sons.
The procedure has a spiritual weight in my community.
When confronted by people who use terms like mutilation, I generally recoil.
Circumcising my boys was a personal decision for my wife and me, and I understand the various arguments for and against.
People angry about this choice seem to imagine that we havent thoroughly considered it.
I also live with the knowledge that its possible that my children might have chosen differently.
But we also have to recognize that parents make many, many decisions for their children with a greater and more meaningful impact on them than circumcision.
Thats what parents do.
Assuming that this is the most consequential one we might have made about our boys lives, and focusing so much attention on it  when evidence makes the value of either choice unclear  seems out of proportion.
That doesnt mean opponents dont have a point.
Circumcision is much rarer in most other industrialized countries.
Health organizations in those countries dont advocate the procedure as we do in the United States.
An argument can also be made for waiting until boys are old enough to make a decision for themselves.
A number of factors make that difficult, though.
Its a more complicated procedure then, with greater risks and higher costs.
Given that religion and culture are tied up in this, its clear that this issue wont be decided soon.
Its also clear that evidence wont make anyones choice easier.
In the end, the decision as to whether parents opt to have their babies circumcised will remain a personal one.
Mothers didnt adopt this behavior out of nowhere.
In 2000, the American Academy of Pediatrics released guidelines on reducing a childs risk for developing allergies.
They recommended that mothers eliminate peanuts and tree nuts (e.g., almonds, walnuts, etc.)
and consider eliminating eggs, cows milk, fish, and perhaps other foods from their diets while nursing.
Further, they recommended that children at high risk for allergies be given no solid foods until six months of age, no dairy products until 1 year old, no eggs until age 2, and no peanuts, nuts or fish until age 3.
A debate has been raging in the health care system for decades on this topic.
I was part of a systematic review that examined the relationship between early solid food introduction and allergic disease in children.
We found no good evidence to support the idea that being exposed to solid foods earlier led to persistent food allergies.
To its credit, the A.A.P.
changed its recommendations based on new research.
In 2008, updated guidelines reported that maternal restrictions in pregnancy or breast-feeding no longer seemed like advice that should be widely recommended.
It also acknowledged that there didnt seem much reason to delay the introduction of allergy foods like peanuts after six months, around the age babies move from milk or formula to a wider range of food.
Unfortunately, this did little to change peoples behavior.
Many had already internalized the advice.
It seemed logical to them that avoiding foods would give children less of a chance to develop allergies.
If it was still a good idea not to expose children until they were six months old, why not keep going?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A study published in The New England Journal of Medicine last year turned all of this on its head.
Researchers enrolled 640 infants at high risk for allergies, between 4 and 11 months of age, in a trial and randomized them to one of two groups.
One of them was to avoid peanut protein; the other was to eat at least six grams of peanut protein a week given in three or more meals.
All participants were followed until they were 5 years old.
What was most surprising in this work was that 15 percent of the infants already had evidence of peanut sensitivity by allergy testing.
They were enrolled in the trial despite this, and half of them were given peanut extract every week.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The results were remarkable.
At the end of the study, about 3 percent of those exposed to peanuts had developed a peanut allergy, compared with more than 17 percent among those who avoided peanuts.
More surprising, if you looked just at the children who already had evidence of peanut sensitivity when they were babies, fewer than 11 percent of those regularly exposed to peanuts developed an allergy.
But more than 35 percent of those who avoided peanuts developed an allergy.
Children who had proven sensitivity to peanuts, but consumed them in their diet regularly, were less likely to develop a peanut allergy than children without sensitivity who avoided them.
Recently, follow-up results were published.
After the trial ended, researchers asked all the participants who had been regularly consuming peanuts to avoid them for the next 12 months.
At the end of that period, when the children were 6, there was no significant increase in new peanut allergies in that group.
Avoidance at this point made no difference.
The critical need for exposure appears to be somewhere from infancy until age 5.
These results were so convincing that, once again, experts are changing their recommendations.
In September 2015, the A.A.P.
along with others  argued that health care providers should recommend introducing peanut-containing products into the diets of high-risk infants early on in life.
These changes dovetail nicely within what has become known as the hygiene hypothesis, the gist of which is that as weve made our environment more and more sterile, our immune systems develop differently than they used to.
Without exposure to outside things to fight, our defenses turn inward and toward more benign substances, leading to increased levels of eczema, asthma and allergies.
Of course, many people used to die from infections that no longer threaten us because of advances, so no one should take this as a call for living in filth.
Nor should anyone take these recent findings as advice to feed babies and small children peanuts and other foods without concern.
All changes to an infants diet, especially in children with allergies, should be done in consultation with a health care professional.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As with many things in health care, however, we went too far with our response to peanut and other food allergies.
Avoidance is sometimes needed for those with severe reactions.
When we apply those same rules to everyone else, however, things can backfire.
That schedule is on the website of Ray Fair, a professor in the economics department at Yale, who was inspired to find the patterns of slowdowns when his own running performance began to decline.
The result is a table.
You can put in your best time ever for an event, say a 10-kilometer race, and how old you were when you ran it.
The table then shows how fast you could have run it when you were younger and how fast you should be able to run it now and as you grow even older.
Some say the site changed their life, Fair said.
They know they will slow down as they grow older, but as long as they slow down as much as the site says they will, they are fine.
As for Fair, hes not as happy.
I am not on my line, he said.
I am worse than I should be but I am trying to get back.
But even being on the line means not being what you were before, and that can be a hard adjustment for many former elite runners.
I still run every day, Nippert said, but its a tough transition to just being just an everyday runner.
Sometimes, as with Mary Decker Slaney and Doriane Coleman, elite middle distance runners, the end of a career starts insidiously with an injury from which their aging bodies just cannot recover.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Slaney, who is 57, ruptured her posterior tibial tendon in 1997.
She had surgery to have it reconstructed and then tried to train, telling herself she could get back to the point where she had been.
For a long time, I thought there was still a way to get better, Slaney said.
But eventually you get to a point where you realize that is not happening.
I couldnt run, I could only jog and to me that was disheartening.
But after about 10 years, I decided: O.K.
I will jog because I cant do anything else.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

She was saved, she said, when she discovered a sort of combination of elliptical cross-trainer and bicycle that she can use on the roads outside her home in Eugene, Ore.
It is the closest thing to running without actually running, she said.
I got on one for the first time and within 10 minutes I knew I had to have one.
I thought, Oh my God, I havent felt that way in a long time.
Slaney still dreams of running, and she often dreams she is back on the starting line.
Her dreams even include training again.
There is nothing to replicate the feeling of running, she said.
Her friend Coleman, a law professor at Duke University, understands all too well.
For her, the career-ending injury was a ruptured Achilles tendon.
For many years I didnt have a successful strategy to transition from being a runner where every run is a training run, every run has a purpose and you are constantly aware of time passing and distance passing, she said.
Thats so ingrained.
She kept trying to train, she said, but it was making me insane.
Then she reasoned with herself.
I am 55 years old, for Gods sake, she said she realized.
I dont need to go on training runs anymore.
But old habits are hard to break.
Sometimes, Coleman says, when she is on a run, feeling good, my brain goes into its old track and I think, I can still do it.
On those days, she says, I pick up the pace a little bit; I kind of forget my age.
But she also has a strategy that has changed her life.
She leaves her watch behind.
Before she sets out on a run, Coleman looks at the clock.
When she gets back, she glances at it again.
Then she tells herself, Ballpark.
The Minnesota Coronary Experiment was a well-designed study that was conducted in one nursing home and six state mental hospitals from 1968 to 1973.
More than 9,400 men and women, ages 20 to 97, participated.
Data on serum cholesterol were available on more than 2,300 participants who were on the study diets for more than a year.
At baseline, participants were getting about 18.5 percent of their calories from saturated fat, and about 3.8 percent from unsaturated fats.
The intervention diet was considered a more heart healthy one.
It encouraged a reduction in the amount of calories from saturated fats (like animal fats and butter) and more from unsaturated fats, particularly linoleic acids (like corn oil).
The intervention diet lowered the percent of calories from saturated fats to 9.2 percent, and raised the percent from unsaturated fats to 13.2 percent.
The average follow-up for these participants was just under three years.
In that time, the total serum cholesterol dropped significantly more in those on the intervention diet (-31.2 mg/dL) than in those on the control diet (-5 mg/dL).
There was, however, no decreased risk of death.
If anything, there seemed to be an increased mortality rate in those on the heart healthy diet, particularly among those 65 years and older.
More concerning, those who had the greater reduction in serum cholesterol had a higher rate of death.
A 30mg/dL decrease in serum cholesterol was associated with a 22 percent increase in the risk of death from any cause, even after adjusting for baseline cholesterol, age, sex, adherence to the diet, body mass and blood pressure.
Of course, this is only one study.
It involved only institutionalized patients.
Only about a quarter of the participants followed the diet for more than a year.
The diets dont necessarily look like what people really ate, then or now.
But this is still a large, randomized controlled trial, and its hard to imagine we wouldnt at least discuss it widely.
Moreover, the researchers conducted a meta-analysis of all studies that looked at this question.
Analyzed together, they still found that more people died on the linoleic-acid-rich diets, although the results were not statistically significant.
Even in a sensitivity analysis, which included more studies, no mortality benefit could be found with a diet lower in saturated fats.
Its important to note that other meta-analyses both support and dispute this.
A 2010 study argued that substituting unsaturated fats for saturated fats would reduce the rates of coronary heart disease.
So did a 2015 Cochrane review.
A 2014 study in Annals of Internal Medicine, though, showed the opposite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Peoples reactions to this news have been much as youd expect.
Supporters of a diet low in saturated fat have called the new study an interesting historical footnote that has no relevance to current dietary recommendations.
Others have said that if this research had been published when the study was over, it might have changed the trajectory of diet-heart research and recommendations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This isnt the first time that data from long ago have run against current recommendations.
In 2013, an analysis was published of recovered data from the Sydney Diet Heart Study, a randomized controlled trial of a similar nature performed in men with a recent heart attack or angina.
Although the study was done from 1966 to 1973, results werent available publicly until three years ago.
It, too, found that a diet higher in unsaturated fats led to a higher rate of death from heart disease.
Why wasnt this research published decades ago?
Its possible that modern computer technology allows us to do analyses that couldnt be performed then.
Its possible that researchers tried, but were unable to get the results published.
But its also possible that these results were marginalized because they didnt fit with what was considered to be truth at the time.
The two principal investigators on the Minnesota study were Ivan Frantz and Ancel Keys, the latter of whom may be the most influential scientist in promoting saturated fat as the enemy of heart health.
(Mr. Keys died in 2004.)
Im not suggesting anything sinister.
Im sure that both these scientists absolutely believed that their prior epidemiologic work established that diets lower in saturated fat led to lower cholesterol levels and better health.
Research consistently confirmed the former.
When that lower cholesterol didnt translate into actual outcomes like lower mortality, though, they must have been baffled.
Like others today, they may have been able to rationalize the result away and decide that it has no relevance.
Unfortunately, other, similar controlled trials seem to support the notion that the case against saturated fat isnt as robust as many think.
We all must be concerned about publication bias, which occurs when results of published studies are systematically different from results of unpublished studies.
Research has shown that studies with statistically significant results are more likely to be published than those without.
Studies with a low-priority topic or finding may be less likely to be published.
One of the reasons that epidemiologic evidence often leads us to conclusions that cant be supported is likely publication bias.
Studies that find significant associations between foods (like meat) and scary findings (like cancer) are more likely to be published than those that dont find those associations.
When controlled trials are finally done, though, the scary results often cant be replicated.
But the most common reason research isnt published is because researchers dont write it up and submit it.
That could be because they think it wont be accepted.
It could also be because they dont believe the results.
In the charged environment of nutrition research, when peoples careers are built on certain hypotheses, its hard not to imagine our biases creeping into play.
Unfortunately, the health of Americans and others is at stake.
Should we be eating more polyunsaturated fats?
Should we be avoiding saturated fats?
The honest answer is: I dont know.
Given my review of the evidence, I stand by my previous recommendations, which essentially focus more on foods and less on nutrients.
I think the state of nutrition research in general is shockingly flawed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its hard enough to debate the data we can see.
Knowing theres probably data out there that people havent shared makes everything much, much harder.
The academic institutions involved are the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center, Stanford, and the University of California campuses in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
After decades of frustration, researchers have finally figured out how to direct the bodys immune system to recognize and attack tumors, resulting in some striking recoveries for patients on the brink of death.
But this approach has worked for only a minority of patients, so there is still much room for improvement.
Dozens of companies are pursuing the field, and philanthropists are supporting research.
Johns Hopkins University recently announced it would open a center for immunotherapy research using $50 million gifts from Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, and Sidney Kimmel, founder of the Jones Apparel Group.
Immunotherapy is also a major thrust of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.s cancer moonshot initiative.
Video

Mr. Parker said that his institute, which will involve about 300 researchers in 40 laboratories on the six campuses, will try to improve on existing approaches in ways not being pursued by companies.
The institute will have a somewhat unusual arrangement with the research centers.
While each academic center will own the intellectual property from its work, the Parker Institute will manage the patents and their licensing to companies.
Some of the proceeds will go toward future research by the Parker Institute and be shared by all the academic centers, giving them an incentive to cooperate rather than compete.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Parker Institute will also work with companies, including a study with Merck on why some cancers resist treatment by the companys drug Keytruda.
Jeffrey Bluestone, a professor and immune system expert at the University of California, San Francisco, will also serve as chief executive of the Parker Institute, which will be based in San Francisco.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers said the money from the Parker Institute would allow them to pursue longer term projects and more radical ideas than they could using government grants.
If you have a great idea, you should be able to try it tomorrow, said Lewis L. Lanier, who will lead the project at U.C.S.F.
Its pretty stale if you have to wait nine months to get a government grant.
Mr. Parker, whose wealth is estimated at $2.4 billion by Forbes, announced last year that he had put $600 million into a foundation to support life sciences research, public health and civic engagement.
The immunotherapy effort is the largest allotment of that money by far.
This is my primary philanthropic project probably for the rest of my life, he said.
Mr. Parker, 36, said he initially became interested in the immune system because he has asthma and food allergies.
But his interest in tamping down the immune system to stifle allergies also drew his attention to efforts to rev it up to fight cancer.
On Wednesday evening, Mr. Parker will host a big party at his house in Los Angeles to celebrate the start of the immunotherapy project.
Guests will include the actors Tom Hanks and Sean Penn, the directors Peter Jackson and Ron Howard, the venture capitalist John Doerr, Twitters chief executive, Jack Dorsey, and Gov.
Jerry Brown of California, according to the invitation.
Lady Gaga and John Legend are scheduled to perform.
Presumably, the cancer researchers will also be there.
Photo

Two years ago, Kristi Wood was tired and achy and could not think clearly, and she had no idea why.
I was in a fog and feeling awful, said Ms. Wood, 49, who lives in Seattle and is an owner of a hiking supply company.
Ms. Wood had her blood tested by a consumer service called InsideTracker, which analyzes 30 hormones and biomarkers, such as vitamin levels, cholesterol and inflammation.
After the service told Ms. Wood she had excessive levels of vitamin D, she cut back on a supplement she had been using and said she almost immediately felt better.
Now she has her blood drawn and tested by InsideTracker every four months to check everything from her blood sugar to her B12 levels which, she said, allows me to be proactive about her health.
The services typically send their customers to a nearby clinic where they can have a vial of their blood drawn and sent for analyses.
But InsideTracker also offers customers the option to have nurses show up at their home and draw blood.
(Such services are different from another blood testing company that has been much in the news, Theranos, which aims to provide laboratory test results from a single finger prick.)
Home testing services like InsideTracker say they are empowering consumers, allowing them to spot metabolic red flags before they progress to disease.
But critics say the services often lack proper medical oversight and convince healthy people that theyre sick, leading to unnecessary testing and treatment.
Those concerns have not stopped people from seeking home testing.
The market for direct-to-consumer laboratory tests was valued at $131 million last year, up from $15 million in 2010,according to Kalorama Information, a pharmaceutical-industry research firm.
In December, the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, accused two companies, DirectLabs and LabCorp, of violating a state law that requires laboratory tests to be carried out at the request of licensed medical practitioners.
DirectLabs had sold hundreds of health tests to consumers, ranging from checks for heavy metals and vitamins to screening for parasites and disease.
But Mr. Schneiderman said the person fulfilling the medical practitioner role was actually a chiropractor who had never met, spoken to or followed up with any patients.
DirectLabs did not respond to a request for comment.
DirectLabs and LabCorp agreed to pay fines, and DirectLabs ceased operating in New York.
In a statement, Mr. Schneiderman said that allowing consumers to be tested for serious medical conditions without consulting a physician put their health in jeopardy.
Advocates of home testing, however, say such cases do not reflect industry practices.
InsideTracker and another leading company, WellnessFX, said they worked with doctors who reviewed all test results.
Paul Jacobson, the chief executive of WellnessFX, based in San Francisco, said the company complied with all regulations and offered customers the option of consulting with a doctor, nutritionist or registered dietitian to discuss their results.
WellnessFX sells packages ranging from $78 to $988, offering analyses of 25 to 88 blood biomarkers, including vitamins, lipids, cardiovascular markers and thyroid and reproductive hormones.
Depending on the results, the company also suggests supplements, foods and exercise.
You need to offer solutions to people; otherwise, youre just giving them meaningless information, Mr. Jacobson said.
Tara Boening, the dietitian for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association, said the team started using InsideTracker this season.
The players look at their reports (deficiencies are highlighted in red), which include suggested corrective actions such as eating more red meat and leafy greens if they are low in iron.
The players have been really receptive to the information, Ms. Boening said.
But some doctors say that there is no evidence that such monitoring makes a meaningful improvement in health.
Dr. Pieter Cohen, an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School and an internist at Cambridge Health Alliance, cautioned that the levels of vitamin D and other biomarkers that were optimal for one person might be very different from what is optimal for another person.
He said InsideTrackers lab reports, for example, classified vitamin D levels below 30 nanograms per milliliter as low  even though a level above 20 is perfectly normal and adequate for most people.
Dr. Cohen said his major concern with direct-to-consumer blood tests was that they screened for so many biomarkers and created seemingly arbitrary ranges for what is considered normal.
Then they give people advice that they already know they should be following.
The best-case scenario here is you lose your money and then youre reminded to get more sleep and to eat more fruits, vegetables and fish, he said.
The worst-case scenario is that you end up getting alarmed by supposedly abnormal results that are actually completely normal for you.
InsideTracker was founded by Gil Blander, a biochemist who did postgraduate research on aging at M.I.T.
He said the idea behind InsideTracker was analogous to routine maintenance for cars.
We decided, lets try to do that for humans, Dr. Blander said.
We can help you find a small issue today that might be a big problem in the future.
Some, like Joseph Roberts, say the services are life-changing.
Four years ago, Mr. Roberts, a former Army Ranger and a retired master sergeant, was plagued by fatigue, depression and weight gain despite frequent exercise.
Mr. Roberts, then 39, said doctors told him his symptoms were a normal part of aging.
Eventually, he decided to have his blood tested with InsideTracker, and the results surprised him, he said.
He was told he had low testosterone and vitamin D, as well as excessive levels of vitamin B12.
Mr. Roberts cut back on daily energy drinks, which are loaded with B12.
He also saw a doctor to discuss his testosterone levels.
He learned his low levels were linked to a brain injury he had sustained as a result of a roadside bomb explosion in Iraq in 2003.
He began testosterone-replacement therapy and now regularly checks in with a doctor.
He also has his blood tested with InsideTracker every four months.
Ive had a huge improvement in my quality of life, he said.
Its money well spent.
For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

Hard Cases Dr. Abigail Zuger on the everyday ethical issues doctors face.
The minute I got on that bus, I knew I was in trouble.
The driver sat at the stop just long enough to miss the green light.
Then he inched along till he missed the next light and the one after that.
He stopped at every stop even though not a soul was waiting.
The 20-minute trip to work stretched to a half-hour, then longer.
I was late, late, late.
But this was a driver with a mission, clearly way ahead of schedule and trying to get back on track.
He was very early; now I was very late.
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas, and the one in the drivers seat was bound to win.
A half-hour later, still sweating from racing the last five blocks on foot, with patients piling up in the waiting room, I became the one in the drivers seat, with the mission and overriding agenda.
Woe betide those with competing plans.
Just like that driver, I work under two mandates.
One is professional: getting my passengers from point A to point B without breaking the law or killing anyone.
The other one is less exalted but generally far more visible: I run according to a schedule that I ignore at my peril.
Shes running late, they mutter out in the waiting room.
And indeed, she runs late for exactly the same reasons your bus runs late: too many slow-moving passengers lined up to board.
Not enough buses or drivers.
A person in a wheelchair requiring extra attention.
Horrible traffic.
Not only does she often run late, but your poor driver  er, doctor  can run only so late before disaster ensues.
She has obligations not only to you and your fellow passengers twitching in annoyance, but to a host of others, including the nursing and secretarial staffs and the cleaning crew at the end of the line.
She cant pull that bus in at midnight if everyone is supposed to leave by 7 p.m.
So when there is enough work to last till midnight, my agenda shifts, and not so subtly.
Everyone can tell when I begin to speed.
Every visit is pared down to the essentials.
All optional and cosmetic issues are postponed, including most toenail problems and all paperwork.
Chatting is minimized.
As a bus driver once said to me when I was foolish enough to start a conversation about his speed: Lady, just get behind the white line and let me drive.
Medicine is full of competing agendas.
Even at the best of times, the match between the doctors and the patients is less than perfect, sometimes egregiously so.
Some residents are now trained specifically in agenda setting, the art of successfully amalgamating all concerns.
But when its all about speed, an advanced skill set is required.
A patient has been waiting weeks for his appointment, anxiously rehearsing his lines.
Bad luck that he showed up on a day I need him in and out in 19 minutes.
He spends his first 18 unwisely, pretending everything is fine, making small talk, not quite mustering the courage to say whats on his mind.
Then just as he is being ushered gently to the door, he pauses.
Oh, by the way 

Oh, by the way is an infamous schedule buster.
It means something bad: a suspicious lump, a sexually transmitted disease.
Further, it is so common that an entire literature now addresses the oh, by the way phenomenon and how to tame it.
One favored tool is: What else?
That question, asked by the doctor early in the visit, is intended to probe the patients agenda before it trumps the doctors.
As one set of researchers wrote: The what else?
technique uncovers pertinent fears and anxieties up front and prevents an oh, by the way, I have been having some chest pain from surfacing at the end of a visit.
In other words: My agenda is to adopt your agenda, and then rework it so that I can drive on.
Brutal, perhaps, but effective.
Very rarely do things work out for me the way they did for that driver who made me so late to work.
Occasionally I have so much time that I can dawdle along the route.
I remember clearly the last time that happened.
Hows work?
I began.
What are you doing for exercise?
Any hobbies?
Your family, are they well?
I progressed rapidly through seatbelts, bike helmets, family medical history, end-of-life preferences  every single stop my bus typically has no time to make.
Every answer was fine, yes, or I dunno.
Then the patient stood up: Look, I have places to be.
Are we done?
We were two people with competing, mutually exclusive agendas.
But that time the one in the drivers seat lost.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Photo

The Checkup Dr. Perri Klass on family health.
When girls come in for their physical exams, one of the questions I routinely ask is Do you get your period?
I try to ask before I expect the answer to be yes, so that if a girl doesnt seem to know about the changes of puberty that lie ahead, I can encourage her to talk about them with her mother, and offer to help answer questions.
And I often point out that even those who have not yet embarked on puberty themselves are likely to have classmates who are going through these changes, so, again, its important to let kids know that their questions are welcome, and will be answered accurately.
But like everybody else who deals with girls, Im aware that this means bringing up the topic when girls are pretty young.
Puberty is now coming earlier for many girls, with bodies changing in the third and fourth grade, and there is a complicated discussion about the reasons, from obesity and family stress to chemicals in the environment that may disrupt the normal effects of hormones.
Im not going to try to delineate that discussion here  though its an important one  because I want to concentrate on the effect, rather than the cause, of reaching puberty early.
A large study published in May in the journal Pediatrics looked at a group of 8,327 children born in Hong Kong in April and May of 1997, for whom a great deal of health data has been collected.
The researchers had access to the childrens health records, showing how their doctors had documented their physical maturity, according to what are known as the Tanner stages, for the standardized pediatric index of sexual maturation.
Before children enter puberty, we call it Tanner I; for girls, Tanner II is the beginning of breast development, while for boys, its the enlargement of the scrotum and testes and the reddening and changing of the scrotum skin.
Boys and girls then progress through the intermediate changes to stage V, full physical maturity.
In this study, the researchers looked at the relationship between the age at which children moved from Tanner I to Tanner II  that is, the age at which the physical beginnings of puberty were noticed  and the likelihood of depression in those children when they were 12 to 15 years old, as detected on a screening questionnaire.
What we found was the girls who had earlier breast development had a higher risk of depressive symptoms, or more depressive symptoms, said Dr. C. Mary Schooling, an epidemiologist who is a professor at the City University of New York School of Public Health, and was the senior author on the study.
We didnt see the same thing for boys.
Earlier onset of breast development in girls was associated with a higher risk of depression in early adolescence even after controlling for many other factors, including socioeconomic status, weight or parents marital status.
Other studies, including in the United States, have shown this same pattern, with girls who begin developing earlier than their peers vulnerable to depression in adolescence.
Some studies have found this in boys, though its not as clear.
But there is concern that girls whose development starts earlier than their peers are at risk in a number of ways, and across different cultural backgrounds.
Early puberty is a challenge and a stress, and its associated with more than depression, said Dr. Jane Mendle, a clinical psychologist in the department of human development at Cornell University.
She named anxiety, disordered eating and self-injury as some of the risks for girls.
In her studies of puberty, she has found associations between early development and depression in both genders in New York children.
In boys, the tempo of puberty was significant, as well as the timing; boys who moved more rapidly from one Tanner stage to the next were at higher risk and the increased depression risk seemed to be related to changes in their peer relationships.
Before puberty, Dr. Mendle said, depression occurs at roughly the same rate in both sexes, but by the midpoint of puberty, girls are two and a half times more likely to be depressed than boys.
Some of these children may already be at risk; Dr. Mendle said that early puberty is more common in children who have grown up in circumstances of adversity, in poverty, in the foster care system.
But some of it is heredity and some of it is body type and some of it, probably, is chance.
Researchers have wondered about hormonal associations with depression; Dr.
Schooling pointed out that their study found that depression was associated with early breast development, controlled by estrogens, but not with early pubic hair development, controlled by androgens.
There is no physical factor that we know about that would explain this; estrogen has been eliminated as a driver of depression in earlier research, she said in an email.
We probably need to explore social factors to seek an explanation.
They also plan to follow up with their study population at age 17.
The biological transition of puberty, of course, occurs in a social and cultural context.
One very important effect of developing early, Dr. Mendle said, is that it changes the way that people treat you, from your peers to the adults in your life to strangers.
When kids navigate puberty they start to look different, she said.
It can be hard for them to maintain friendships with kids who havent developed, and we also know that early maturing girls are more likely to be harassed and victimized by other kids in their grade.
Parents should be aware of the difficulties that children may experience if they start puberty earlier than their peers, but lots of children handle early development with resiliency, and even pride.
Children who start puberty early  say, 8 instead of 12  are faced with handling those physical changes while they are more childlike in their knowledge and their cognitive development, and in their emotional understanding of what goes on around them.
Parents should keep in mind that the same protective factors that help children navigate other challenges of growing up are helpful here: All children do better when they have good relationships with their parents, and when they feel connected at school.
And we should be talking about the changes to their bodies before they happen, and make it clear that all of these topics are open for discussion.
Related:

Sign up for the Well Family newsletter to get the latest news on parenting, child health and relationships with advice from our experts to help every family live well.
Video

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
No doubt in the course of your life, you did something, or failed to do something, that left you feeling guilty or ashamed.
What if that something was in such violation of your moral compass that you felt unable to forgive yourself, undeserving of happiness, perhaps even unfit to live?
That is the fate of an untold number of servicemen and women who served in Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam and other wars.
Many participated in, witnessed or were unable to help in the face of atrocities, from failing to aid an injured person to killing a child, by accident or in self-defense.
For some veterans, this leaves emotional wounds that time refuses to heal.
It radically changes them and how they deal with the world.
It has a name: moral injury.
Unlike a better known casualty of war, post-traumatic stress disorder, or PTSD, moral injury is not yet a recognized psychiatric diagnosis, although the harm it inflicts is as bad if not worse.
The problem is highlighted in a new documentary called Almost Sunrise, which will be shown next weekend at the Human Rights Watch Film Festival in New York and on June 23 and 24 at AFI Docs in Washington, D.C.
The film depicts the emotional agony and self-destructive aftermath of moral injury and follows two sufferers along a path that alleviates their psychic distress and offers hope for eventual recovery.
Photo

Therapists both within and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs increasingly recognize moral injury as the reason so many returning vets are self-destructive and are not helped, or only partly helped, by established treatments for PTSD.
Moral injury has some of the symptoms of PTSD, especially anger, depression, anxiety, nightmares, insomnia and self-medication with drugs or alcohol.
And it may benefit from some of the same treatments.
But moral injury has an added burden of guilt, grief, shame, regret, sorrow and alienation that requires a very different approach to reach the core of a sufferers psyche.
Unlike the soldiers who were drafted to serve in Vietnam, the members of the armed forces today chose to enlist.
Those deployed to Iraq thought at first they were fighting to bring democracy to the country, then were told later it was to win hearts and minds.
But to many of those in battle, the real effect was to terrorize people, as one veteran says in the film.
Another said, Thats not what we signed up for.
That war can be morally compromising is not a new idea and has been true in every war.
But the therapeutic community is only now becoming aware of the dimensions of moral injury and how it can be treated.
Father Thomas Keating, a founding member of Contemplative Outreach, says in the film, Antidepressants dont reach the depth of what these men are feeling, that they did something terribly wrong and dont know if they can be forgiven.
The first challenge, though, is to get emotionally damaged veterans to acknowledge their hidden agony and seek professional help instead of trying to suppress it, often by engaging in self-destructive behaviors.
A lot of vets wont seek help because whats haunting them are not heroic acts, or they were betrayed, or they cant live with themselves because they made a mistake, said Brett Litz, a mental health specialist with the V.A.
Boston Healthcare System and a leading expert on moral injury.
The second challenge is to win their trust, to reassure them that they will not be judged and are deserving of forgiveness.
Therapists who study and treat moral injury have found that no amount of medication can relieve the pain of trying to live with an unbearable moral burden.
They say those suffering from moral injury contribute significantly to the horrific toll of suicide among returning vets  estimated as high as 18 to 22 a day in the United States, more than the number lost in combat.
The film features two very troubled veterans of the war in Iraq, Tom Voss and Anthony Anderson, who decide to walk from Milwaukee to Los Angeles  2,700 miles taking 155 days  to help them heal from the combat experiences that haunt them and threaten to destroy their most valued relationships.
Six years after returning from his second deployment in Iraq, Mr. Voss said of his mental state before taking the cross-country trek, If anything, its worse now.
Along the way, the two men raise awareness of the unrelenting pain of moral injury many vets face and encourage them to seek treatment.
Mr. Voss and Mr. Anderson were helped by a number of counselors and treatments, including a Native American spiritual healer and a meditative technique called power breathing.
They also found communing with nature to be restorative, enabling them to again recognize beauty in the world.
Shira Maguen, a research psychologist and clinician at the San Francisco V.A.
Medical Center, who studies and treats vets suffering from moral injury, said, We have a big focus on self-forgiveness.
We have them write a letter to the person they killed or to a younger version of themselves.
We focus on making amends, planning for their future and moving forward, especially important since many think they have no future.
Dr. Maguen, who studied how killing during combat affects suicidal ideation in returning vets, found that those who had killed were at much higher risk of suicide, even when controlling for factors like PTSD, depression and alcohol and drug abuse.
She said in an interview that decades after the Vietnam War, there was still an impact on veterans who killed enemy combatants, and an even stronger effect on those who killed women and children.
Photo

To overcome veterans reluctance to seek help for moral injury, Dr. Maguen incorporates mental health care into routine clinical visits.
In Boston, Dr. Litz and colleagues are testing a therapeutic approach called adaptive disclosure, a technique akin to confession.
With eyes closed, the vets are asked to verbally share vivid details of their trauma with an imagined compassionate person who loves them, then imagine how that person would respond.
The therapist guides the conversation along a path toward healing.
Disclosing, sharing, confessing is fundamental to repair, Dr. Litz said.
In doing so, the vets learn that what happened to them can be tolerated, theyre not rejected.
They are also encouraged to engage in the world in a way that is repairing  for example, by helping children or writing letters.
The goal is to find forgiveness within themselves or from others.
One fact that all agree on: The process is a lengthy one.
As Mr. Voss said, I knew after the walk I still had a long road of healing ahead of me.
Now, however, he has some useful tools and he shares them freely.
Related:

For more fitness, food and wellness news, follow us on Facebook and Twitter, or sign up for our newsletter.
Think Like a Doctor Solve a medical mystery with Dr. Lisa Sanders.
On Thursday, we challenged Well readers to solve the case of a previously healthy 67-year-old gardener who abandoned his garden one summer, alarming his wife and adult children.
For weeks this vibrant and energetic man had been the last one out of bed  something his family had never seen before.
And his days were interrupted each afternoon with a fever that left him shaking and pale.
More than 300 readers suggested diagnoses for this classic presentation of an unusual disease, and a couple dozen of you nailed it.
The correct diagnosis is

Babesiosis

The first person to identify this unusual infection was Dr. Paige Szymanowski, a resident in her second year of training in internal medicine at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
She said she recognized the pattern of a fever with a low blood count, low platelet count and evidence of liver injury.
Dr. Szymanowski hasnt made up her mind what kind of doctor shes going to be, but she is thinking of subspecializing in infectious diseases.
I think she shows real promise in this area.
Well done!
The Diagnosis

Babesiosis is caused by the parasite Babesia microti, a protozoa.
It is usually transmitted by Ixodes scapularis, better known as the deer tick, the same small arthropod that transmits Lyme disease.
Sometimes the two diseases occur together, passed on in the same bite.
The disease can also be spread through blood transfusions from an infected donor.
Babesiosis is rare and occurs primarily in the Northeast and Upper Midwest  Minnesota and Wisconsin  regions of the United States.
In healthy people it often causes no symptoms.
However, those who are over 65 or who have some type of immune suppression  because of a chronic disease or medication  or those who dont have a spleen are more likely to develop symptoms and can become quite ill or even die from this infection.
Easy to Miss

Babesiosis is difficult to diagnose, and the diagnosis is often overlooked, even in areas where infection is most common.
Patients with babesiosis have few, if any, localizing signs to suggest the disease.
Fever  which can be constant or, as was the case with this patient, intermittent  is common.
So are shaking, chills, fatigue, loss of appetite, abdominal pain and headache.
These symptoms, however, are seen in many infections.
And indeed, our patient had all of these symptoms, but it took many weeks for him to get a diagnosis.
The diagnosis is confirmed when the ring form of the protozoa is seen on a blood smear, or when the Babesia DNA is detected in the blood.
Doxycycline, which is used to treat other tick-borne diseases, is ineffective against this organism.
An antimalarial medication (atovaquone) plus an antibiotic (azithromycin) are first-line treatments against this infection.
Improvement is usually seen within 48 hours of starting the drugs.
Although the infection will often resolve without treatment, all who are diagnosed with the disease should be treated since, in rare cases, the bug will persist and become symptomatic if a patient later develops some immune system problem or has his spleen removed.
How the Diagnosis Was Made

Dr. Neil Gupta was leading the daytime on-call team at Saint Raphaels hospital in New Haven, Conn., where the patients daughter had taken him.
Dr. Gupta heard about this patient when the night team handed off the patients they had admitted on their shift and met him that morning.
Seeing how well the patient looked, and hearing that hed been given the usually benign diagnosis of hepatitis A, he turned his attention to patients who seemed sicker and more in need of thought and care.
Until the patient spiked his usual afternoon fever.
One of the ways the doctors mind works is to put together pictures of what a disease looks like in a patient.
We put these so-called illness scripts together based on our knowledge of the disease plus the patients we have seen who have had it.
When Dr. Gupta heard that the patient had spiked a temperature, he went back to see how he was doing.
The patient was pleasant but didnt say much.
Perhaps there was a language barrier  he spoke with a thick Italian accent.
Or perhaps he was one of those patients who just dont focus on what ails them.
Hearing From the Patients Family

The patients wife and daughter, however, had been much more attuned to the changes in his health and behavior, and what they reported didnt really sound like hepatitis.
Was this the right diagnosis, Dr. Gupta wondered?
He sat down with the family in the nursing lounge and let them tell the whole story as they recalled it.
The man had actually been sick for several weeks.
Hed had a fever every day.
And he was tired.
Normally he never sat down, was never idle.
These days it seemed he never left the house anymore.
Never went into the garden.
He just sat on the sofa.
For hours.
Sometimes he had pain in his upper abdomen, but never any nausea; he had never vomited.
But he did have a cough.
This was not the man they knew, the women told him.
Reviewing the Symptoms

Dr. Gupta returned to the patient and examined him, this time quite carefully, looking for the signs common in hep A.
The mans skin was dark but not yellow; and his eyes, while appearing tired, showed no hint of yellow either.
His liver was not enlarged or tender.
He didnt look to Dr. Gupta like a patient who had hepatitis A.
The patient did have tests that were positive for hepatitis A, however.
Could these tests be wrong?
Dr. Gupta suspected that was the case.
O.K., if not hepatitis A, what did he have?
The young internist made a list of the key components of the case: He had recurring fevers every afternoon.
He had a cough and some upper abdominal pain.
Not very specific  except for the repeating fevers.
The labs were a little more helpful.
His liver showed signs of very mild injury  again, not consistent with hepatitis A, which usually causes significant liver insult.
However, he did have a mild anemia that had gotten worse over the past three days.
Hed had his blood count drawn two days earlier, when he went to the emergency room at YaleNew Haven Hospital.
That showed a very mild anemia  slightly fewer red blood cells than normal.
The evening before, the patients red blood cell count had dropped further.
And today, even further.
So his red blood cells were being destroyed somehow.
To Dr. Gupta, that seemed to be a second important clue.
In addition, his platelets were quite low.
Many Possiblities

So, the patient had cyclic fevers, a worsening anemia and a mild liver injury.
That suggested a very different set of diseases.
The patient was a gardener and had been treated for Lyme disease.
Could he have a different tick-borne illness?
Certainly a number of illnesses could present this way.
The cyclic fevers were suggestive of malaria  rare in this country, but still worth thinking about.
Could this be mononucleosis?
Or even H.I.V.?
Those diseases can affect red blood cells and the liver.
And they can last weeks or months.
If those tests were negative, he would need to start looking for autoimmune diseases or cancers.
Finally, he would need to review the blood smear with the pathologist.
Several of these diseases can provide clues when you look at the blood itself.
An Answer in the Blood

A call came to Dr. Gupta late the next day.
The pathologist had tested the patients blood for the presence of the Babesia gene, and found it.
The patient had babesiosis.
Dr. Gupta went down to look at the blood smear with the pathologist.
There, in the middle of a sea of normal looking red blood cells, was a tiny pear-shaped object.
It was one of the protozoa.
Dr. Gupta was excited.
He pulled up a picture of the tick that spreads the disease and the tiny bug that causes it to show to the family.
This was what was making the patient so very sick.
How the Patient Fared

The patient was started on the two medications to treat babesiosis the same day.
Twenty-four hours later he spent his first day completely fever-free  the first in several weeks.
After a couple more days, the patient was up and walking around, asking to go home.
He went home the following day, with instructions to take his two medications twice a day for a total of 10 days.
That was last summer.
This summer, the patient is back in his garden.
He is a little more careful to avoid getting tick bites.
He wears his long pants tucked into his socks and his wife looks him over every night  just to be sure.
Photo

Personal Health Jane Brody on health and aging.
Lenore Skenazy, a New York City mother of two, earned the sobriquet Americas Worst Mom after reporting in a newspaper column that she had allowed her younger son, then 9, to ride the subway alone.
The damning criticism she endured, including a threat of arrest for child endangerment, intensified her desire to encourage anxious parents to give their children the freedom they need to develop the self-confidence and resilience to cope effectively with lifes many challenges.
One result was the publication in 2009 of her book Free Range Kids: How to Raise Safe, Self-Reliant Children (Without Going Nuts With Worry).
A second result is the Free Range Kids Project and a 13-part series, starting Thursday on Discovery Life Channel, called Worlds Worst Mom.
In it, Ms. Skenazy intervenes to rescue bubble-wrapped kids from their overprotective parents by guiding the children safely through a sequence of once-forbidden activities and showing their anxious parents how well the children perform and how proud they are of what they accomplished.
The term helicopter parents applies to far more than those who hover relentlessly over their childrens academic and musical development.
As depicted in the first episode of the series, it applies to 10-year-old Sams very loving mother who wouldnt let him ride a bike (shes afraid Ill fall and get hurt), cut up his own meat (Mom thinks Ill cut my fingers off), or play rough sports like skating.
The plea from a stressed-out, thwarted Sam: I just want to do things by myself.
In an interview, Ms. Skenazy said, Having been brainwashed by all the stories we hear, theres a prevailing fear that any time youre not directly supervising your child, youre putting the child in danger.
The widespread publicity now given to crimes has created an exaggerated fear of the dangers children face if left to navigate and play on their own.
Yet, according to Peter Gray, a research psychologist at Boston College, the actual rate of strangers abducting or molesting children is very small.
Its more likely to happen at the hands of a relative or family friend.
The statistics show no increase in childhood dangers.
If anything, theres been a decrease.
Experts say there is no more crime against children by strangers today  and probably significantly less  than when I was growing up in the 1940s and 50s, a time when I walked to school alone and played outdoors with friends unsupervised by adults.
The world is not perfect  it never was  but we used to trust our children in it, and they learned to be resourceful, Ms. Skenazy said.
The message these anxious parents are giving to their children is I love you, but I dont believe in you.
I dont believe youre as competent as I am.
Dr. Gray, author of Free to Learn: Why Unleashing the Instinct to Play Will Make Our Children Happier, More Self-Reliant, and Better Students for Life, said in an interview, If children are not allowed to take routine risks, theyll be less likely to be able to handle real risks when they do occur.
Case in point: His colleges counseling office has seen a doubling in the rate of emergency calls in the last five years, mainly for problems kids used to solve on their own, like being called a bad name by a roommate or finding a mouse in the room.
Students are prepared academically, but theyre not prepared to deal with day-to-day life, which comes from a lack of opportunity to deal with ordinary problems, Dr. Gray said.
Over the past 60 years, theres been a huge change, well documented by social scientists, in the hours a day children play outdoors  less than half as much as parents did at their childrens ages, he said.
In decades past, children made up their own games and acquired important life skills in the process.
In pickup games, Dr. Gray said, children make the rules, negotiate, and figure out whats fair to keep everyone happy.
They develop creativity, empathy and the ability to read the minds of other players, instead of having adults make the rules and solve all the problems.
Dr. Gray links the astronomical rise in childhood depression and anxiety disorders, which are five to eight times more common than they were in the 1950s, to the decline in free play among young children.
Young people today are less likely to have a sense of control over their own lives and more likely to feel they are the victims of circumstances, which is predictive of anxiety and depression, he said.
There are also physical consequences to restricting childrens outdoor play because there are no adults available to supervise it.
Children today spend many more hours indoors than in years past, which in part accounts for the rise in childhood obesity and Type 2 diabetes.
Many elementary schools have even canceled recess, believing it is time better spent cramming childrens heads with facts and figures.
Childhood should be a time of freedom and play, not building a rsum for college, Dr. Gray said.
As Ms. Skenazy put it, if parents truly believe children must be supervised every second of the day, then they cant walk to school, play in the park, or wake up Saturday morning, get on their bikes and go have an adventure.
Some 2,000 families were screened by the Discovery Life Channel to find 13 families crippled by anxiety yet willing to have an intervention.
The parents werent easy pushovers, Ms. Skenazy said.
Some were very unhappy to see me at first.
But once pride in what their children achieved replaced their fears, they were ecstatic  relaxed and happy instead of crippled with fear.
Ms. Skenazy spent four days with each family, introducing a different challenge each day.
Sam learned to cut cheese and slice a tomato with a sharp knife and then made sandwiches for his parents.
He also learned to ride a two-wheeler.
I dont guarantee Ill take away all their worry, just give them the confidence to loosen the reins on their kids, she said.
Kids need roots and wings.
Parents give them roots.
I give them wings.
I've been reading a lot about rebounding as an excellent exercise for all ages.
The benefits seem almost miraculous, but I don't find any articles in Well about this form of exercise.
Have you looked into it?
A

Many websites do tout almost miraculous benefits from jumping on a rebounder or, as it is also known, a minitrampoline, claiming that such workouts improve fitness, build bone, spur lymphatic drainage, fight depression, and goose the health of every cell in your body, since they supposedly experience beneficial G-force pressure during a workout.
These claims are unproven.
Enthusiasts often cite a 1980 study by NASA scientists showing that rebounding required more effort than running while it was gentler on joints.
More recent science disagrees.
By most estimates, rebound exercise is, at best, aerobically mild, requiring less effort than bowling and about the same as playing croquet.
Even competitive trampoline athletes get less of a workout per minute than most runners.
There also is little or no scientific evidence that rebounding benefits the lymph system, bones, mood or cellular health.
But rebounding does improve balance in older people.
A study published in November in the Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics found that older women were less wobbly after 12 weeks of gentle, supervised rebounding exercise, although women who completed standard balance training showed similar improvement.
Exercising on a trampoline, even a mini one, also has risks.
Trampoline-related injuries send many people to emergency rooms or orthopedists every year,epidemiological studies show.
Interestingly, in adults, trampoline injuries typically involve joint sprains, while small children tend to tumble off and require stitches.
The upshot: If you decide to use a rebounder, exercise caution, and if your primary goal is fitness, consider bowling, a safer activity that requires more physiological effort.
And now, against all odds, his cancer is in remission and has been since last fall.
While no one can say that Dr. Wartman is cured, after facing certain death last fall, he is alive and doing well.
Dr. Wartman is a pioneer in a new approach to stopping cancer.
What is important, medical researchers say, is the genes that drive a cancer, not the tissue or organ  liver or brain, bone marrow, blood or colon  where the cancer originates.
One womans breast cancer may have different genetic drivers from another womans and, in fact, may have more in common with prostate cancer in a man or another patients lung cancer.
Under this new approach, researchers expect that treatment will be tailored to an individual tumors mutations, with drugs, eventually, that hit several key aberrant genes at once.
The cocktails of medicines would be analogous to H.I.V.
treatment, which uses several different drugs at once to strike the virus in a number of critical areas.
Researchers differ about how soon the method, known as whole genome sequencing, will be generally available and paid for by insurance  estimates range from a few years to a decade or so.
But they believe that it has enormous promise, though it has not yet cured anyone.
With a steep drop in the costs of sequencing and an explosion of research on genes, medical experts expect that genetic analyses of cancers will become routine.
Just as pathologists do blood cultures to decide which antibiotics will stop a patients bacterial infection, so will genome sequencing determine which drugs might stop a cancer.
Until you know what is driving a patients cancer, you really dont have any chance of getting it right, Dr. Ley said.
For the past 40 years, we have been sending generals into battle without a map of the battlefield.
What we are doing now is building the map.
Large drug companies and small biotechs are jumping in, starting to test drugs that attack a gene rather than a tumor type.
Photo

Leading cancer researchers are starting companies to find genes that might be causing an individuals cancer to grow, to analyze genetic data and to find and test new drugs directed against these genetic targets.
Leading venture capital firms are involved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For now, whole genome sequencing is in its infancy and dauntingly complex.
The gene sequences are only the start  they come in billions of small pieces, like a huge jigsaw puzzle.
The arduous job is to figure out which mutations are important, a task that requires skill, experience and instincts.
So far, most who have chosen this path are wealthy and well connected.
When Steve Jobs had exhausted other options to combat pancreatic cancer, he consulted doctors who coordinated his genetic sequencing and analysis.
It cost him $100,000, according to his biographer.
The writer Christopher Hitchens went to the head of the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Francis Collins, who advised him on where to get a genetic analysis of his esophageal cancer.
Harvard Medical School expects eventually to offer whole genome sequencing to help cancer patients identify treatments, said Heidi L. Rehm, who heads the molecular medicine laboratory at Harvards Partners Healthcare Center for Personalized Genetic Medicine.
But later this year, Partners will take a more modest step, offering whole genome sequencing to patients with a suspected hereditary disorder in hopes of identifying mutations that might be causing the disease.
Whole genome sequencing of the type that Dr. Wartman had, Dr. Rehm added, is a whole other level of complexity.
Dr. Wartman was included by his colleagues in a research study, and his genetic analysis was paid for by the university and research grants.
Such opportunities are not available to most patients, but Dr. Ley noted that the group had done such an analysis for another patient the year before and that no patients were being neglected because of the urgent work to figure out Dr. Wartmans cancer.
The precedent for moving quickly on a sample to make a key decision was already established, Dr. Ley said.
Ethicists ask whether those with money and connections should have options far out of reach for most patients before such treatments become a normal part of medicine.
And will people of more limited means be tempted to bankrupt their families in pursuit of a cure at the far edges?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If we say we need research because this is a new idea, then why is it that rich people can even access it?
asked Wylie Burke, professor and chairwoman of the department of bioethics at the University of Washington.
The saving grace, she said, is that the method will become available to all if it works.
A Life in Medicine

It was pure happenstance that landed Dr. Wartman in a university at the forefront of cancer research.
He grew up in small-town Indiana, aspiring to be a veterinarian like his grandfather.
But in college, he worked summers in hospitals and became fascinated by cancer.
He enrolled in medical school at Washington University in St. Louis, where he was drawn to research on genetic changes that occur in cancers of the blood.
Dr. Wartman knew then what he wanted to do  become a physician researcher.
Those plans fell apart in the winter of 2002, his last year of medical school, when he went to California to be interviewed for a residency program at Stanford.
On the morning of his visit, he was nearly paralyzed by an overwhelming fatigue.
I could not get out of bed for an interview that was the most important of my life, Dr. Wartman recalled.
Somehow, he forced himself to drive to Palo Alto in a drenching rain.
He rallied enough to get through the day.
Photo

When he returned to St. Louis, he gave up running, too exhausted for the sport he loved.
He started having night sweats.
I thought it might be mono, he said.
And I thought I would ride it out.
But then the long bones in his legs began to hurt.
He was having fevers.
He was so young then  only 25  and had always been so healthy that his only doctor was a pediatrician.
So he went to an urgent care center in February 2003.
The doctor there thought his symptoms might come from depression, but noticed that his red and white blood cell counts were low.
And Lukas Wartman, who had been fascinated by the biology of leukemia, began to suspect he had it.
I was definitely scared, he said.
It was so unreal.
The next day, Mr. Wartman, who was about to graduate from Washington Universitys medical school, went back there for more tests.
A doctor slid a long needle into his hip bone and drew out marrow for analysis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We looked at the slide together, Dr. Wartman said, recalling that terrible time.
It was packed with leukemia cells.
I was in a state of shock.
Dr. Wartman remained at the university for his residency and treatment: nine months of intensive chemotherapy, followed by 15 months of maintenance chemotherapy.
Five years passed when the cancer seemed to be gone.
But then it came back.
Next came the most risky remedy  intensive chemotherapy to put the cancer into remission followed by a bone-marrow transplant from his younger brother.
Seven months after the transplant, feeling much stronger, he went to a major cancer meeting and sat in on a session on his type of leukemia.
The speaker, a renowned researcher, reported that only 4 or 5 percent of those who relapsed survived.
My stomach turned, Dr. Wartman said.
I will never forget the shock of hearing that number.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But his personal gauge of recovery  how far he could run  was encouraging.
By last spring, three years after his transplant, Dr. Wartman was running six to seven miles every other day and feeling good.
I thought maybe I would run a half marathon in the fall.
Then the cancer came back.
He remembered that number, 4 or 5 percent, for patients with one relapse.
He had relapsed a second time.
This time, he said, There is no number.
His doctors put him on a clinical trial to try to beat the cancer with chemotherapy and hormones.
It did not work.
They infused him with his brothers healthy marrow cells, to no avail.
A Clue in RNA

Dr. Wartmans doctors realized then that their last best hope for saving him was to use all the genetic know-how and technology at their disposal.
Photo

After their month of frantic work to beat cancers relentless clock, the group, led by Richard Wilson and Elaine Mardis, directors of the universitys genome institute, had the data.
It was Aug. 31.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The cancers DNA had, as expected, many mutations, but there was nothing to be done about them.
There were no drugs to attack them.
But the other analysis, of the cancers RNA, was different.
There was something there, something unexpected.
The RNA sequencing showed that a normal gene, FLT3, was wildly active in the leukemia cells.
Its normal role is to make cells grow and proliferate.
An overactive FLT3 gene might be making Dr. Wartmans cancer cells multiply so quickly.
Even better, there was a drug, sunitinib or Sutent, approved for treating advanced kidney cancer, that inhibits FLT3.
But it costs $330 a day, and Dr. Wartmans insurance company would not pay for it.
He appealed twice to his insurer and lost both times.
He also pleaded with the drugs maker, Pfizer, to give him the drug under its compassionate use program, explaining that his entire salary was only enough to pay for 7  months of Sutent.
But Pfizer turned him down too.
As September went by, Dr. Wartman was getting panicky.
Every day is a roller coaster, he said at the time, and everything is up in the air.
Desperate to try the drug, he scraped up the money to buy a weeks worth and began taking it on Sept. 16.
Within days, his blood counts were looking more normal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But over dinner at a trendy St. Louis restaurant, he picked at his chicken and said he was afraid to hope.
Obviously its exciting, he said.
But Sutent could have unanticipated effects on my bone marrow.
Maybe his rising red blood cell counts were just a side effect of the drug.
Or maybe they were just a coincidence.
Its hard to say if I feel any different, Dr. Wartman said.
And the cost of the drug nagged at him.
If it worked, how long could he afford to keep taking it?
Photo

The next day, a nurse at the hospital pharmacy called with what seemed miraculous news: a months supply of Sutent was waiting for Dr. Wartman.
He did not know at the time, but the doctors in his division had pitched in to buy the drug.
Two weeks later, his bone marrow, which had been full of leukemia cells, was clean, a biopsy showed.
Still, he was nervous.
The test involved taking out just a small amount of marrow.
Cancer cells could be lurking unseen.
The next test was flow cytometry, which used antibodies to label cancer cells.
Again, there were no cancer cells.
But even flow cytometry could be misleading, Dr. Wartman told himself.
Finally, a yet more sensitive test, called FISH, was done.
It labels cancer cells with fluorescent pieces of DNA to identify leukemia cells.
Once again, there were none.
I cant believe it, his awe-struck physician, Dr. John DiPersio, told him.
Dr. Wartman, alone in his apartment, waited for his partner, Damon Berardi, to come home from work.
That evening, Mr. Berardi, a 31-year-old store manager, opened the door with no idea of Dr. Wartmans momentous news.
To his surprise, Dr. Wartman was home early, waiting in the kitchen with champagne and two flutes he had given Mr. Berardi for Christmas.
He told Mr. Berardi he should sit down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

My leukemia is in remission, he said.
The men embraced exultantly, and Dr. Wartman popped open the champagne.
I felt an overwhelming sense of relief and a renewed vision of our future together, Mr. Berardi said.
There were no tears at that moment.
We had both had cried plenty.
This was a moment of hope.
Hunches and Decisions

Dr. Wartman and his doctors had fateful decisions to make, with nothing but hunches to guide them.
Should he keep taking Sutent or have another bone-marrow transplant now that he was in remission again?
In the end, Dr. DiPersio decided Dr. Wartman should have the transplant because without it the cancer might mutate and escape the Sutent.
Meanwhile, Pfizer had decided to give him the drug.
Dr. Wartman has no idea why.
Perhaps the company was swayed by an impassioned plea from his nurse practitioner, Stephanie Bauer.
Dr. Wartmans cancer is still gone, for now, but he has struggled with a common complication of bone-marrow transplants, in which the white blood cells of the transplanted marrow attack his cells as though they were foreign.
He has had rashes and felt ill.
But these complications are gradually lessening, and he is back at work in Dr. Leys lab.
His colleagues want to look for the same mutation in the cancer cells of other patients with his cancer.
And they would like to start a clinical trial testing Sutent to discover whether the drug can help others with leukemia, or whether the solution they found was unique to Lukas Wartman.
Dr. Wartman himself is left with nagging uncertainties.
He knows how lucky he is, but what does the future hold?
Can he plan a life?
Is he cured?
Its a hard feeling to describe, he said.
I am in uncharted waters.
Monday: Promise and heartbreak.
Rwanda has been so successful at fighting measles that next month it will be the first country to get donor support to move to the next stage  fighting rubella too.
On March 11, it will hold a nationwide three-day vaccination campaign with a combined measles-rubella vaccine, hoping to reach nearly five million children up to age 14.
It will then integrate the dual vaccine into its national health service.
Rwanda can do so because theyve done such a good job on measles, said Christine McNab, a spokeswoman for the Measles and Rubella Initiative.
M.R.I.
helped pay for previous vaccination campaigns in the country and the GAVI Alliance is helping to finance the upcoming one.
Rubella, also called German measles, causes a rash that is very similar to the measles rash, making it hard for health workers to tell the difference.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Rubella is generally mild, even in children, but in pregnant women, it can kill the fetus or cause serious birth defects, including blindness, deafness, mental retardation and chronic heart damage.
Scientists have created new strains of polio intended to protect workers in factories that make polio vaccine.
The new strains have the same ability to invoke an immune reaction as the live viruses now used to make vaccine do, but there is virtually no risk anyone will get polio if one of the new strains somehow escapes.
The research team, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, is led by Eckard A. F. Wimmer, a molecular geneticist who made headlines in 1991 when he synthesized polio virus in the lab from its chemical components, the first time a virus had been made outside of living cells.
The world is very close to eliminating polio, which is now endemic to only three countries: Afghanistan, Nigeria and Pakistan.
But to be sure the disease is gone, children will have to be vaccinated for several years after the last detected case.
Currently, factories making the injectable Salk vaccine used in the United States and Europe start with the dangerous wild-type viruses known as Types 1, 2 and 3.
After growing a large batch, vaccine makers kill the virus with formaldehyde and prepare it for syringes.
The finished product is safe, but if the growing live viruses ever escaped because of a leak, an explosion, an earthquake, a tsunami, a flood, Dr. Wimmer said, the spill could spread like wildfire.
Photo

Right now, polio eradication depends on large sweeps by volunteers putting drops of the oral Sabin vaccine into childrens mouths.
It is easy to give, and it produces better immunity because it reaches the intestines, which are lined with receptors for the virus.
