Story highlights Trump expressed misgivings even before Luther Strange's loss

It's increased his ire against McConnell

Trump deleted a series of tweets backing Strange

(CNN) Returning from a high-dollar fundraiser in Manhattan on Tuesday evening, an infuriated President Donald Trump watched aboard Air Force One as Fox News called the Alabama Senate primary for Roy Moore against Trump's favored candidate, Luther Strange.
What ensued was a barrage of angry venting at his political team and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who had consolidated establishment GOP support behind Strange.
Trump, officials and informal advisers say, felt misled by McConnell and his political team, who encouraged him to endorse and campaign for Strange.
Even before Strange's loss on Tuesday, Trump expressed misgivings about getting behind the candidate, who he deemed too "low energy."
Trump fretted the endorsement made him appear weak, cowed by an establishment that he'd openly rebuffed during his own campaign.
His concerns were only exacerbated by the endorsement of Moore by his former chief strategist Steve Bannon, who made a highly visible push for Moore as the anti-GOP-establishment candidate.
Read More
Montgomery, Alabama (CNN) All the Republican establishment's money and muscle couldn't stop culture warrior Roy Moore from ousting Sen. Luther Strange here Tuesday night.
Now, suddenly, other outsider candidates see a much bigger opening to make Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell a villain and turn the party on its head in the 2018 midterms.
"This shows it can be done," said Danny Tarkanian, who is challenging Sen. Dean Heller in Nevada's Republican primary.
"It shows the amount of money McConnell and his super PACs put in the race can't change the feeling that voters have right now."
For all the right-wing insurgency's bluster -- and despite its efforts in places like neighboring Mississippi in 2014 and Arizona last year -- a sitting GOP senator had not been toppled in a primary since Indiana's Richard Lugar in 2012.
Some in the White House and in McConnell's camp were sure that President Donald Trump's campaign stop for Strange here Friday night, coupled with the $10 million that a Mitch McConnell-aligned super PAC poured into the race, could stave off the insurgency again.
But Moore's side countered with support from Steve Bannon, the former chief strategist in Trump's White House who now sees himself as the chief tormenter of Senate Republican incumbents.
"You're going to see, in state after state after state, people that follow the model of Judge Moore that do not need to raise money from the elites," he said at Moore's victory party Tuesday night.
For both Trump -- whose tweets supporting Strange were apparently deleted Tuesday night -- and the McConnell-aligned Senate Leadership Fund super PAC, Tuesday's outcome offered a stark glimpse at the limits of their influence.
"The days have come to an end where the muscle and money from the majority can push through candidates in this new political environment," said Matt Schlapp, the American Conservative Union chairman who attended a Monday night dinner where Trump quizzed influential right-wing figures about the race.
The millions spent on TV ads propping up Strange were wasted, Schlapp said, because they only emphasized that Strange was McConnell's candidate.
"The messenger is the message.
And if the messenger lacks credibility, then the message will lack credibility," Schlapp said.
As for Strange, he said, "He was Mitch's boy and he was the governor's boy."
The Bentley factor

The central theme of Alabama's Senate race has been anti-establishment backlash.
And it began before there even was a race.
Strange was Alabama's attorney general when he was tapped by then-Gov.
Robert Bentley to temporarily fill the seat of Sen. Jeff Sessions, after he was picked to be attorney general, until the state could hold a special election.
When Moore and Rep. Mo Brooks entered the race in the spring, they made pointed reminders of how Strange had gotten the job a centerpiece of their campaigns.
"The cement had been poured on Luther Strange because of the former governor," said Mississippi-based veteran Republican operative Austin Barbour.
"That was probably the biggest issue in this race for months -- that voters in Alabama were so upset with Robert Bentley," Barbour said.
"And anybody that they associated with Robert Bentley, they didn't want anything to do with."
Early signs of trouble for Strange

Moore -- a figure whose relationships within the Alabama Republican Party span decades, and whose support from the evangelical grassroots is difficult to match -- surged in the summer, headed into the mid-August primary.
Two positive tweets and a robocall from Trump were enough to net Strange 33% in the primary.
But Moore won 39% -- pushing the two into the runoff held Tuesday.
Quickly, the third-place primary finisher Brooks' district in northern Alabama became a battleground.
Moore secured Brooks' endorsement fewer than two weeks from election day.
"We are in an epic battle between the people of Alabama who put America first and the Washington swamp that hopes to buy our Senate seat and put America last," Brooks told Republicans in Huntsville.
Hours later, Trump announced he would hold a rally in Alabama -- a state that carries psychic importance to the President, dating to an early 2016 campaign rally that drew tens of thousands.
Trump had been urged by some advisers inside and outside the White House against wading into a race where private polls showed Moore ahead.
And, speaking to an adoring crowd with many Trump-Moore voters on Friday night, the President candidly acknowledged the reality on the ground.
"I'll be honest, I might have made a mistake," Trump said.
Moore shuts the door

Throughout his campaign, Moore was careful to campaign only against McConnell -- not Trump.
He seemed to take the attack ads personally, complaining about them in interviews and at every rally.
Though he'd dodged the question early in the campaign, by its end, Moore was campaigning on a pledge to oust McConnell as Senate majority leader.
Moore twisted the knife in a Thursday night debate, just days before the election, which took place with no moderator.
Armed with opposition research notes, Moore attacked Strange for being a lobbyist and for McConnell groups' spending.
Then, he turned to Bentley -- asking Strange whether he had made a deal with the former governor and noting it again when Strange didn't directly respond.
Meanwhile, in Washington, Bannon had spent weeks urging conservative groups to rally around Moore -- as well as Tarkanian, conservative Flake challenger Kelli Ward and other anti-establishment candidates.
He ordered Breitbart.com, where he has returned as a top executive, to pour its energy into the race, amping up Moore endorsements from figures like Sarah Palin.
Bannon was on hand himself Monday night to close out Moore's campaign .
He'd also invited Nigel Farage, the British "Brexit" figure.
The two told Moore's supporters that they were there to help Trump -- by rejuvenating his movement with a shot across McConnell's bow.
"They think you're a pack of morons.
They think you're nothing but rubes," Bannon said there.
"They have no interest at all in what you have to say, what you have to think or what you want to do.
And tomorrow, you're going to get an opportunity to tell them what you think of the elites who run this country."
Drastically lower rates for businesses.
Fewer income tax rates for individuals.
A much larger standard deduction and child tax credit.
A repeal of the estate tax.
CNN obtained a copy Wednesday of a Republican framework for tax reform that has been in the works for months and will finally be presented Wednesday.
The blueprint, which President Trump will discuss in a speech Wednesday, omits many critical details and numbers that congressional tax writers will now have to decide on as they draft legislation.
It's not clear yet, however, just how closely the tax-writing committees will hew to that framework since it's been negotiated behind closed doors by just six key players from the White House, House and Senate.
And even that small group -- known as the Big Six -- took a long time to reach broad agreement.
How individual taxes would change

Reduce individual income tax rates: The framework shrinks the number of tax rates to just three from seven today.
The proposed rates are 12%, 25% and 35%.
But it will be up to the tax committees to assign income ranges to each rate.
Also, the drop in the top rate to 35% from 39.6% may not stick.
The framework gives tax legislators the "flexibility" to add a fourth rate above 35% to ensure reform keeps the tax code at least as progressive as the current system.
If 35% remains the top rate, Democrats will charge that reform is just giving a big tax cut to the wealthy.
And even though the administration says it wants reform to offer middle class tax relief, the framework calls for a 12% bottom rate, which is actually higher than today's lowest rate of 10%.
But typical families in the 10% bracket today "are expected to be better off" when all the changes under reform are considered together, the blueprint says.
Increase standard deduction: The plan doubles the standard deduction, to $24,000 for married couples and $12,000 for single filers.
Doing so would drastically reduce the number of people who opt to itemize their deductions, since the only reason to itemize is if your individual deductions combined exceed the standard.
Increase child tax credit: The framework calls for a "substantially higher" child tax credit, which today is worth $1,000 per child under 17.
It will be up to lawmakers to determine how much higher to make it.
In addition, it would raise the income thresholds for eligibility for the credit, meaning more people would qualify for it.
Get rid of valuable tax breaks: The framework proposes the elimination of most itemized deductions, including the state and local tax deduction.
It also eliminates personal exemptions, worth $4,050 per person.
So a family of four could no longer reduce their taxable income by more than $16,000.
Preserve some deductions: Again without specifics, the framework calls for lawmakers to retain tax incentives for home ownership, retirement savings, charitable giving and higher education.
But that doesn't mean lawmakers won't seek to modify the tax breaks that currently exist in these areas.
Repeal the Alternative Minimum Tax: The AMT most typically hits filers making between $200,000 and $1 million.
It was originally intended to ensure the wealthy pay at least some tax.
Kill the estate tax: What Republicans refer to as the "death tax" only affects about 0.2% of all estates -- and only those worth more than $5.5 million.
How business taxes would change

Cut corporate tax rate to 20%: Such a drastic drop from today's 35% rate would put the U.S. rate below the 22.5% average in the industrialized world.
But doing so will be expensive.
It's estimated to cost roughly $1.5 trillion over a decade.
Drop tax rates on small businesses and other pass-throughs: The top rate would be 25% down from 39.6% on the profits of so-called pass-through businesses.
A pass-through passes its profits through to partners and shareholders, who then report them on their individual returns.
The framework will recommend the committees include measures to prevent gaming, in which people try to recharacterize their wages as pass-through profits to get the lower rate.
Change how U.S. multinationals are taxed: Today, U.S. multinational firms pay a 35% tax on overseas profits when they bring them back to U.S. shores.
The framework calls for a switch to a "territorial system," where the overseas profits of U.S. companies would no longer be subject to U.S. tax, just to the tax of the government where the money was made.
The hope is that the new system will make U.S. companies more competitive with their foreign counterparts, and that they will use more of their foreign profits to invest and create jobs in the United States.
But to dissuade U.S. companies from artificially shifting their profits to low-tax (or no tax) havens, the framework also would impose a minimum foreign tax, though the rate is unspecifiied.
In addition, it would offer a low, one-time tax rate on existing overseas profits to entice companies to bring that money back too.
It's not yet clear if the tax would have to be paid even if the money isn't brought back.
-- CNN's Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report
Washington (CNN) You know a president is in trouble when he has to insist he's up to the job.
But stung by a worsening post hurricane crisis in Puerto Rico, an escalating North Korea nuclear showdown, the humiliating failure to repeal Obamacare and the stunning defeat of his favored candidate in Alabama's Republican primary, that moment has arrived for Donald Trump.
The President is being forced to deny that his Twitter blasts and culture war shots at NFL players protesting racial grievances show that he's too distracted to lead amid creating political storms.
"I've heard that before, about was I preoccupied?
Not at all, not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work," said Trump, when asked at a Rose Garden news conference whether his feud with NFL players had caused him to take his eye off the ball over the fast worsening hurricane crisis in Puerto Rico.
Given the magnitude of issues he's facing, it was not surprising that Trump sometimes seemed to be flailing Tuesday, a day of upheaval that served as a microcosm of his turbulent eight months in power that has delighted his fans but rocked much of the rest of the nation and the world.
History shows that any hints of incompetence at a time of national security crisis can deal a devastating blow to a presidency.
A sense that a White House is powerless, meanwhile, to control the political winds of Washington can be equally as damaging -- especially when a commander-in-chief is as polarizing as Trump.
But the President, while flashing characteristic defiance, also showed hints of political self-awareness suggesting he understands the gravity of his political plight as intense pressures bear down on his White House.
This White House, for all the loyalty of Trump's fervent political base, could soon find itself facing up to any of these realities if it allows the myriad crisis facing the President to spin any further out of control.
Trump's critics, for instance, warn he's about to have a Katrina moment -- as questions mount over his handling of the Hurricane Maria disaster, as the desperate plight of Puerto Rican citizens begins to emerge.
At the same time, he's taking the world closer to the brink with North Korea , exacerbating a nuclear crisis with no clear face saving exit for himself or dictator Kim Jong Un.
And he took another blow on the chin on Tuesday night, when his favored candidate lost Alabama's Republican Senate primary to Roy Moore, an iconoclast who showed up to vote on horseback and who makes his own theatrics seem tame.
Trump's administration and fellow Republicans meanwhile are staggering from yet another failure to use their monopoly on power to repeal Obamacare.
And quietly, the Russia investigation, which has haunted the Trump presidency, marched on Tuesday, when it emerged that top White House officials face questioning from special counsel Robert Mueller's probe in the coming days.
'Tremendous reviews'

JUST WATCHED Trump on Puerto Rico: Literally destroyed Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump on Puerto Rico: Literally destroyed 02:17

The most immediate political threat to the White House is posed by the situation in Puerto Rico, with the island facing power blackouts, water and food shortages, and with its infrastructure of hospitals and basic services dark.
If things get worse fast, the President may come to rue the self-congratulatory moment he created on Tuesday.
"As far as Puerto Rico is concerned ... we have had tremendous reviews from government officials, as we have in Texas and Louisiana," Trump told reporters.
"And this morning, the governor made incredible statements about how well we're doing," Trump said.
His search for personal praise was characteristic, as was his effort Monday night in a tweet to pass blame for the island's current plight as he bemoaned its old infrastructure and debts.
Trump did make the valid point that rushing hurricane relief to an island was a tougher proposition than relieving Texas and Florida after their recent monster storms.
"This is, you know, a thing called the Atlantic Ocean.
This is tough stuff," he said.
But the administration's frenetic activity Tuesday showed that it understands that if it does not get a handle on the situation quickly, Trump's response risks looking too small for the crisis.
"If the President doesn't grasp the severity of the situation this is going to be his legacy," Democratic Rep. Nydia Velazquez of New York warned.
"This is the most powerful country in the world, and this is how we treat our citizens?
Shame on us."
As pressure mounted, the White House released pictures of Trump in a Situation Room meeting on the crisis.
Acting Homeland Security Secretary Elaine Duke and FEMA administrator William Brock appeared outside the West Wing to hurriedly brief reporters on the progress of the relief effort.
Trump meanwhile announced he would go to Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
War fears

JUST WATCHED Are Trump and Kim blundering into war?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Are Trump and Kim blundering into war?
10:30

As he grappled with the rising recriminations of the hurricane, Trump also had to defend his handling of the standoff with North Korea, as critics warn that his bellicosity is making the situation worse.
Again, Trump defended himself and blamed others.
Despite last week vowing to "totally destroy" North Korea if it kept threatening the US and its allies, and warning its leaders would not last long in a weekend tweet, Trump said Kim's behavior not his own, was to blame for soaring tensions.
"He's acting very badly.
He's saying things that should never, ever be said.
And we're replying to those things, but it's a reply.
It's not an original statement, it's a reply," Trump said.
The President also slammed previous administrations for leaving him a "mess" with North Korea.
But Trump also reprised the bombastic rhetoric that is worrying US allies and key players in the crisis like China and Russia.
"If we take that option, it will be devastating -- I can tell you that -- devastating for North Korea.
That's called the military option.
If we have to take it, we will."
Humiliating loss

JUST WATCHED Trump: McCain 'no' vote is a slap in the face Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: McCain 'no' vote is a slap in the face 01:43

Trump is also dealing with his failure to rack up a single major legislative achievement.
His misfire has raised questions about his own capacity to shepherd major agenda items into law.
News that Republican senators would not vote on the latest last ditch bid to repeal Obamacare this week broke during Trump's news conference.
The President has spent days raging at GOP lawmakers for their repeated failures to send him a bill.
In a private dinner with conservative leaders on Monday , he fulminated at John McCain, one of the no votes who helped doom the bill.
The Obamacare failure also means it is even more important for Republicans to carve out a win as they now turn to tax reform this week.
But disarray in the party he leads has some wondering whether Republicans will be able ever to unite as a block to secure the kind of wins that Trump promised his supporters he would be tired of by now.
The multiple challenges bearing down on his administration help explain why Trump is showing such relish in prosecuting his feud with the NFL.
As he battles to persevere his relevance in Washington, the President needs his loyal political base more than ever.
That's especially true because he's contemplating a deal with Democrats on protections for young immigrants to follow his debt ceiling agreement with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer -- not to mention his backing for the establishment candidate in Alabama, Luther Strange.
So wrapping himself in the flag -- and tweaking racial tensions -- makes political sense and shows why he thinks it's worth obsessing over, despite everything else that's going on.
"I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL.
I was ashamed of what was taking place," he said.
"Because to me, that was a very important moment."
Story highlights Republicans again failed to get 50 senators to back their health care bill

Lawmakers are moving on to another tough lift -- tax reform

Washington (CNN) Republicans on Capitol Hill rallied around a familiar political slogan for the better part of the last seven years: "Repeal Obamacare."
They're finally leaving that chant behind -- at least for now.
GOP senators were forced to acknowledge on Tuesday that their eleventh hour push to repeal the Affordable Care Act had failed.
For the second time in two months, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell publicly conceded that he could not find 50 senators who would support partisan legislation to overhaul the Affordable Care Act, made all the more painful by the reality that Republicans control both chambers of Congress and the White House.
But unlike after the last failed attempt to repeal Obamacare in July, senators are in agreement that it is time for Republicans to move on to other things.
"Health care, as far as I am concerned, is over," said GOP Sen. Orrin Hatch, the chairman of the finance committee.
"Tax reform is where we have to do the job."
Read More
Washington (CNN) The IRS is now sharing information with special counsel Robert Mueller about key Trump campaign officials, after the two entities clashed this summer over both the scope of the investigation into Russia's meddling in the 2016 election and a raid on former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort's home, people briefed on the matter tell CNN.
Part of the concern centered on the far-reaching and broad requests from Mueller's team.
In the case of Manafort, Mueller's investigators are reaching back 11 years as they investigate possible tax and financial crimes, according to search warrant documents.
Mueller is bound by a written order issued by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in May which allows the special counsel to investigate "any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation."
After several months of being at odds, one source said, the IRS Criminal Investigation division is now sharing information about campaign associates, including Manafort and former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn.
The sharing happened after the two camps reached an agreement following consultation with officials at the Treasury Department.
CNN has learned the IRS Criminal Investigation agents had been working with the FBI to investigate Manafort since before the election in a similar probe that centered on possible money laundering and tax fraud issues, according to the sources.
It's unclear if Flynn is now or was previously under investigation by the IRS.
CNN has reported that Mueller's team is examining Flynn's payments from Turkey and Russia

A former high-level Justice Department official says the information shared would include anything tax return-related such as real estate and banking records.
The former official added the IRS is very restricted in what information it can share under Title 26 US Code and would normally need a specific grand jury subpoena in order to share tax returns with another agency.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Roy Moore's victory in the Alabama Republican Senate runoff on Tuesday makes it very likely that he will be joining the world's greatest deliberative body sometime in early 2018.
Between now and then, his soon-to-be colleagues need to come up with some better answers when questions arise about Moore's views -- up to and including his ongoing support for the Barack Obama "birther" movement and his insistence that Sharia law is in place in some communities in Illinois and Indiana.
CAMEROTA: "You know he said lots of controversial things, that President Obama is a Muslim, 10 Commandments need to be in the statehouse.
What do you think of those two things?"
JOHNSON: "Well Alisyn, no two people agree 100% of the time.
Not by a longshot.
So again, we have a pretty broad spectrum of opinion and ideology serving in our Republican conferences, certainly serving in Congress.
So, you just deal with individuals as they are.
I have found coming here to Washington, DC, there's an awful lot of stereotypes of individuals.
What exactly -- how the press portrays them is not necessarily the individual they are.
I never met Judge Moore.
I am looking forward to meeting him and hoping we can work together to address these serious challenges facing America."
Read More
Story highlights Tuesday marked a clear end to the latest campaign to try to jam through a partisan bill to gut Obamacare

Trump has called for the elimination of the filibuster before

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump vowed Wednesday morning that Republican efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act are not finished, even after the demise of the Graham-Cassidy health care bill.
"With one Yes vote in hospital & very positive signs from Alaska and two others (McCain is out), we have the HCare Vote, but not for Friday!"
the President tweeted , before adding : "We will have the votes for Healthcare but not for the reconciliation deadline of Friday, after which we need 60.
Get rid of Filibuster Rule!"
Trump did not explain who the "Yes" vote belongs to, though Sen. Thad Cochran, R-Mississippi, missed a Monday Senate vote.
His office said he was recently treated for a urological issue and is currently recuperating in Mississippi.
Tuesday marked a clear end to the latest campaign to try to jam through a partisan bill to gut the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
The budget vehicle allowing for Republicans to pass their repeal effort with a simple majority vote, as opposed to the 60 votes it usually takes to move legislation forward in the chamber, expires on September 30.
Trump has called for the elimination of the filibuster before, but Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has summarily rejected the idea.
The chamber is also relatively unified, in a bipartisan manner, against the idea, with 28 Republicans signing onto a letter with Democrats saying they wouldn't support the rule change earlier this year.
Read More
Story highlights Three tweets on Trump's account endorsing Luther Strange were deleted Tuesday night

Trump's post congratulating Moore, remained visible on his Twitter account

(CNN) President Donald Trump's most recent tweets urging Alabamians to vote for Sen. Luther Strange disappeared from his verified Twitter account Tuesday night after the candidate was projected to lose the Republican primary runoff for a Senate seat.
Three recent Trump tweets about Strange were deleted Tuesday night, according to ProPublica, which tracks deleted tweets.
This came shortly after Strange appeared headed for a loss, despite Trump's efforts to help the candidate.
The deleted tweets had touted Trump's personal endorsement of Strange.
On Tuesday morning, Trump had tweeted: "ALABAMA, get out and vote for Luther Strange - he has proven to me that he will never let you down!
#MAGA"

Read More
Obamacare lives on ... for now.
Now that Congressional Republicans have shelved their plans to repeal the health reform law, the future of Obamacare is in the White House's hands.
And it's pretty clear that the Trump administration has little desire to fix it.
At the moment, Obamacare will be available everywhere in 2018.
At times this year, it looked like tens of thousands of Americans might not have any options on their Obamacare exchanges as insurers fled the market amid the uncertainty emanating from Washington D.C.
But other carriers eventually stepped in to fill the gaps.
That could still change, however.
Insurers have until Wednesday to sign the contracts that lock them into participating next year.
Related: Senate won't vote on GOP health care bill

Meanwhile, the Department of Health & Human Services is making major changes for the upcoming open enrollment season, which begins in just five weeks.
Critics say the moves will stifle sign-ups and further weaken the law.
HHS did not immediately return a request for comment.
Here's what the Trump administration has done so far:

Shortening open enrollment: The sign-up period will run from November 1 to December 15.
That's half the length of this year's enrollment season, which ran through January 31.
The administration says the shortened period brings it more in line with the enrollment season for Medicare and employer-sponsored plans.
Also, it means policyholders will have coverage for the full year.
But opponents argue that it gives consumers less time to enroll and could dampen sign-ups among the young and healthy, who usually wait until the last minute to complete their applications.
Several states that run their own exchanges said they will extend the enrollment period.
New Yorkers, for instance, will be able to sign up through Jan. 31 -- same as this year.
Slashing advertising: HHS will spend $10 million on promotions for open enrollment this fall, compared to $100 million a year ago.
The administration justifies the budget cuts by saying it is basing advertising on effectiveness and performance.
Officials say the agency spent about $100 million last year and 9.2 million people signed up for coverage through the federal exchange, healthcare.gov.
A year earlier, the agency spent $51.2 million and 9.6 million Americans bought policies.
Obamacare supporters decry the move as sabotage, saying advertising and outreach are critical to maintaining and boosting enrollment.
In particular, promotions help attract young and healthy consumers who may not feel they need coverage.
A bipartisan coalition of governors urged the administration in August to continue to promote enrollment.
Related: Trump slashing Obamacare advertising by 90%

Reducing funding for enrollment assistance: The administration is cutting the budget for so-called navigators -- who help people sign up for coverage -- by 41%.
The 98 navigator groups will receive a total of $37 million for the coming enrollment season.
More than three-quarters of the grantees failed to achieve their enrollment goals, officials said.
This fall, navigators will receive funding based on meeting their targets.
For instance, a grantee that enrolls only 30% of its goal will receive no more than 30% of its funding from the previous year.
Navigators signed up roughly 81,500 people in 2016.
Taking the federal exchange offline: The federal exchange will be shut down from midnight until noon all but one Sunday during open enrollment.
It will also be offline overnight on November 1.
The administration said maintenance outages always occur during the sign-up period.
But former Obama officials say they happened less frequently in prior years.
Related: Plan to shut Obamacare site during open enrollment draws critics

Leaving the cost-sharing subsidies in limbo: One big thing the Trump administration hasn't announced yet is whether it will continue funding the cost-sharing subsidies, which reduce deductibles and premiums for lower-income enrollees.
Many insurers said they had to raise premiums -- and some downsized or withdrew from Obamacare for 2018 -- because of the uncertainty.
The administration made the September payment last week, but said it is still reviewing the issue.
Kaiser Health News contributed to this report.
(CNN) Hip-hop artists -- from Diddy to Killer Mike -- rallied behind Colin Kaepernick and other athletes this week after President Donald Trump urged owners of the NFL to fire the "sons of bitches" who protest the National Anthem on the field.
"THE LINE HAS BEEN CROSSED!!!!
Time to show them #blackexcellence LETS GO!"
Diddy tweeted, along with a widely shared meme that compares Trump's description of African-American players as "sons of bitches" and the President's previous suggestion that there were some "very fine people" on both sides of a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
THE LINE HAS BEEN CROSSED!!!!
Time to show them #blackexcellence LETS GO!
#teamlove REPRESENT REPRESENT!
pic.twitter.com/KM3wA098se

Diddy, who used to have a friendly relationship with Trump in the 1990s, urged fans to take action in a minute-long video posted to Twitter.
Atlanta rapper T.I., who recently spoke with CNN's #GetPolitical about police brutality, shared the same Charlotesville meme, tweeting "Who da F--- made Pennywise the President???"
in a reference to the horror reboot "It," along with a clown emoji representing its antagonist.
Trump's comments targeting African-American players who participated in National Anthem protests came while the President addressed supporters at a rally in Alabama Friday night.
The President encouraged fans to "leave the stadium" when players take a knee and urged NFL owners to respond to anthem protests by saying, "Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired.
He's fired!"
Atlanta rapper Killer Mike, who backed Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders in the 2016 election, compared Trump's comments to Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's criticism of the anthem protest last year.
Ginsburg apologized to Kaepernick last October for calling the protest "dumb and disrespectful."
"Same thinking, "Boy How dare U", no matter if it's from Ruth or Donald," the Run the Jewels rapper wrote on Instagram.
"It's all "Obey And Honor the State Over Humans".
Don't be disgusted by one and not the other tho u Son's of bitches."
Atlanta rapper David Banner defended those who take a knee, tweeting, "America doesn't give a f--- about black people so why should we pledge to a bloody ass flag.
You have never made amends for slavery."
Hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons, who wrote a letter to his "old friend" Trump during the 2016 campaign urging him to "stop fueling fires of hate," urged the NFL to stand up to Trump.
The @NFL must protect its heroes and not be intimidated by Trump's attacks.
They must be loud, unapologetic and forceful in their response.
Russell Simmons (@UncleRUSH) September 23, 2017

"The @NFL must protect its heroes and not be intimidated by Trump's attacks," he tweeted.
"They must be loud, unapologetic and forceful in their response."
These attacks against the President are part of a larger trend in hip-hop, which turned on Trump in 2016 after nearly three decades of idolizing his wealth and power in hundreds of lyrics.
Kendrick Lamar, Rapsody, Hip-hop artists have been been raising awareness about police brutality and racial inequality in both music and activism since the 1980s.
And Kaepernick, who became one of the most controversial figures in sports when he took a knee last year to protest police brutality, has since been mentioned in tens of lyrics advocating for social justice, including songs by J. Cole Eminem and Lupe Fiasco in "Kneelin' on Needles."
Kaepernick is now a free agent and has not been signed by any NFL team.
This has caused some to speculate whether the league is shunning him for his protests on the field.
Last week Jay-Z dedicated "The Story of O.J."
-- a song that the rapper said is about how "we as a culture" can empower each other economically -- to Kaepernick, the late Dick Gregory and "anyone that was held back and you overcame."
And J. Cole, who is currently one of hip-hop's most socially conscious rappers, performed in a Kaepernick jersey and helped promote the former NFL players' "Know Your Rights" campaign.
Cardi B, who is most known for her single "Bodak Yellow," threatened to boycott the NFL if they don't hire Kaepernick and gave him a shout-out while speaking on stage at the MTV Video Music Awards last month.
Thanks so much @iamcardib I appreciate you supporting the movement and @yourrightscamp pic.twitter.com/rO1402j4Fp  Colin Kaepernick (@Kaepernick7) August 28, 2017

"Thanks so much @iamcardib I appreciate you supporting the movement and @yourrightscamp," Kaepernick tweeted.
(CNN) Defense Secretary James Mattis was the target of a failed rocket attack near a key Afghanistan airport Wednesday, the Taliban said, though the attack occurred after he had left the airport.
Hours after Mattis landed, the rockets were fired at Kabul's Hamid Karzai International Airport from an unknown location and landed in an open area, according to Najib Danish, spokesman for the Afghan Interior Ministry.
He did not reveal how many rockets were fired.
Mattis and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg had already left the airport at the time of the incident, Danish said.
No one was injured.
The Taliban has claimed responsibility and said Mattis' plane was the target of the attack, the Taliban's spokesman, Zabiullah Mujahid, tweeted.
Up to 40 rounds of munitions hit the airport, according to a US military official, 29 of which were rocket-propelled grenades.
The nature of the other munitions was not immediately known.
The official said the munitions were fired toward a guard tower and hit the south side of the airport.
An Afghan special forces unit was searching houses close to the airport on the suspicion that the rockets were fired from them, Danish added.
Mattis' unannounced visit Wednesday was his first trip to the country since US President Donald Trump announced a new Afghan strategy in late August.
At a press conference with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Stoltenberg, Mattis said he had only heard some press reports but said "an attack on an airport anywhere in the world is a criminal act by terrorist."
"If, in fact, this is what they have done, they will find the Afghan Security Forces continuing on the offensive against them in every district of the country right now," Mattis added.
Presidential meeting

Mattis met with Afghan President Ghani at the Presidential Palace, alongside Stoltenberg and Gen. John Nicholson, commander of US forces in Afghanistan.
Saying it was "refreshing" to be in the country alongside NATO's leader, he said a "lot was riding" on Trump's new strategy.
"A lot is riding on this of course as we look toward how do we put an end to this fighting and the threat of terrorism to the Afghan people, to the international community and how do we put this into a path of political reconciliation," he said.
At the time, Trump said he was shifting the policy to take the emphasis off troop numbers, and would rely on greater regional cooperation to stabilize the security situation in Afghanistan.
"We are here to set the military and security conditions for that but recognize ultimately the responsibility for the Afghan leadership under your direction," Mattis added.
Earlier Mattis met with key Afghan government officials, including Defense Minister Tariq Shah Bahrami and Interior Minister Wais Barmak, as well as Stoltenberg and Nicholson, at Resolute Support Headquarters.
Nicholson gave an assessment of the fighting season so far, saying it had gone as well as can be expected.
Stoltenberg also spoke at the meeting, reiterating NATO support for Afghan forces.
"We are ready to train, assist and advise.
We would like to help you break the stalemate that we have seen," he said.
During his visit, Mattis is also expected to meet with the and spend time with US troops.
Later, he'll hold a press conference with Ghani and the NATO chief.
US Secretary of Defense James Mattis touches down in Kabul, Afghanistan for a visit, Wednesday, 27 September.
Last week, Ghani used a substantial part of his speech at the United Nations General Assembly to praise Trump's recently announced strategy for Afghanistan and South Asia.
"With President Trump's recent announcement of his strategy to counter terror and stabilize South Asia, Afghanistan's enduring partnership with the United States and the international community has been renewed and redirected," Ghani told the audience at the UN headquarters in New York.
Afghan strategy

In his August prime-time address, Trump outlined his plan for the war in Afghanistan, vowing that the US would "fight to win" while no longer "nation-building."
The President declared he would no longer announce troop levels but would focus on allowing US forces to target the Taliban and other terrorist groups wherever they were in Afghanistan.
"America's enemies must never know our plans, or believe they can wait us out.
I will not say when we are going to attack, but attack we will," said Trump, before a crowd of US troops.
There are approximately 11,000 US troops in Afghanistan, according to revised figures given by the Pentagon in late August.
The number given was around 2,600 more than had been officially disclosed due to a change in its accounting procedures.
Before entering office, Trump had campaigned for a complete withdrawal of US troops from the country.
The 16-year war has claimed the lives of more than 2,200 US troops, as well as thousands of allied forces.
Tens of thousands of Afghan civilians and military have also died in the conflict.
Trump indicated in August that he'd changed his mind and said withdrawing from Afghanistan would dishonor those killed.
Crackdown on Pakistan's 'harboring of terrorists'

Trump's new Afghanistan plan also emphasized that it was a part of a broader South Asia strategy that relied on greater cooperation from neighboring India and Pakistan.
He had particularly harsh words for Pakistan, saying Washington could "no longer be silent about Pakistan's safe havens for terrorist organizations."
"The Pakistani people have suffered greatly from terrorism and extremism," Trump said.
"Pakistan has also sheltered those same organizations that try every single day to kill our people."
Afghan and US officials have long accused Pakistan of taking insufficient military action against Taliban leadership internally.
Speaking at the UNGA last week, Pakistan Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi rejected accusations the country hadn't done enough to combat terrorism.
"Having suffered and sacrificed so much due to our role in the global counter terrorism campaign it is especially galling for Pakistan to be blamed for the military or political stalemate in Afghanistan.
We are not prepared to be anyone's scapegoat," he said.
Abbassi added that Taliban "safe havens" were located not in Pakistan but in "large tracts of territory controlled by the Taliban in Afghanistan."
Trump's Afghan strategy also calls for more help from India, which has long maintained strained relations with Pakistan.
"India makes billions of dollars in trade from the United States, and we want them to help us more with Afghanistan," Trump said.
Mattis' visit to Kabul comes straight off the back of a visit to India.
After meeting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the two released a statement saying "both sides had reaffirmed their resolve to further develop their strong strategic partnership."
The statement said they'd discussed greater cooperation on regional and global scale in pursuing their shared goals of "peace, stability and combating terrorism."
Washington (CNN) As Congress turns its attention away from health care and back toward tax reform and other issues, a new CNN poll conducted by SSRS finds most in favor of major changes to the nation's tax laws, but wary of President Donald Trump's handling of immigration.
Tax reform and immigration have both been near the top of Trump's agenda, but the public sees them as lower priorities.
Just 12% polled said tax laws ought to be Congress's highest priority over the next few weeks, 11% choose immigration.
More, 36%, want Congress to focus on funding disaster relief efforts (the poll was completed September 17 through 20, before the effects of Hurricane Maria on Puerto Rico were clear) and 31% say dealing with health care should be the top priority.
Neither taxes nor immigration prompts much support for Trump, according to the poll.
Overall, just 36% approve of his handling of immigration -- down eight points from a high of 44% in March -- and 34% approve of his work on taxes.
A sizable one in five say they're not sure yet how Trump is doing on taxes, as details of the tax reform effort he plans to advocate for yet to be released.
Many Americans agree with Trump's contention that the tax laws deserve a major revamp.
All told, 68% say the federal income tax system needs either a complete overhaul (35%) or major changes (33%).
That cuts across party lines, including 77% of Republicans, 70% of independents and 62% of Democrats.
Asked about the impact of a reform effort led by Trump, though, about four in 10 say they expect taxes for the middle class to rise, while just 25% say middle class taxes will drop.
Likewise, more Americans think their own personal taxes would go up under this effort than drop (34% to 21%).
More see tax decreases on the horizon for big businesses (47% say so) and for the wealthy (42%).
These views are divided by party.
Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say their own taxes would drop under a Trump-led plan (40% among Republicans, 11% among Democrats) and that middle-class taxes would decline (52% among Republicans, 9% among Democrats).
But Democrats are more convinced that the wealthy would see a decline in their tax bills (61% vs. 19% of Republicans) and that big businesses would also get a break (57% vs. 36% among Republicans).
Turning to immigration, most (60%) lack confidence that Trump and Congress will be able to enact new laws on immigration and border security that will improve the way the country handles this issue.
That's similar to the sentiment toward then-president George W. Bush's efforts at immigration reform in mid-2006.
That lack of confidence could stem from disagreements on policy.
The poll finds most Americans oppose each of the major initiatives Trump has backed on immigration since taking office: 82% say they want the policy known as DACA to continue, 63% oppose building a wall along the entire border with Mexico, and 55% say they oppose changes in federal law to reduce the number of immigrants who enter the country legally.
In dealing with those already in the country illegally, a whopping 84% say developing a plan to allow some people living in the US illegally to stay is a more important priority than deporting all people who are living in the US illegally.
Considering how to deal with those attempting to move to the US, most favor reforming current laws to better reflect the country's needs than say stronger enforcement of current laws should be the top priority (56% to 40% for enforcement).
And in principle, many seem to support at least one of the changes Trump has backed to immigration laws: 51% say they think job skills and education should be a more important factor than family ties in considering whether to grant a non-citizen legal residence in the US But those who see reforming immigration laws as a priority are split on this question, with 46% favoring job skills and 43% family ties, and opposed to reduced legal immigration generally (65% oppose it, 30% favor it).
The CNN poll was conducted by SSRS by telephone September 17 to 20 among a random national sample of 1,053 adults.
The margin of sampling error for results among the full sample is plus or minus 3.7 percentage points; it is larger for subgroups.
Story highlights The USS Kearsarge Amphibious Ready Group has already been conducting rescue operations in the region

The US Air Force is also sending additional aircraft to Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands

Washington (CNN) The US military is planning to deploy the USNS Comfort hospital ship to assist with FEMA's response efforts in Puerto Rico a week after Hurricane Maria smashed the island as a Category 4 storm, several defense officials told CNN.
The Comfort is a seagoing medical treatment facility "capable of providing resuscitation and stabilization care; initial wound and basic surgery; and postoperative treatment," according to the US Navy.
Puerto Rican officials asked for additional medical assistance from the ship after initially indicating that they wanted to focus on getting power restored to damaged hospitals on shore, US officials told CNN.
CARIBBEAN SEA (April 10, 2015) Military Sealift Command (MSC) hospital ship USNS Comfort (T-AH 20) sits anchored off the coast of Belize for it's first mission stop during Continuing Promise 2015.
While the Comfort is on the way, according to FEMA administrator Brock Long, it may not deploy for another week -- within five to nine days as additional forces are activated to help man the ship along with its current crew of about 18 civilian mariners.
The crew is expected to grow to as many 60 and the medical crew could increase from the approximately 65 now with the ship to as many as 1,200, according to officials.
Read More
Story highlights Sen. Luther Strange conceded the Alabama primary runoff just after 9:30 p.m.
ET

Roy Moore has been a lightning rod for controversy for more than a decade

Montgomery, Alabama (CNN) Roy Moore, the bombastic evangelical Christian who was twice ousted as Alabama's chief justice, has beaten Sen. Luther Strange in a Republican primary.
Moore's win is sending shockwaves through the GOP establishment -- including at the White House, where President Donald Trump had poured his own political capital into helping Strange survive.
At his victory party, Moore said he'd spoken Tuesday night with Sens.
Mike Lee of Utah, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas.
He also offered a national audience a glimpse of his religious-themed rhetoric.
"We have to return the knowledge of God and the Constitution of the United States to the United States Congress," Moore said.
"I believe we can make America great, but we must make America good," he said.
"And we cannot make America good without acknowledging the sovereign source of that goodness ... which is almighty God."
Read More
It was a clear victory for the conservative grassroots over the GOP establishment as Strange had the backing of, among others, President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
But, there were a lot more winners -- and losers -- from the results.
Here's my look at the best and the worst from Tuesday night.
WINNERS

: Moore was already a quasi-celebrity in national conservative circles thanks to his 10 Commandments fight and refusal to sanction same-sex marriages.
(Each of those stances led to his removal as a state Supreme Court justice.)
But this win -- and his likely general election victory in two months -- will make him a major star in the conservative firmament.
Moore will be broadly aligned with the Ted Cruz wing of the Senate but his views -- on, say, Sharia Law -- are considerably more extreme than even Cruz.
And in today's Republican Party, those views -- and his unapologetic willingness to voice them -- will make him a major player on the ideological right of the party.
Steve Bannon: Bannon, the former chief strategist in the Trump White House, made Alabama a test case in his efforts to overthrow the Republican party establishment.
In the run-up to the vote on Tuesday, : Bannon, the former chief strategist in the Trump White House, made Alabama a test case in his efforts to overthrow the Republican party establishment.
In the run-up to the vote on Tuesday, he issued sweeping condemnations of McConnell and his ilk ("most corrupt and most incompetent group of individuals in this country") and issued a dire warning to them: "Your day of reckoning is coming.
Those words would be just bluster if Strange had won.
But Moore's convincing victory suggests that Bannon is channeling -- and leading -- a grassroots activist army on the right that should rightly scare the crap out of any Republican incumbent with any sense.
* Doug Jones: Most people have never heard of the Alabama Democratic nominee.
But Jones, a former US Attorney, will likely become the new cause celebre for Democrats trying to beat back the rising Trumpism within the Republican Party.
The math in Alabama -- particularly in what is expected to be a very low turnout special general election just 13 days before Christmas -- is very, very tough for any Democrat.
If Strange had won, Democrats would have walked away from this race.
But Moore's volatility -- and controversial past -- give Jones a puncher's chance here.
* Alabama polling: One of the big stories leading up to this race was that Alabama was a notoriously difficult state to poll, particularly in what was expected to be a very low-turnout affair.
But, by and large, the polls were right!
The : One of the big stories leading up to this race was that Alabama was a notoriously difficult state to poll, particularly in what was expected to be a very low-turnout affair.
But, by and large, the polls were right!
The Real Clear Politics average of Alabama polls gave Moore an 11-point edge.
He won by 9.2 points.
JUST WATCHED Roy Moore: We can support the President Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Roy Moore: We can support the President 01:02

* Bob Corker: I'm sure the : I'm sure the Tennessee Republican senator's retirement announcement wasn't meant to dovetail with Moore's victory.
But that they came on the same day is, in a way, fitting.
Corker is one of the most admired senators -- of either party in Washington -- but faced the prospect of a serious primary challenge from his right next year.
And, based on Moore's convincing win on Tuesday, it's uniquely possible Corker might have found himself on the wrong end of a primary.
Lots of success in politics is knowing when to get in -- and knowing when to get out.
And Corker looks like he got out at just the right time.
* Alabama political reporters: The special general election between Moore and Jones has at least the potential to be competitive.
And, because Moore is involved, it will draw national attention.
If Moore wins -- as is likely -- then oh man what a story he will be to cover.
( : The special general election between Moore and Jones has at least the potential to be competitive.
And, because Moore is involved, it will draw national attention.
If Moore wins -- as is likely -- then oh man what a story he will be to cover.
( Here's my list of best Alabama political reporters from 2015 .)
LOSERS

* Mitch McConnell: The Senate majority leader -- and his aligned super PAC -- went all out for Strange.
That was the right move for McConnell's internal politics since GOP incumbents have to know that the leader will do everything he can to protect them from primary challengers.
It was also the right move for McConnell's broader vision of Republican politics because Moore is going to say and do things that, at a minimum, distract from McConnell's preferred message.
But losing is still losing.
And now McConnell not only has to contend with Moore in the Senate but the possibility that the Bannon wing of the party will oust other GOP incumbents in places like Nevada, Arizona and Mississippi.
* Donald Trump: The : The President may have spent Tuesday night/Wednesday morning deleting tweets in support of Strange , but that won't change the fact that he was for the loser in this race.
Trump's endorsement of Strange was, uh, strange from the start.
He acknowledged at a rally for Strange last Friday that he really didn't know him and hadn't even talked to him before he began making calls to shore up support for the repeal and replace legislation on Obamacare.
You can see why Trump did it; he wanted to placate McConnell because he needs the majority leader on his side for the future legislative fights to come.
Still, for a candidate whose #brand is "winning," Trump didn't do that on Tuesday.
And you can bet he's pissed about it.
JUST WATCHED Steve Bannon celebrates Moore's win Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Steve Bannon celebrates Moore's win 00:51

* Roger Wicker/Dean Heller/Jeff Flake: All three GOP incumbents either already face serious primary challenges or are expected to in the very near future.
Moore's victory on Tuesday night will be looked at as a blueprint for the challengers in all three of these races.
And with Bannon -- and the deep-pocketed Mercer family -- keen on taking it to the establishment, this trio had better look out.
* Robert Bentley: The : The scandal-plagued former governor got one final kick in the teeth on Tuesday when Strange, who he appointed to fill the seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, lost.
Bentley's cloud hung heavy over Strange throughout the campaign; many Alabama observers believe that had the "Luv Guv" not appointed Strange before resigning that Big Luther would have won the special election in his own right.
* $$$: Strange had a massive spending edge in the race thanks to almost $10 million in ad spending by the McConnell-backed Senate Leadership Fund.
But the money didn't really matter against Moore, who had spent decades cultivating a base of committed supporters who weren't swayed by the barrage of negative attacks about him on the Alabama airwaves.
As Trump proved during the 2016 GOP presidential primary campaign, money matters less than passionate supporters.
And you can't buy those with all the money in the world.
* Nicknames: Strange has a good one: "Big Luther."
(He's 6-foot-9.)
Moore doesn't have a nickname.
It's my strong belief we need WAY more nicknames in politics.
Tuesday was a setback for my cause.
(CNN) The collapse Tuesday of Senate Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act caps a brutal stretch for Mitch McConnell.
The Senate majority leader is facing withering criticism from President Donald Trump -- who described him as "unpopular" -- and many conservative Republicans who blame him for failing to accomplish the party's top legislative goal despite years of promises and months of negotiations.
"We haven't given up on changing the American health care system, we are not going to be able to do that this week," a disappointed McConnell told reporters, as time ticked toward a deadline at the end of the month when the GOP will lose the ability to pass an Obamacare repeal bill on a party-line vote.
The difficult decision to pull a second major repeal bill came the same day the veteran Kentucky Republican faced two other thorny political challenges.
First, the McConnell-backed candidate in the runoff for an Alabama senate seat, Sen. Luther Strange, was defeated by a far-right conservative, Judge Roy Moore, who is highly critical of McConnell and his establishment bona fides.
"I'm now enemy No.
1," Moore warned McConnell in a recent fundraising message, a reflection of how difficult Moore could make things if he wins a seat in the McConnell-led chamber.
Conservative voices off Capitol Hill also gunned for McConnell.
At a rally for Moore this week, the politically powerful former Trump adviser Steve Bannon blasted McConnell and made clear he wants him out

"Mitch McConnell and this permanent political class is the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country," Bannon declared.
Asked if a loss for Strange would negatively impact McConnell's reputation on Capitol Hill, conservative Alabama GOP Rep. Bradley Byrne said: "The Senate is such a clubby place I can't begin to tell you how it will affect him in the Senate."
But, he added, "House Republicans are already unhappy with the Senate.
That's not a secret and I don't think this will make this any worse but it is indicative of broader unhappiness among the Republican electorate."
Corker announcement

The second political challenge for McConnell came when Sen. Bob Corker, the two-term Republican from Tennessee and chairman of the foreign relations committee, who has been a McConnell ally and steady presence in the GOP conference, announced he would retire rather than run again

McConnell had urged Corker to stay on, Senate sources told CNN, and his decision to leave opens the seat to possible Democratic takeover, albeit in a reliably Republican state.
Before the repeal bill was officially ditched, the leader of a group of conservative GOP House members cautioned McConnell "all options" would be "on the table" to challenge McConnell if he didn't deliver on the Republican agenda.
"We would hope that the majority leader would listen to his constituents as much as we listen to ours throughout the states we represent," said Rep. Mark Walker, R-North Carolina, who chairs the influential and conservative Republican Study Committee.
"We hope he can deliver on those promises but if not then we put all options on the table."
While Walker has no vote in Senate leadership elections, he can whip up political opposition and raise doubts about McConnell staying in power.
McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, are accustomed to rabble rousers on their right flanks.
Both had promised drama-free governing that would try to pass spending bills on time and operate the mechanisms of government smoothly.
But they also promised again and again to repeal Obamacare -- something anti-big government conservatives chaffed for -- perhaps without fully recognizing how difficult that might be.
Several Senate Republicans downplayed the notion McConnell's leadership post was endangered.
It would fall to them to vote him out and there was little evidence they were prepared to take that step now.
"This isn't Mitch's fault.
The fault that we got here is that we have too many people running around like a bunch of free-range chicken," said Sen. John Kennedy, R-Louisiana, about the convoluted health care negotiations that divided the moderate and conservative members of the Senate GOP conference.
"We have failed as a caucus.
It's not just leadership, it's membership," said Sen. David Purdue, R-Georgia, when asked if McConnell should stay on as GOP leader.
Almost all Republican senators said it was time to turn to tax reform, the next big policy goal for Trump and congressional Republicans that they hope will unify the GOP across the spectrum and provide a major legislative accomplishment for voters before the midterm elections.
"There was no talk of changing leadership or anything else," said Sen. John Hoeven, R-North Dakota.
"As far as our leadership structure, I don't hear anybody saying that's changing.
The focus is all on getting taxes really done by the end of the year and continuing to work on health care."
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, who co-authored and championed the bill defended McConnell.
"The leadership team has done everything we've asked them," Graham said.
One GOP senator who has clashed with McConnell in the past was asked if, considering the health care debacle, McConnell is still an effective leader.
"He certainly led us to the confirmation of (Supreme Court Justice Neil) Gorsuch," replied Sen. Ron Johnson, R-Wisconsin, in a sarcastic reference to what McConnell critics see as the only major accomplishment for Republicans since they've had unified control of Congress and the White House.
"Listen, these are very difficult issues.
It's not easy herding cats.
I honestly don't envy leadership their tasks," Johnson added.
Story highlights Majority Leader McConnell decided not to hold a vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill

They currently lack the 50 votes needed to pass the legislation

"It's obvious -- we don't have the votes right now" said Sen. Tim Scott

It's another blow to President Trump's legislative agenda

Washington (CNN) The Senate will not vote on the Graham-Cassidy bill to repeal Obamacare, Republican leaders announced Tuesday, dealing a devastating blow to President Donald Trump and GOP lawmakers who tried to make a last-ditch attempt to deliver on the party's years-long campaign promise.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced the decision at a lunch with fellow Republicans on Capitol Hill, conceding what had become clear Monday night: They didn't have the votes.
"We haven't given up on changing the American health care system.
We are not going to be able to do that this week," McConnell told reporters Tuesday.
"But it still lies ahead of us, and we haven't given up on that."
JUST WATCHED Graham: Coming back to health bill after taxes Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Graham: Coming back to health bill after taxes 01:18

Even as McConnell and his colleagues vowed that their goal of overhauling the country's health care system was far from over, Tuesday marked a clear end to the latest campaign to try to jam through a partisan bill to gut the Affordable Care Act.
The budget vehicle Republicans were using to move the bill forward without any Democratic support was set to expire at the end of this week.
The sponsors of Graham-Cassidy said they were disappointed but would try again -- next time through a more transparent process.
The new plan, they said, is to take another crack at health care through the 2019 budget reconciliation process (which would again only require 50 votes for passage) and hold committee hearings, markups and reach out to Democrats.
(CNN) The Department of Homeland Security does not plan to extend an October 5 deadline for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals recipients to renew their status, according to a Justice Department attorney who spoke at a hearing in federal court Tuesday.
Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Justice Department Brett Shumate told a federal judge that the government did not plan to extend the deadline during a hearing in an ongoing lawsuit challenging the government's decision to end the program.
US District Judge Nicholas Garaufis suggested at a previous hearing that DHS extend the deadline while a legislative or executive solution was still being worked out.
The lawsuit is one of several challenging the legality of the government's decision to end the DACA program across the country.
Before the judge started listening to arguments from either side in the case, he has already expressed repeated concern about the upcoming October 5 deadline.
While DHS stopped accepting new DACA applications when President Donald Trump announced the end of the program on September 5 (with a six-month window for Congress to act), existing DACA recipients with permits that expire on or before March 5, 2018 are still eligible to apply for renewal, as long as they submit those applications by October 5.
The administration initially announced this plan to continue accepting applications for permit renewal in order to give Congress time to act before any currently protected individuals lose their ability to work, study and live without fear in the US.
Read More
(CNN) Special counsel investigators could start interviewing current and former White House staff as soon as later this week regarding the Russian probe, two sources familiar with the matter tell CNN.
One source cautioned it is still being worked out with Robert Mueller's office and said it might be delayed until next week.
As CNN previously reported, among the people Mueller has expressed interest in speaking with are former and current White House staffers whom investigators consider witnesses, including former chief of staff Reince Priebus, former press secretary Sean Spicer, communications director Hope Hicks, White House counsel Don McGahn, communications adviser Josh Raffel and associate counsel James Burnham.
Mueller's team also approached the White House about interviewing staffers who were aboard Air Force One for the creation of the initial response to news of Donald Trump Jr.'s Trump Tower meeting with a Russian lawyer, sources previously told CNN

Mueller's investigators are looking for documents and emails relating to the dismissals of national security adviser Michael Flynn and FBI Director James Comey, according to the sources.
In addition, one source confirms that Mueller's team wants information connected to the Oval Office meeting Trump had with Russian officials in which he bragged about firing Comey, saying it eased pressure on his White House.
Read More
Story highlights While Trump tweets obsessively about NFL anthem protests, he tells friends he thinks he's on the right track, writes Gloria Borger

In his real estate days, Trump routinely upended meetings to the consternation of many, she writes

(CNN) While much of the American public never ceases to be amazed at the President's tweets, antics or declarations from the stump, those who have known him for years take it in stride.
"This is who he is," says a longtime ally, referring to the NFL take-a-knee conflict.
"He triples down, and he thinks this all is great."
He's got a disaster in Puerto Rico (not to mention two others in Texas and Florida), a failed health care bill, a pending tax reform fight, a potential deal on Dreamers that could anger his base -- oh, and by the way, a confrontation with North Korea that reaches new rhetorical excesses daily.
But he's obsessively tweeting about the NFL -- or Steph Curry refusing to pay homage at the White House (President to Warriors: Don't come).
Over and over again.
More than 20 times.
So what's he thinking?
First, says a friend, "he thinks all of this is great for him.
He says that his base and most of America agree with him."
Indeed, the President told this friend, "I say what they all want to say."
The feeling, he adds, is that the President believes he is "doing what he was sent to Washington to do, to chip away at all of these establishment notions in places where people are afraid to go."
But not brave Donald Trump.
He's so brave that he's willing to cast aside the First Amendment so those "sons of bitches," as the President calls them, don't take a knee as a form of protest when the anthem is played.
Instead, he'd like them fired.
Maybe it's not such a brave move, especially considering that what he cares about is deeply political: playing to his base of support with his version of patriotism.
He knew it would play well when he campaigned in Alabama the other night.
That way, if his base is jittery over his deals with the Democrats, he can throw them a bone.
Or a flag.
Read More
(CNN) At least a half-dozen top Trump administration officials used private email accounts to communicate about White House business, according to the New York Times .
That group includes family members / senior advisers Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner as well as departed top aides including Reince Priebus and Steve Bannon.
Now, try to remember all the way back to, well, last year when then candidate Trump framed his entire campaign around the idea that Hillary Clinton's use of a private email and private server as secretary of state amounted to criminal conduct.
"She would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I would say," Trump told a Michigan audience just more than a week before the 2016 election.
"So we'd have a criminal trial of a sitting president."
The "Lock Her Up" chant -- which an audience in Alabama chanted on Friday night, more than 300 days after the 2016 election -- became the defining rallying cry for Trump voters.
Trump might be uncouth.
He might be make offensive comments about women.
But, Clinton was a criminal, Trump supporters claimed!
(Neither Clinton nor anyone on her staff were ever charged with a crime.)
Before we go any further, it's important to note that what Clinton did is not the exact same thing that Jared, Ivanka and others are reportedly doing.
Clinton exclusively used her private email address for government business.
She had a private email server at her home in Chappaqua, New York.
She shared classified materials via that email address although, she has long contended, the materials were not classified at the time.
According to the Times, all of the Trump administration officials used their private addresses only occasionally and all had official accounts set up and operating.
Still.
Think of it this way: You are running a race against someone else through the woods.
That person falls in a hole.
You win.
The next time you run through those same woods, you would think you would make sure to be on the lookout for the hole, right?
Like, you would be HYPER sensitive to that pitfall -- and any other ones like it, right?
(Yes, I watched the second "Hunger Games" movie last night.)
What these Trump officials have done is sprint into the same damn hole that swallowed Clinton's campaign whole.
And, in so doing, they've raised all of the same questions that Clinton's email use did.
Do they think the rules don't apply to them?
Do they think they can just do whatever they want because of their position and power?
What are they trying to hide in these private accounts?
And, it also raises a question that Clinton never had to contend with: Did the Trump campaign actually believe all that stuff they said about the dangers posed by Clinton's email conduct?
If so, why did they go anywhere near doing the same thing?
The official White House line was surprisingly scoldy about the new email revelations.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work," said White House press secretary Sarah Sanders.
"They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts."
This story won't be going away any time soon.
Not only does it look like rank hypocrisy, it also potentially ties into special counsel Bob Mueller's investigation into Russia influence in the 2016 election.
What do these emails on private accounts say?
Will they be released publicly?
If not, why not?
"The new e-mail release is a disaster for Hillary Clinton," Trump proclaimed in January 2016.
"At a minimum, how can someone with such bad judgment be our next president?"
Don't be surprised if this latest story prompts some of those same questions to be asked of the men and women in Trump's inner circle.
(CNN) Multiple current and former White House officials have used private email for official administration correspondence, CNN has learned.
At least four top current and former White House officials occasionally used private email in their official capacity as White House officials, sources told CNN.
The New York Times reported Monday night that that "at least six" officials used private email to conduct White House business after Politico first reported that Jared Kushner , the President's son-in-law and senior adviser, periodically used a private email account.
The use of private email was a defining issue of the 2016 presidential election, when then-candidate Trump frequently slammed his opponent Hillary Clinton's use of a private server during her time as secretary of state.
Several of the emails Clinton sent or received were later determined to be classified by various government agencies , though Clinton had said that none of the emails were marked classified at the time she sent them.
There was no indication that the White House officials who used personal email maintained their accounts on a private server or that they shared classified information.
Former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, former chief strategist Steve Bannon and others occasionally used personal email during their time at the White House, two sources with knowledge of the emails told CNN.
Kushner's lawyer Abbe Lowell also confirmed to CNN on Sunday that Kushner occasionally used a private email account for correspondence with fellow administration officials.
"Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," Lowell said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
Lowell said that the emails on Kushner's private account were "usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
White House officials are advised to use their official White House email addresses for official business and though it is not illegal to use personal email, federal law requires all White House records -- including emails -- be preserved.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.
"They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts."
While the White House has not issued any new warnings or guidance, one source said lawyers in the Office of the White House Counsel periodically remind White House staff to forward any personal emails to their official account to ensure they are recorded in accordance with the Presidential Records Act.
Kushner did just that, Lowell said, noting that "all non-personal emails were forwarded to his official address, and all have been preserved, in any event."
Ivanka Trump, an assistant to the President, also used her private email to correspond with administration officials about working on policy issues before she was officially named to a White House position in March.
According to The New York Times, Stephen Miller, a top adviser and presidential speechwriter, and National Economic Council director Gary Cohn also used private email accounts.
CNN has not independently verified this reporting.
Documents obtained by watchdog group American Oversight via a Freedom of Information Act request found two emails sent by Ivanka Trump's private email address to Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon on the topic of women's entrepreneurship.
The emails were sent February 28, nearly a month before Trump formally stepped into her White House role as assistant to the President.
However, she referred to White House staffer Julie Radford as "my chief of staff" in one of the emails.
Washington (CNN) White House chief of staff John Kelly was not pleased with the fight that erupted over the weekend between President Donald Trump and National Football League players who protest by kneeling during the national anthem, two administration officials told CNN.
Trump has been on a three-day crusade since he first commented on the protests at a rally in Alabama Friday , when he said that coaches should get the "son of a bitch" off the field if the player continued to kneel.
His chief of staff, a lifelong Marine who was brought in to introduce order into the West Wing, is attuned to race issues and voiced his concern about the matter, one official said.
In a brief interview Monday evening, Kelly told CNN he is "appalled" by what he sees as a lack of respect for the flag and national anthem.
"I believe every American, when the national anthem is played, should cover their hearts and think about all the men and women who have been maimed and killed," Kelly said.
"Every American should stand up and think for three lousy minutes."
His son, Robert Michael Kelly, was killed in combat in Afghanistan in 2010.
Kelly declined to talk about the President's decision to wade into the issue.
White House officials say they believe this will blow over, but did not know how long the President would keep it alive.
Two distinct issues are driving the national debate: Believing players should stand during National Anthem and the question of whether it's wise for a president to make issue of it.
After the story appeared on CNN, the President criticized the network, calling it "fake news."
"@CNN is #FakeNews.
Just reported COS (John Kelly) was opposed to my stance on NFL players disrespecting FLAG, ANTHEM, COUNTRY.
Total lie!"
the President wrote

"General John Kelly totally agrees w/ my stance on NFL players and the fact that they should not be disrespecting our FLAG or GREAT COUNTRY!"
he said in a second tweet

Kelly attended the Alabama rally and Trump brought him on stage for praise just minutes before he made his NFL comments.
Kelly was unaware Trump was going to wade into a culture war just moments later, an official said.
The comments were not included in his prepared remarks.
Though they drew immediate criticism, Trump has not relented.
The next day he called for NFL fans to boycott games unless the league fired or suspended players who refuse to stand for the national anthem, and has tweeted more than a dozen times about the matter.
Two sources close to Trump -- one inside the White House and one outside -- said they have never heard the President complain this vociferously about the NFL protests before.
But Trump has previously singled out former San Francisco 49er quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who drew national attention last year for protesting police brutality, especially aimed at African-Americans, by refusing to stand during "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior to kickoff.
"It was reported that NFL owners don't want to pick him up because they don't want to get a nasty tweet from Donald Trump," he said during a campaign-like rally in Louisville, Kentucky.
"Do you believe that?
I just saw that.
I just saw that."
Yet Trump has typically only spoken in glowing terms of his relationships with people in the league, such as New England Patriots Chairman and CEO Robert Kraft and quarterback Tom Brady.
Both Kraft and Brady have distanced themselves from Trump's remarks.
"I certainly disagree with what he said," Brady said during an interview on sports radio Monday.
"I thought it was just divisive."
"I am deeply disappointed by the tone of the comments made by the President on Friday," Kraft said.
"I am proud to be associated with so many players who make such tremendous contributions in positively impacting our communities."
Though Kelly has sought to instill discipline in a chaotic White House, it's becoming clear there are two things he can't control: what the President says off-the-cuff and what he tweets.
The question now is whether Kelly can now persuade Trump to move on from his battle with the NFL, but one official said he shouldn't count on it.
JUST WATCHED White House holds briefing amid NFL backlash (full) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH White House holds briefing amid NFL backlash (full) 27:46

Kelly was also frustrated with the President after he said there was "blame on both sides" of the deadly clashes in Charlottesville.
He was part of a group of senior advisers who had convinced the President days earlier to more forcefully declare that neo-Nazis and KKK members were "repugnant" after he had condemned them in muted terms at first.
Trump, who often veers off-script when he is surrounded by supporters at his rallies, later said the words "were perfect."
White House press secretary Sarah Sanders defended the President's comments from the briefing room podium Monday, saying that they were not intended to be divisive.
"This isn't about the President being against anyone," Sanders said.
"This is about the President and millions of American being for something" -- like "honoring our flag."
"We certainly respect the rights that people have," Sanders said.
"This is about the President being for respect in our country, through symbols like the American flag, like the national anthem."
But his remarks struck many as stoking racial resentments because the players he criticized were black and their protests were meant to highlight racial injustice.
Trump, however, told reporters Sunday his objections had nothing to do with race.
Story highlights Trump is currently embroiled in a five-day controversy with the NFL

"Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands," Trump said

(CNN) President Donald Trump said Tuesday that he has "not at all" been "preoccupied" by the NFL and the controversy surrounding the National Anthem.
"I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL," Trump told reporters in the Rose Garden.
"I was ashamed of what was taking place."
Trump is currently embroiled in a five-day controversy with the NFL since he first commented on players protesting the National Anthem at a rally in Alabama on Friday.
Between Friday and midday Tuesday, Trump tweeted 24 times about the NFL, but only four times about Puerto Rico , which has been plunged into a humanitarian crisis in the wake of Hurricane Maria.
"Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands," Trump said defending his time spent on the subject.
"All I do is work."
Trump specifically defended himself against claims he was distracted from responding to the devastation in Puerto Rico, calling himself "totally focused".
Read More
(CNN) President Donald Trump suggested to House Republicans at a bipartisan meeting on tax reform that if they fail to act on health care, he would work with Democrats instead, issuing a loaded warning on a topic that's seen little to no cooperation between the two parties.
Trump made his threat as members of the House Ways and Means Committee met Tuesday with the President at the White House to discuss an entirely different topic: tax reform.
According to members who attended the sit-down, Trump stressed that he wanted a bipartisan effort on tax reform and expressed frustration with his own party for failing to pass a health care bill.
Just hours later, Senate Republicans announced they would not hold a vote on the latest iteration of their health care bill, marking yet another failed attempt to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act.
Trump told the group at the White House he was "disappointed" in Republican senators who came out against the recent Graham-Cassidy bill and doomed its prospects, according to Democratic Rep. Linda Sanchez, who was at the White House meeting.
Sanchez said Trump "chided" the Republican members in attendance, saying he could end up working with Democrats on health care legislation.
"We'll see if that happens," Sanchez said, adding that it wasn't a long discussion.
Rep. Richard Neal, the top Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, described the President's tone as "less than strident" but said "he made that clear that if he didn't get what he wanted, he was going to work with Democrats on a plan."
New York Republican Rep. Tom Reed who attended the White House meeting Tuesday told CNN he didn't classify the comment from the President as a "threat," but said the President "wants to govern for the American people and if there are folks on our side who just cannot get to that point than obviously you have no alternative but then to work with folks on the other side who will be good faith negotiators."
"There was definitely a clear signal that he's willing to work with legislators who want to govern and I support that wholeheartedly," said Reed, the co-chairman of the group known as the "problem solvers caucus."
Goals for tax reform revealed

The bipartisan meeting came one day before Republicans are set to unveil a framework of their tax reform plan.
Trump reiterated that the plan would be "middle class tax cut" and said there would be no tax cuts on the wealthy, according to Republican Rep. Jim Renacci of Ohio.
Trump was "pretty adamant" about wanting to get tax reform done, Renacci said, adding that the President was also passionate about a child care tax credit proposal being pushed by his daughter, Ivanka Trump.
"He wants to make sure that the credits are to a point where single working mothers and fathers can be able to afford childcare while they're working," Renacci said.
Neal, who took notes during the meeting, showed reporters his notepad with a quote that he wrote down, saying it was from Trump: "The rich will not benefit."
It's a promise that Democrats are planning to keep in the spotlight as the tax reform debate continues.
While Trump has repeatedly said his tax plan wouldn't benefit the wealthy, Neal said that Trump was prepared to move forward with repealing the estate tax -- which affects estates worth more than $5.49 million -- and indicated that lowering the top individual income tax rate was negotiable.
Two Republicans familiar with the plan expect the top income rate will drop to 35% from 39.6%, and the top corporate rate will drop to 20% from 35%.
But Republicans working on the plan stress that the rates are still fluid and could change before the release of the framework Wednesday.
Democrats argue that a drop in the individual top rate would be a tax cut for the wealthy.
"We want the top rate to stay at 39.6%," Neal said.
"It sends the signal that they're entirely true to the statement that was made on the campaign trail, that they intend not to offer any tax relief to the people at the top."
But even if the rate does decrease, it's not clear yet whether the richest Americans would pay less in federal income taxes overall because other changes could be made in the tax code that could offset the benefits they receive from a lower rate.
Trump is expected to address the plan Wednesday in an Indiana speech, while House Republicans will gather for a retreat to discuss some of the details.
(CNN) President Donald Trump on Tuesday intensified his personal involvement in the growing crisis in Puerto Rico amid criticism that his response to the devastation there was lackluster.
There was an increased sense of urgency at the White House in confronting the situation, including Trump's announcement -- a surprise to some aides -- that he would travel there in a week to survey damage left over from the storm.
"Puerto Rico is very important to me, and Puerto Rico -- the people are fantastic people," Trump said before meeting with lawmakers in the Roosevelt Room on Tuesday.
"I grew up in New York, so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto Ricans.
And these are great people, and we have to help them.
The island is devastated."
After critics, Republican and Democratic alike, accused Trump of ignoring the situation in public -- choosing instead to focus his attention on stirring controversy over NFL players' National Anthem protests -- the West Wing on Tuesday was the site of a flurry of activity designed to show Trump taking charge of the matter.
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
"The crisis for these Americans needs more attention -- and more urgency from the executive branch.
The potable water problems are substantial," Sen. Ben Sasse, a Nebraska Republican, tweeted Monday night.
The crisis for these Americans needs more attention--and more urgency from the executive branch.
The potable water problems are substantial.
https://t.co/gNb3XY6HJw  Ben Sasse (@BenSasse) September 26, 2017

He was echoing a sentiment voiced by Sen. Marco Rubio, a fellow Republican, who wrote that more crews are needed to restore power on the island.
"Returning from #PuertoRico now.
Tremendous damage.
Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP," Rubio tweeted on Monday.
Joined by his homeland security adviser and acting secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, Trump on Tuesday spoke by video conference with Puerto Rico's governor.
Photos released by the White House showed Trump, his arms crossed, listening alongside grim-faced aides as Puerto Rico's governor provided them with an update.
Briefed @POTUS @realDonaldTrump in #SituationRoom and thanked him for his leadership, quick response & commitment to our people  pic.twitter.com/hIFKYSMCDY  Ricardo Rossello (@ricardorossello) September 26, 2017

In the afternoon, the White House made a late addition to the President's schedule, publicizing his plans to meet with his top advisers in the Situation Room to discuss hurricane relief efforts.
Earlier in the day, Trump approved a change in the island's disaster declaration that increases federal funding for debris removal.
Chafing at criticism

JUST WATCHED Trump: I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump: I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL 00:58

White House officials say Trump has chafed at criticism that his administration has been slow in responding to the crisis in Puerto Rico, particularly compared to his quick trips to Texas and Florida after storms devastated those states.
After his top homeland security adviser Tom Bossert returned from the island, Trump demanded that aides work to schedule a trip there, despite the logistical challenges that persist.
One source said the President was told upon Bossert's return that Tuesday was the earliest he could visit the island.
The President's decision to visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday came suddenly for some at the White House, who as of Monday afternoon were not planning for Trump to travel there that quickly, a White House official said.
The White House on Monday night even announced plans for Trump to welcome the Thai prime minister to the White House next Tuesday -- a meeting now likely to be rescheduled.
Staffers on Monday had instead been planning for the President to head to the US Virgin Islands, with a Puerto Rico trip to come later.
Instead, Trump will visit both Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands during his trip next week.
White House officials who advance the President's trips were notified only Tuesday morning of the change of plans.
The decision to speed up plans for a presidential visit to Puerto Rico came as the media spotlight turned to the unraveling situation on the US territory, where reports of hundreds of thousands of people without sufficient water or access to basic services have emerged.
It also came as critics accused the President of focusing more of his attention -- at least on social media -- on the controversy he created by launching a days-long tirade against NFL players who have taken a knee during the National Anthem to protest racial injustice and police brutality.
Trump has been insistent about visiting Puerto Rico as quickly as possible, two sources said.
And Trump picked next Tuesday after his advisers said it was the earliest date a visit could be possible, one source said.
Speaking outside the White House on Tuesday, FEMA administrator Brock Long said that all access to the island should be limited to life-saving activity.
"If you're going to Puerto Rico right now, it should only be for a life-sustaining, life-supporting mission.
Everybody who is trying to get in that is not supporting that is getting in the way," he said.
It wasn't clear whether the President's sense of urgency in making a visit was prompted by the criticism he has faced or the intensifying glare of media scrutiny over the federal response.
There has been a growing sense in the West Wing of the need to scale up the White House's efforts, even as the administration insists the federal response to the situation has been above par.
Trump touts 'great job'

JUST WATCHED Trump says administration preparing for Irma Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump says administration preparing for Irma 02:33

Trump on Tuesday sharply rebuffed concerns about the federal response to the disaster, bragging that Puerto Rico's elected officials were grateful for the actions his administration has taken to respond so far.
"The governor of Puerto Rico was so thankful for the great job that we're doing," Trump said in the Rose Garden during a news conference with the prime minister of Spain.
"It's the most difficult job because it's on an island in the middle of the ocean.
It's out in the ocean.
You can't just drive your trucks there from other states."
The situation in Puerto Rico is the third major disaster in the last month Trump and his administration have had to confront, following major hurricanes that led to massive flooding, damage and power outages primarily in Texas and Florida.
The US Virgin Islands, which Trump will also visit on Tuesday, were hit by both Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
The federal government has deployed thousands of relief workers to Puerto Rico since the storm, according to federal authorities.
On Tuesday, the government announced the US military would deploy the Navy hospital ship Comfort to the island, though it won't arrive there for days.
The vessel is minimally manned in Norfolk, Virginia, by a crew of about 18 civilian mariners, though additional forces will now be activated to man the ship.
It could provide as many as 1,200 hospital beds.
On CNN Tuesday, the acting-Homeland Security secretary Elaine Duke said her agency was sufficiently funded to contend with the dire needs on Puerto Rico.
"We are absolutely prepared financially," Duke said.
"We are working hand-in-hand with Congress and the White House to ensure that we have the funds to perform these essential missions for all three of the hurricanes."
As of Monday morning, FEMA had around $5 billion in disaster relief reserves that was allocated after Hurricane Harvey barreled through Texas last month.
An additional $6.7 billion will be available on October 1, when funding for the next fiscal year kicks in.
Congressional and White House sources said they expected the administration to request additional emergency funding in early- to mid-October.
New York (CNN) President Donald Trump on Tuesday evening huddled at an upscale restaurant here with some of his wealthiest donors and New York City friends, pulling in about $5 million for his campaign and the GOP.
The President arrived at the fundraiser Tuesday night in an especially jovial mood, attendees at the closed-door fundraiser said, delivering a freewheeling address that touched on everything from the controversy he stirred about NFL protests to tax reform, health care and his dealings with world leaders, in particular Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.
Unmentioned was the President's use of Republican National Committee funds to pay for his personal attorneys' fees stemming from the federal investigation into the Trump campaign's potential role in the Russian meddling during the 2016 election.
The RNC confirmed last week it spent more than $230,000 on the President's legal bills in August.
Republican donors attending the dinner at the ritzy French restaurant Le Cirque spent at least $35,000 per couple.
A $100,000 donation got a couple of donors "VIP access," while anything over $250,000 earned the donors a seat at a table with the President ahead of his remarks, an RNC official said.
Attendees at the high-dollar fundraiser, including New York billionaire John Catsimatidis and former NBC CEO Bob Wright, said Trump appeared to feel at home among the crowd, which included many of his former New York City real estate pals.
As he delved into his conversations with world leaders, Trump explained that several of his counterparts have tried to dissuade him from his claims that the US is being taken advantage of by other countries, Catsimatidis said.
He spoke in particular about an interaction with the Canadian prime minister, saying that Trudeau once argued that the US had an $11 billion trade surplus with Canada -- rather than the deficit Trump has long claimed, a source in the room told CNN.
Trump asked one of his staffers to leave the room and check the numbers.
The staffer returned to say that while Trudeau was correct, the numbers didn't account for the ways in which Canada has benefited from provisions in NAFTA Trump deems unfair, like on lumber.
"With math like that, we'd all be broke," Trump quipped to the crowd of wealthy businessmen, the source said.
Trump has vowed to renegotiate or end NAFTA, the free trade agreement between the US and Canada, and has struck a combative tone in the process.
Catsimatidis said Trump told attendees he was pushing ahead on tax reform and did not dwell on the health care defeat.
Wright, the former NBC executive, said Trump was equally in a good mood during the roundtable portion of the night.
Wright said Trump focused in particular on the upcoming unveiling of the GOP's tax reform plan, saying he was excited about the plan.
Trump did express in the roundtable portion how he was disappointed over Republicans' failure on tax reform and noted how tough it is to get consensus in Washington.
Trump also spoke about the NFL during his speech, largely reiterating his position on the issue of the National Anthem protests and the importance of honoring the flag.
He did not speak about the owners who condemned him or launch any new attacks, three attendees said.
Notable attendees included Trump's children Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump and several of his New York real estate pals, including Howard Lorber.
The high-dollar fundraiser came a week after the RNC confirmed it is spending money from its legal fund to pay for Trump's legal bills -- as well as Trump Jr.'s.
The RNC has also spent nearly $200,000 to support the legal fees of Trump Jr., who became a focus of the investigation after he admitted to meeting with a Russian attorney last summer he believed would provide him with incriminating information about Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton from the Russian government.
The Trump campaign is also paying some of Trump Jr.'s legal bills and spent nearly $700,000 in legal consulting fees -- or about 15.5% of its total expenses between April 1 and June 30, according to the latest Federal Election Commission report.
The RNC payments to Trump attorneys were drawn from the party's legal expenses account, which allows the party to pay for legal bills stemming from its campaign activities.
While donors must elect to donate to the legal fund, wealthy donors who pay to attend high-dollar fundraisers like Tuesday night's typically spread their money into several RNC accounts -- including its legal fund -- to stay in line with contribution limits.
A June fundraiser hosted by "Trump Victory," the RNC-Trump campaign joint fundraising apparatus, funneled as much as 30% of its top-dollar donations to its legal proceedings account.
An RNC spokeswoman declined to provide the breakdown of how funds raised from Tuesday night's dinner would be allocated.
Story highlights North Korea's top diplomat accused Trump of declaring war on Monday

Officials: US bombers flew close to North Korean mainland on Saturday

Washington (CNN) US President Donald Trump issued a familiar warning to North Korea on Tuesday, saying the US is prepared to use "devastating" military action if necessary -- as two defense officials tell CNN that the rogue nation has moved a small number of fighter jets, external fuel tanks and air-to-air missiles to a base on its eastern coast to boost military readiness.
The officials would not go beyond saying a small number of assets had been moved by the regime to a known airfield in the eastern part of the country.
The move was seen in US satellite imagery and is viewed by the US as a North Korean effort to boost its military readiness in the eastern sector.
It would give the aircraft an ability to fly eastward further than its estimated 900-mile range.
Imagery so far has observed Mig-29 aircraft at the site.
Some missiles and fuel tanks are on the planes, but for now, no single jet is carrying both the external fuel tanks and the missiles.
On Monday, the North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho claimed US President Donald Trump had "declared a war" on his country, and threatened to shoot down US aircraft flying off its coastline even if they were in international airspace.
Read More
President Trump landed in Florida Thursday afternoon to survey damage from Hurricane Irma, but not before making a statement on immigration.
"We are not talking about amnesty.
We're talking about - we're talking about taking care of people," Trump said.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 14, 2017)

While a majority of millennials disapprove of President Donald Trump's job, only 43 percent have a favorable view of the Democratic party, according to the first NBC News/GenForward Survey poll.
Furthermore, only a slight majority, 53 percent, said the Democratic party cares about people like them.
As for the party across the aisle, just 26 percent of millennials had a favorable view of the GOP.
And only 30 percent said it cares about people like them.
The NBC News/GenForward at the University of Chicago Survey was conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 16, 2017, among a nationally representative sample of 1,816 adults ages 18-34, recruited and administered by NORC at the University of Chicago.
The overall margin of sampling error is +/- 3.8 percentage points.
GOP Still Split on Graham-Cassidy Health Care Bill
The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chuck Rosenberg, told staff at DEA headquarters Tuesday that he'll be stepping down next week.
As NBC News reports, Rosenberg thanked his staff and DEA agents in an email.
"The neighborhoods in which we live are better for your commitment to the rule of law, dedication to the cause of justice, and perseverance in the face of adversity," it read.
A close friend of former FBI Director James Comey, Rosenberg was considered unlikely to remain in the Trump administration after Comey's firing.
The New York Times reported that Rosenberg said he had become convinced that President Trump had little respect for the law.
Trump: NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During Anthem
A U.S. Coast Guard boat escorts the Royal Caribbean's Majesty of the Seas cruise ship transporting families evacuated from Caribbean islands devastated by Hurricane Irma, in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Sept. 14, 2017.
As Puerto Rico struggles amid mass power outages and food and water shortages, some politicians and experts say that one 97-year-old maritime law will make recovering from the disaster much more difficult.
The Jones Act, passed after World War I to protect the U.S. ship-building industry, requires that domestic shipping must be conducted by U.S.-owned, U.S.-made ships staffed by American crews.
This has meant that Puerto Rico, an island that relies on imports from the U.S., pays more than twice as much as neighboring islands for American goods, according to a report by former International Monetary Fund economists.
Nydia Velzquez, a Puerto Rican-born congresswoman who represents parts of New York City, is leading the call for a one-year suspension of the act while the island rebuilds from hurricane damage.
"The island is now facing an unprecedented uphill battle to rebuild its homes, businesses and communities," said Velzquez in a letter written to the Department of Homeland Security on Monday and signed by seven other members of Congress.
"Temporarily loosening these requirements  for the express purpose of disaster recovery  will allow Puerto Rico to have more access to the oil needed for its power plants, food, medicines, clothing, and building supplies."
Construction Begins on Border Wall Prototypes

South of San Diego, builders have started construction on eight prototypes of the US-Mexico border wall promised by President Donald Trump, and area officials are preparing for possible crowds of protesters.
(Published 2 hours ago)

The DHS suspended the Jones Act on Sept. 8 because of disruptions of the oil supply system after Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, but the waiver expired on Sept. 22.
Hurricane Maria hit on Sept. 20, knocking out all power to the island and nearly all cell phone towers.
Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello told NBC News Tuesday the territory risked collapsing "into a humanitarian crisis."
On Wednesday, he told CNN that he expected the federal government to waive the Jones Act restrictions.
The Trump administration said Wednesday it has not yet made a decision.
But a spokesman for the DHS said Tuesday that officials thought that waiving the Jones Act would be unnecessary.
An assessment by the DHS showed there was "sufficient capacity" of U.S.-flagged vessels to move commodities to Puerto Rico, spokesman Gregory Moore, said in a statement to Reuters and NBC News.
"The limitation is going to be port capacity to offload and transit, not vessel availability," Moore said.
"Most of the humanitarian shipments will be through barges, which make up a significant portion (along with tugs) of the US-flagged cargo fleet.
After Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, the rationale for a Jones Act waiver was to facilitate movement of petroleum to numerous places along the east coast, and making up for the loss of very high capacity pipelines.
The situation in Puerto Rico is much different."
On Wednesday, DHS said it had not received a formal waiver request regarding shipping to Puerto Rico.
The request by some members of Congress for a one-year waiver to get fuel and other supplies to the island is "under consideration," NBC News reported.
Democratic Rep. Luis V. Gutirrez from Illinois on Tuesday criticized leaving the Jones Act in place, amid Puerto Rico's financial crisis.
The territory has been in a severe recession since 2006 and declared a form of bankruptcy earlier this year.
Gutirrez, who was among those who signed Velzquezs letter to DHS, said the U.S. government should suspend the Jones Act at least for a decade if not repeal it permanently.
"Since it was imposed on Puerto Rico, the Jones Act has cost Puerto Rican consumers more than all the money owed to Wall Street, yet the president reminds us of the debt in his tweets," he said on the floor of Congress.
"Let the ships flow as quickly and as cheaply from wherever they may come from because this is an emergency."
Other politicians have spoken out in the past against the Jones Act for needlessly hurting Puerto Ricos economy.
Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona first introduced legislation to repeal the law in 2010 and tried again in July.
"I have long advocated the repeal of the Jones Act, an archaic and burdensome law that hinders free trade, stifles the economy, and ultimately harms consumers," he said.
On Tuesday, McCain also said he was urging DHS to waive the act for Puerto Rico to aid its recovery efforts.
In a letter to Acting Secretary Elaine Duke, he also asked that it assess how a long-term waiver or full repeal would effect hurricane-damaged communities, including those in Florida and Texas.
Economists at the University of Puerto Rico found that the Jones Act cost the islands economy $17 billion between 1990 and 2010, according to a 2012 report.
Republican Rep. Gary Palmer of Alabama cited this study in 2016 when he, too, called for Puerto Rico to be exempt from the Jones Act.
Three American territories are exempt from the Jones Act: the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam and American Samoa.
Other studies have said the Jones Act costs Puerto Rico, Hawaii and Alaska about $2.8 billion to $9.8 billion per year.
A report by the Government Accountability Office in 2013 said that although the Jones Act may make imports to the island more expensive, the dedicated routes also ensure reliability and keep more than 1,400 American jobs.
In April, the Trump administration had appeared to be moving forward with an Obama-era proposal to reverse the Jones Act, but it was withdrawn in May.
Protesters Removed From Senate Health Care Bill Hearing

Protesters chanting "No cuts for Medicaid, save our liberty!"
were forcibly removed from the Senate Finance Committee room Monday as lawmakers attempted to convene a hearing into the Republican Graham Cassidy health care bill.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

The Jones Act was last temporarily waived in December of 2012 so that petroleum products could be delivered for relief assistance after superstorm Sandy.
Op-eds in major national newspapers have endorsed calls to get rid of the act, including one published Monday in The New York Times by Nelson A. Denis, a former New York state assemblyman who has written extensively on Puerto Rico's economic crisis.
"A humanitarian crisis is about to explode in Puerto Rico," Denis wrote.
"But the consequences of Jones Act relief would be immediate and powerful.
This is not the time to price-gouge the entire population.
It is time for Congress to act ethically and responsibly and suspend the Jones Act in Puerto Rico."
The consequences of leaving the Jones Act in place could be dire for the 3.4 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico, some experts warn.
"It means extending the suffering," said Dennis Nixon, a professor of marine law at the University of Rhode Island.
"Its hot there today, theres a risk of thunder showers.
Theyve got no electricity, no drinking water."
Nixon said that it could lead to an even more painful financial crisis for Puerto Ricans, who might start leaving the island in a forced mass migration to the U.S.

Lebron James: Trump Trying to 'Divide Us'

Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James spoke Monday about the NFL protest saying President Trump is trying to divide the nation.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

He advocates suspending the act.
"It would hugely accelerate the ability to move goods into Puerto Rico, because youd basically be getting a 20 percent discount on everything," he said.
STATEMENT FROM SCA / Navy League / American Maritime Partnership

Jonathan Gutoff, a maritime law professor at the Roger Williams University School of Law in Bristol, Rhode Island, said that even though the Jones Act may not be hindering aid from reaching the island, it does increase prices for consumers and makes it harder for businesses to market their exports.
"Given that Puerto Rico is suffering from a fiscal crisis and the aftermath of Maria, anything to help Puerto Ricans should be done and the Jones Act should be suspended," he said.
Whether or not to repeal the act is a tougher question, Gutoff said.
Because of the role of the Jones Act in maintaining the American boat building industry for offshore work, more study should be done before a repeal, he said.
North Korean Minister: Trump Tweet Declared War

North Korea's top diplomat says President Donald Trump's tweet that leader Kim Jong Un "won't be around much longer" amounted to a declaration of war against his country.
Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters Monday that what he called Trump's "declaration of war" gives North Korea "every right" under the U.N. Charter to take countermeasures, "including the right to shoot down the United States strategic bombers even they're not yet inside the airspace border of our country."
Ri Yong also said that "all options will be on the operations table" for the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Ri referred to Trump's tweet Saturday that said: "Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

The American Maritime Partnership said it is actively working with the Trump administration, FEMA, The United States Maritime Administration (MARAD), and other relief organizations to deliver food, fuel, first aid supplies and building materials to Puerto Rico.
Approximately 9,500 containers of goods have already arrived on the island to help in recovery efforts, according to the partnership.
"A steady stream of additional supplies keeps arriving in Puerto Rico on American vessels and on international ships from around the world, said the charmain of the partnership, Thomas Allegretti.
The problem now is distributing supplies from Puerto Ricos ports inland by surface transportation."
The Shipbuilders Council of America did not immediately respond for comment on the Jones Act, but according to its website the council strongly supports the act, calling it "vital to Americas economic, national and homeland security."
CORRECTION (Sept. 27, 11:35 a.m.): An earlier version of this story misstated the number of U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico.
There are 3.4 million.
Trump Defends Tweets, Says NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During National Anthem

The President defended his tweets regarding NFL players kneeling during the national anthem over the weekend, saying criticism that the issue distracted him from the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico was unfair.
Jared Kushner denies that he had any ties to Russia during President Trump's election campaign.
(Published Monday, July 24, 2017)

White House aides regularly used personal devices for official business, while at least six close advisers to President Donald Trump occasionally used private email addresses, both Politico and the New York Times reported on Monday, citing anonymous sources.
Former chief of staff Reince Priebus tried to stop the "rampant" use of personal devices for official business, CNBC reported.
He asked aides in a July meeting to store personal phones in secure lockers or leave them at home, Politico reported, citing meeting attendees.
Priebus' request was largely ignored, the Politico report said, citing six current and former administration officials, advisors and people who correspond with the White House.
The New York Times also reported, citing current and former officials, that at least six of Trump's closest advisers used private email addresses for White House business.
Two Chicago police officers face disciplinary action after taking a knee and putting their fists in the air in a photo shared on social media, authorities confirmed Monday.
Patrick Fazio reports.
Two Chicago police officers face disciplinary action after taking a knee and putting their fists in the air in a photo shared on social media, authorities confirmed Monday.
The image was posted to the Instagram account @englewoodbarbiewhich has nearly 30,000 followers.
The account features other photos of people taking a knee.
The Chicago Sun-Times reports the Instagram handle belongs to Englewood community activist Aleta Clark.
In the Instagram post, two uniformed Chicago police officers kneel with a woman.
One of the officers rests his hand on her shoulder.
The photo is paired with a caption that reads: That Moment when you walk into the police station and ask the Men of Color are they Against Police Brutality and Racism & they say Yes... then you ask them if they support Colin Kapernick... and they also say yes... then you ask them to Kneel.!
That Moment when you walk into the police station and ask the Men of Color are they Against Police Brutality and Racism & they say Yes... then you ask them if they support Colin Kapernick... and they also say yes... then you ask them to Kneel.!
#ColinKaepernick #WeSupportYou A post shared by Aleta (@englewoodbarbie) on Sep 24, 2017 at 11:34am PDT

CPDs code of conduct does not allow officers to participate "in any partisan political campaign or activity."
We are aware of the photo, and we will address it in the same way we have handled previous incidents in which officers have made political statements while in uniform, with a reprimand and a reminder of department policies, the department said in a statement.
The provocative post comes after President Donald Trumps sharp rebuke Friday of NFL players who protest during the national anthem at football games.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners when somebody disrespects our flag to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he's fired, he's fired," Trump said at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sat, then kneeled, for the playing of the anthem beginning in Aug. 2016.
He said he did it to call attention to the oppression of minorities across the United States.
Kaepernick's actions sparked a national conversation that several other NFL players joined, protesting on multiple occasions and continuing even after Kaepernick became a free agent at the end of the season.
The president has since found himself at the center of a feud with the NFL.
Many have vocalized that the display is an offense to military veterans; while others say it is a peaceful protest against racism and police brutality.
Martin Preib, a spokesman for the Fraternal Order of Police, said it was not appropriate to comment at this time, on the photo.
A follow up post on Clarks page says the cops pictured kneeling and raising their fists with her, reportedly in a South Side precinct, the officers are doing a noble thing.
Don't be Afraid to be Controversial..
I will stand behind them!
Go Bother the killers of Sandra Bland, Michael Brown, Tamar Rice, Trayvon Martin,Philando Castile and the list goes on and on.. these men did a Noble thing!
They let me know that even in uniform they're against Police Brutality & Racism!
They took a Kneel for Us when nobody else would that looked like them!
A post shared by Aleta (@englewoodbarbie) on Sep 25, 2017 at 2:53pm PDT

"The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race, Trump tweeted Monday morning.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!"
NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart responded Monday during a conference call defending players' rights to bring attention to social issues through peaceful protest.
"Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker room talk is," Lockhart said, in an apparent reference to the "Access Hollywood" tapes in which Trump bragged about sexually assaulting women.
Officers have faced reprimands in the past for actions such as leaving a red Make America Great Again hat on the dashboard of a police cruiser and playing Lynyrd Skynyrds Sweet Home Alabama at an anti-police violence demonstration.
On his first address to the United Nation's General Assembly, President Donald Trump called for more countries to join together against North Korea and Iran, and for Venezuela to restore "democracy and political freedoms."
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 19, 2017)

Twitter said Monday that President Donald Trump's weekend tweet warning that North Korea "won't be around much longer!"
didn't violate its terms of service, which it said it would clarify publicly at a later date, NBC News reported.
Trump tweeted Sunday that if North Korea's foreign minister "echoed thoughts of Little Rocket Man [Trump's nickname for North Korean leader Kim Jong Un] they won't be around much longer!"
In a thread on its Public Policy page, the company said it had been asked why it didn't take down Trump's tweet in light of its rule reading: "You may not make threats of violence or promote violence, including threatening or promoting terrorism."
"We hold all accounts to the same rules, and consider a number of factors when assessing whether Tweets violate our Rules," the company said.
"Among the considerations is 'newsworthiness' and whether a Tweet is of public interest."
Trump: NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During Anthem
Protesters chanting "No cuts for Medicaid, save our liberty!"
were forcibly removed from the Senate Finance Committee room Monday as lawmakers attempted to convene a hearing into the Republican Graham Cassidy health care bill.
In this photo shared on Twitter on Sept. 24, 2017, World War II Veteran John Middlemas, 97, takes a knee in support of protesting NFL players.
A photo of a 97-year-old WWII veteran kneeling to show solidarity with protesting NFL players is being shared widely on social media after the vet's grandson posted it to Twitter Sunday.
Brennan Gilmore posted the photo of his grandfather, John Middlemas, around 7:30 a.m. Sunday, before National Football League players knelt during the national anthem, NBC News reported.
My grandpa is a 97-year-old WWII vet & Missouri farmer who wanted to join (with) those who #TakeaKnee: those kids have every right to protest, Gilmore wrote as a caption on the tweet.
As of Monday, the photo had been shared more than 140,000 times and liked by more than 377,000 users.
After President Donald Trump demanded that the NFL fire athletes who do not stand during the national anthem, more than 200 players knelt, sat or otherwise expressed protest during Sunday games across the country in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick and in opposition to the president's stance.
Here are past examples when U.S. athletes protested during competition.
Republicans may introduce another plan to repeal and replace Obamacare as early as Wednesday.
Senators Bill Cassidy, R-La., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., wrote the bill, which relies on block grants to the states.
"Take the money and power out of Washington, the same amount of money we would have spent on Obamacare, and let states design the systems," Senator Graham said.
Critics say the proposal would give states a chance for a waiver that could eliminate the requirement to cover pre-existing conditions.
It will be a close vote.
Several Republican senators spoke out against the plan, including Senator Susan Collins of Maine, who said safeguards for americans need to be stronger.
To entice senators on the fence or voting no, a revised Graham-Cassidy plan will be unveiled Monday giving more money to hold-out states.
As he prepared to board Air Force One to return to Washington from New Jersey on Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017, President Donald Trump said that NFL players protesting the national anthem are "very disrespectful to our country," calling again on team owners to stop what he considers unpatriotic displays in America's most popular sport.
(Published Sunday, Sept. 24, 2017)

After his racially charged confrontation with athletes and sports teams about kneeling during the national anthem, President Donald Trump is getting a much-needed morale boost from his supporters who see the refusal to stand for the anthem as a show of disrespect, NBC News reported.
Trump made a fiery declaration on Friday that National Football League owners should "fire or suspend" players who kneel, which was met with criticism and protests on the field Sunday.
Republican strategists say Trump found an issue that reminds his supporters where he stands on cultural issues at a time when his allies are lining up against him, his effort to dismantle "Obamacare" is hanging by a thread and the president is teaming up with Democratic leaders.
"He is giving lots of red meat to his base to fire them up before a crucial election," GOP strategist John Feehery said of the Alabama Republican Senate runoff, which pits Trump-backed Sen. Luther Strange against anti-establishment favorite Roy Moore.
"I am fascinated by how the Democrats are falling into Trump's trap and fully backing the protesters."
Marc Short, White House director for legislative affairs, listens to a question during an off-camera press briefing at the White House in Washington, Monday, July 10, 2017.
Despite a rushed timetable and the daunting task of pulling together enough votes, the White House is planning on a Senate vote on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill this week, White House Director of Legislative Affairs Marc Short said on Sundays Meet The Press, NBC News reported.
He claims they are aiming for Wednesday.
There are millions of Americans who will benefit from this bill, Short said.
In fact, we think every state will benefit.
Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who decides when the Senate could address the bill, has said they intend to vote this week on the legislation thats aimed at restructuring the U.S. health care system and repealing some of the signature elements of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.
THE TAKE with ABC News' Rick Klein

If intra-party war is what they want, that is what they have.
Roy Moore's win in Alabama moves a divided Republican Party even further in a Trumpian direction  further, in fact, than Trump himself would take it.
It's telling that, in celebrating Moore's victory, Steve Bannon immediately took credit for the retirement of Sen. Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who was considered for the Trump ticket and secretary of state.
Bannon and company already considered it open season on incumbent Republicans, and now he has a giant piece of evidence from a voting base in a deep-red state to cite in recruiting and considering options.
Arizona, Nevada, Mississippi, Tennessee, Utah - the map suddenly opens up with possibilities for Trumpist forces, if not necessarily for Trump himself.
As for President Trump, he seems certain to turn (again) on Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in the wake of last night's loss, not to mention the latest health care whiff.
Does anyone think Trump will defer to the establishment again when it comes to choosing which candidates to support, even if that means going against sitting office-holders?
What happens when the insurgency is run out of the presidency?
THE FUTURE FOR HEALTH CARE

Repeal and replace is dead  again.
And there's no guarantee for what comes next.
The top Republican and top Democrats on the Senate health committee both said yesterday they were willing to take a second crack at negotiating smaller, bipartisan fixes to try to stabilize the individual insurance markets under the Affordable Care Act.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell implied their route was the obvious next step.
But even if those committee members come back to the table, it could be hard to keep them seated.
Tough talks can be a lot tougher without a promise that any deal reached has a real future.
Just a few weeks ago the president and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan indicated they had little interest in signing a bill that fundamentally propped up the law instead of repealing it.
How they respond to bipartisan talks this go-around could make all the difference.
On a policy level too, Sens.
Lindsey Graham and Bernie Sanders agreed this week that insurance companies, in their opinion, had profited too much under current law, ABC News MaryAlice Parks' notes.
If the Senate committee agrees to a deal that reinforces federal subsidies to insurance companies, can that even pass the Senate, to say nothing of the House or the White House?
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TODAY

Happy tax day: President Trump travels to Indianapolis to outline his tax reform plan, the last major legislative item standing in 2017.
Stranger things: The president's endorsement and $8 million from Mitch McConnell-aligned groups couldn't help an incumbent senator win.
Alabama Sen. Luther Strange was defeated in last night's GOP primary runoff by firebrand, anti-establishment candidate Roy Moore.
Another blow to the GOP establishment: Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee announced Tuesday he won't seek re-election in 2018.
Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy conceded that they "don't have the votes" on their health care proposal.
Trump said Tuesday "we are totally prepared" for military engagement with North Korea, though it's not a "preferred option," the same day his administration announced new sanctions on eight North Korean banks and over two dozen North Korean officials working overseas for those banks.
QUOTE OF THE DAY

"I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL.
I was ashamed of what was taking place."
-- President Trump

NEED TO READ with ABC News' Paola Chavez

Analysis: Trumpism rolls over Trump in Alabama Senate race.
Even Trump can't control Trumpism.
The sweeping victory by Roy Moore in the Alabama GOP runoff is the first major electoral defeat for Trump, who endorsed and campaigned for appointed Sen. Luther Strange.
It's arguably a bigger loss for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whose super PAC dumped millions into the race in a losing attempt to beat back a challenger he feared would make a difficult senator.
Still, the scrambling of political loyalties and agendas just might be a development President Trump would welcome.
http://abcn.ws/2k2WKHg

What's next for health care in the Senate.
While Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced they would not vote on the latest bill from Senators Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Bill Cassidy, R-La., this week, Republicans could return to their campaign promise to repeal former president Obama's signature health care law down the road.
http://abcn.ws/2hvBhGk

Powerhouse Politics podcast: ESPN Radio host says NFL owners aren't really demonstrating unity.
The solidarity expressed by NFL owners with their players in response to President Trump's criticism of those who take a knee during the national anthem does not actually reflect the unity they are promoting, claims ESPN Radio host Bomani Jones.
"I thought it was strategically brilliant for Jerry Jones," the ESPN personality told ABC News' Jonathan Karl and Rick Klein during the "Political Powerhouse" podcast.
"This allowed him to be part of the same demonstration of post solidarity that most NFL owners have been on and allowed players to make a point that they were kneeling just like the other players were."
http://abcn.ws/2wVEAIL

Investigators follow flow of money to Trump from wealthy donors with Russian ties.
Three Americans with significant Russian business connections contributed almost $2 million to political funds controlled by Donald Trump, ABC News has learned.
The timing of contributions coming from U.S. citizens with ties to Russia is now being questioned by investigators for special counsel Robert Mueller, according to a Republican campaign aide interviewed by Mueller's team.
http://abcn.ws/2xE0zYz

After Alabama, GOP anti-establishment wing declares all-out war in 2018.
The Washington Post

Exclusive: IRS shares information with special counsel in Russia probe.
CNN

Sean Spicer lawyers up as Russia probe heats up.
The Daily Beast

The Note is a daily ABC News feature that highlights the key political moments of the day ahead.
Please check back tomorrow for the latest.
Even Trump cant control Trumpism.
The sweeping victory by Roy Moore in the Alabama GOP runoff is the first major electoral defeat for Trump, who endorsed and campaigned for appointed Sen. Luther Strange.
Its arguably a bigger loss for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, whose super PAC dumped millions into the race in a losing attempt to beat back a challenger he feared would make a difficult senator.
The Alabama Senate runoff leaves fragile governing coalitions with an even more tenuous grasp on power, leaving the Trump agenda in further peril and reordering the 2018 landscape.
Still, the scrambling of political loyalties and agendas just might be a development President Trump would welcome.
This is a setback with consequences as nuanced as the odd circumstances that left Trump and McConnell on the same side of this peculiar race in the first place.
Among the big winners is Steve Bannon, the presidents former chief strategist, who gambled that he and his allies could help beat back the presidents own pick in a state where Trump is deeply popular.
Bannon directly addressed the Republican establishment in his election-eve appearance for Moore, naming McConnell, Karl Rove, and other GOP leaders who supported Strange in suggesting that a movement is only building: They think youre a pack of morons.
They think youre nothing but rubes.
Moores primary victory will invite Democrats to invest in a deep-red state in advance of the December general election.
But the likeliest final outcome will be the addition a Republican senator with a famously combative streak that figures to have him frustrating legislative efforts.
Moore in the Senate will leave McConnell with yet another hard-to-corral member of his caucus - maybe one more difficult to get in line than even Rand Paul or Ted Cruz.
And the fear of further far-right primary challengers could make McConnells job even harder, while also convincing more Republicans in the House and Senate to contemplate retirement.
Hal Yeager/Getty Images

On Tuesday, while polls were still open in Alabama, the first GOP senator this cycle announced that hes stepping down at the end of his term.
Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., announced hes leaving the Senate just a day after reports indicated that Bannon had met with a potential primary challenger.
Those close to Trump expect him to lash out at McConnell over the loss, particularly after Senate Republicans fell short yet again in efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare.
The setback could also convince him to go with his gut in other Senate races, including involving in emerging primary races where incumbent Republicans in Arizona and Nevada are facing pro-Trump challengers.
Its exceedingly unlikely that this particular confluence of events will present themselves again, in 2018 or basically ever.
Trump and McConnell put their combined political weight behind Strange, who was appointed by a governor who has since resigned in scandal, out of loyalty and a hope that he would offer more predictable support for the GOP agenda.
Marvin Gentry/REUTERS

Lining up against Trump were Bannon and other anti-establishment figures, including another former White House aide, Sebastian Gorka, and Sarah Palin.
Trump seemed to second-guess his endorsement on Friday, in a campaign rally that of course got overshadowed by his comments about the NFL.
I might have made a mistake," Trump told the crowd at the rally.
"They're going to say, Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.
It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment.
All that may be said, along with the fact that there is not likely to be another Senate candidate quite as colorful as Moore.
Twice he was forced off the state Supreme Court because he defied federal court edicts.
He has said homosexual conduct should be illegal and that he believes President Obama was not born in the United States.
At his own election-eve rally, he whipped out a gun to demonstrate his support for the Second Amendment.
Fundamentally, though he praises Trump effusively, he may not be a reliable vote for Trumps agenda.
Moore has developed a reputation as an ideologue, whereas the president by nature is a dealmaker.
Few expect the president to do anything but declare victory, in a race where both Republicans raced to be more pro-Trump.
But this victory will carry severe consequences for policy, while pointing to the limits the president himself faces in corralling the forces that propelled him to office.
Former Alabama Supreme Court Justice Roy Moore defeated Sen. Luther Strange in Alabamas Republican senate primary runoff election Tuesday, delivering a blow to President Donald Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who backed the incumbent legislator.
Moore advances to face Democratic nominee and former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones in the general election contest on December 12.
The special election gained national prominence because of what was at stake: the political sway of Trump's administration versus the base that helped him win the White House.
In his speech, Moore acknowledged Trump's endorsement of his opponent, but said he was still fully supportive of the president and his agenda.
"Dont let anybody in the press say that because [Trump] supported my opponent I do not support him," Moore urged a crowd of cheering supporters at the RCA Activity Center in Montgomery.
The president made a personal investment in the Strange campaign, holding a rally for the senator -- who was appointed in February to the seat formerly held by Attorney General Jeff Sessions -- last week in Huntsville, where he admitted he might have made a mistake in backing the incumbent senator and pledged to back Moore should he win.
Strange also had the backing of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and the Senate Leadership Fund pumped $7 million into the race.
In the past week Trump and Vice President Mike Pence traveled to Alabama to stump with Strange.
Moore, on the other hand, is a well-known but controversial figure in the state, who was twice removed as a jurist from the Alabama Supreme Court.
In 2003, he defied an order to remove a Ten Commandments monument from a state courthouse, and in 2016 he ordered state probate judges not to issue same sex-marriage licenses, in defiance of the U.S. Supreme Courts ruling.
Trump congratulated Moore in a tweet just as the jurist took to the stage at his election night party to deliver a victory speech.
The president's message mistakenly encouraged Moore to win in November, a month before the general election occurs, though he later replaced the post with a new tweet correcting the month to December.
Congratulations to Roy Moore on his Republican Primary win in Alabama.
Luther Strange started way back & ran a good race.
Roy, WIN in Dec!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 27, 2017

Moore also told reporters that the president called his cell phone after his victory, but that he was in a crowd of people and did not hear the call.
The new Alabama Senate nominee said he had also spoken with Sens.
Mike Lee, Rand Paul and Ted Cruz, the three members of the chamber most ideologically aligned with Moore.
Moore later tweeted he did have a chance to speak with Trump on the phone, and shared a photo on Twitter.
Great to talk with President Trump tonight about #ALSen!
I very much look forward to working with the President to win in December!
pic.twitter.com/A72Fdc6Mua  Judge Roy Moore (@MooreSenate) September 27, 2017

The former judge received the support of former White House aides Steve Bannon and Sebastian Gorka, former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, actor Chuck Norris, and Duck Dynasty star Phil Robertson.
Following his win, Moore tweeted, "CONSERVATIVE VICTORY HAS COME TO #ALSEN!
Because of you, tonight, the establishment has been DEFEATED in Alabama!
THANK YOU!"
CONSERVATIVE VICTORY HAS COME TO #ALSEN!
Because of you, tonight, the establishment has been DEFEATED in Alabama!
THANK YOU!
Judge Roy Moore (@MooreSenate) September 27, 2017

While Moore supporters at the Montgomery rally said they fully supported Trump, several said they also wished he had simply not picked a side in the Republican primary.
"He should have never gotten in the middle of it," said Win Johnson of Montgomery.
But despite an undercurrent of frustration with Trump for picking sides, Bannon and other Moore endorsers sought to present a united front, channeling Trump's message at each event.
At a Moore campaign rally Monday night, Bannon paraphrased William Shakespeare's funeral oration by Mark Antony for Julius Caesar, saying, "We did not come here to defy Donald Trump.
We came here to praise and honor him."
Sessions held the Senate seat for 20 years before he joined the Trump administration as attorney general.
In February, Alabama's then-Gov.
Robert Bentley appointed Strange, the state's attorney general at the time, to fill the Senate seat until the next general election, in 2018.
After Bentley's resignation because of a political scandal, thenLt.
Kay Ivey became governor and in April called for a special election.
Strange was dogged by accusations that he accepted a quid pro quo arrangement, because he asked state lawmakers in November to suspend their impeachment investigation into Bentley so that his office could conduct "related work."
Known as "Big Luther"  at 6 foot 9, he is the tallest senator in U.S. history  he has also faced attacks for his work as a lobbyist for Sonat Offshore, an influential gas utility, and as a corporate lawyer in Birmingham.
In a statement congratulating Moore Tuesday night, Strange wrote that he "will go back to work with President Trump and do all I can to advance his agenda over the next few weeks."
He added that he was "especially grateful for the support of President Trump and Vice President Pence, as well as the strong example set by my friends Richard Shelby and Jeff Sessions."
Evan Vucci/AP

Before his run for Senate, Moore was a controversial figure, displaying a wooden carving of the Ten Commandments in his courtroom in the 1990s when he served as a circuit court judge.
After he was elected Alabama's chief justice, Moore refused to remove a marble monument of the Ten Commandments that he installed outside the state Supreme Court in 2001, leading to his removal from office in 2003.
He was re-elected chief justice in November 2012 but was suspended in May 2016 after ordering state probate judges to ignore the U.S. Supreme Court's June 2015 ruling that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide.
He resigned in April of this year.
The first primary election was on Aug. 15.
None of the nine Republican candidates garnered over 50 percent of the vote, triggering a runoff.
Moore and Strange were the two top candidates; Moore won 38.9 percent of the vote, and Strange garnered 32.8 percent.
Republican leaders won't hold a vote this week on their Obamacare replacement plan, the Graham-Cassidy bill, after three members of the Senate said they wouldn't approve the measure.
The Graham-Cassidy bill was the Republicans' latest bid to honor a years-long promise to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, the signature legislation of the Obama administration, and their latest defeat on the issue.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., one of the sponsors of the legislation, vowed to return to health care after tax reform and said it was not a matter of "if" but "when" health reform is achieved.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said that the Senate would turn to tax reform.
In a statement, the bills four authors -- Graham, Bill Cassidy, R-La., Dean Heller R-Nev., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis. -- said the bills failure came down to circumstances under our control and not under our control, the process and timing of this vote did not line up this time.
We will push on, they wrote.
The most frequent frustration we heard from our colleagues ranging from Sen. McCain to Sen. Murkowski was that time and process were the biggest obstacles to their support.
There is no doubt about their commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and no doubt about their support of local control, they continued.
It is just a matter of time until we fulfill our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare with something far better.
For the American people, when it comes to Obamacare, the worst is yet to come.
That is why we believe Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson is needed and will eventually pass.
Under current budget reconciliation rules, Senate Republicans could not reach a simple majority of 51 votes to pass Graham-Cassidy before Sept. 30.
Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., the chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced in a statement that he won't be running for re-election next year.
"After much thought, consideration and family discussion over the past year, Elizabeth and I have decided that I will leave the United States Senate when my term expires at the end of 2018," he said in a statement Tuesday, referring to his wife.
"When I ran for the Senate in 2006, I told people that I couldnt imagine serving for more than two terms," he continued.
"Understandably, as we have gained influence, that decision has become more difficult.
But I have always been drawn to the citizen legislator model, and while I realize it is not for everyone, I believe with the kind of service I provide, it is the right one for me."
J. Scott Applewhite/AP Photo

An early ally of Donald Trump's and at one time considered a potential Trump running mate, Corker has been a willing critic of the president in recent months.
In the aftermath of the violent white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, in August, Corker said Trump "has not yet been able to demonstrate the stability nor some of the competence that he needs to be successful."
Corker said in his statement that he wishes to continue his involvement in public service and that representing Tennessee in the Senate "has been the greatest privilege of my life."
He added that he and his staff "will continue to have an impact for the remainder of our term."
Corker is in his second term in the Senate, after first being elected in 2006.
He previously served as the mayor of Chattanooga, Tennessee.
President Donald Trump indicated again Tuesday a willingness to take military action with regard to North Korea, a day after that country's foreign minister accused the American president of declaring war.
"We are totally prepared for [a military option]," said Trump at a White House press conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.
"Not a preferred option, but if we take that option, it will be devastating."
On Monday, North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters in New York that after Trump's remarks at the United Nations last week -- in which he threatened to "destroy" the country -- "Our country has every right to make countermeasures."
The foreign minister added that such "countermeasures" included "shoot[ing] down United States strategic bombers, even when not inside the airspace border of our country."
The back and forth between Trump and the North Korean government this week continues a months-long war of words between the two countries that has seen North Korea threaten the U.S. territory of Guam and the nation's leader, Kim Jong Un, call Trump a "dotard" who exhibits "mentally deranged behavior."
"[Kim] is acting very badly," said Trump at the White House Tuesday.
"He is saying things that should never, ever be said, and we're replying to those things, but it's a reply.
It's not an original statement.
It's a reply."
Trump also criticized previous administrations, saying that the "situation" with North Korea "should have been handled 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, 10 years ago and five years ago."
"You had various administrations  which left me a mess," said the president.
"But I'll fix the mess."
President Donald Trump's longtime confidant Roger Stone denied allegations of collusion with Russia during the presidential campaign, following a closed-door interview with the House Intelligence Committee on Tuesday.
"I expressed my view that I am aware of no evidence whatsoever of collusion of the Russian state with anyone in the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with Donald Trump," Stone told reporters after the three-hour-plus interview.
Stone said he answered all the panel's questions, except for one: the name of the intermediary he used to communicate with WikiLeaks and Julian Assange.
Now, top members of the committee are discussing whether to subpoena Stone for that information, which they see as crucial to their investigation into Russia efforts to influence the presidential race.
"The intermediary is a journalist and the conversation was off the record.
I am not going to burn someone who I spoke to off the record," Stone said after the interview.
He added that he would ask permission to share his contact's identity with the committee.
Adam Schiff, D-Calif., the panel's top Democrat, told reporters the committee could subpoena Stone if he doesn't "cooperate in the future," but declined to say which questions Stone failed to answer.
Calling a subpoena "premature," Rep. Mike Conaway, R-Texas, the Republican leading the investigation, told ABC News he wants to give Stone a chance to cooperate.
"If he can get that done in a relatively quick time-frame, turnaround, then we wont need it," he said.
"But if he cant get that done Ill discuss with Mr. Schiff what our next steps will be."
Stone said he had no prior knowledge about the hacking of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta's email or the release of those emails by WikiLeaks, despite tweeting about Podesta's "time in the barrel" before the messages appeared online.
In a more than 40-page statement released before the interview, he also criticized members of the committee  including Adam Schiff of California, the panel's top Democrat, and Jackie Speier, another California Democrat  for making "provably false statements" about him.
"I will not let myself be a punching bag for people with ill intentions or political motives," he said.
Stone briefly held a formal role on Trump's presidential campaign.
He has known Trump for 40 years and urged him to run for president for decades.
Arriving on Capitol Hill with his attorneys Tuesday morning, Stone told reporters he felt "excellent."
He said he planned to tell the committee "the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth."
Stone is among several former campaign operatives the House Intelligence Committee has sought to question.
The panel has met with Podesta and Michael Caputo, a Trump adviser close to Stone.
The panel will also interview Boris Epshteyn, a former Trump campaign adviser, on Thursday.
Shortly after announcing plans to visit the Puerto Rico this week, President Donald Trump said Tuesday he is "very proud" of the response to the devastation left by Hurricane Maria on the island, claiming that relief efforts have been described as "amazing."
At a joint White House press conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, Trump described the challenges faced by the U.S. territory in the aftermath of the storm but touted the work being done to bring "water, food and supplies" to the island.
"Everybody has said, it's amazing the job we have done in Puerto Rico," said Trump.
"We're very proud of it."
On Monday, Trump faced criticism for tweeting that Puerto Rico is in "deep trouble," highlighting the U.S. territory's financial woes and "broken infrastructure" instead of offering support or reassurance to the victims of Maria.
"Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with," Trump tweeted.
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble..  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities - and doing well.
#FEMA  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump also drew ire for focusing more on his feud with the NFL than the dire situation in Puerto Rico.
The president announced earlier in the day Tuesday his plans to visit the island next week.
He explained that next Tuesday is the earliest he can visit the island because he does not want to "disrupt the relief efforts."
"Puerto Rico is very important to me and Puerto Rico -- the people are fantastic people," Trump said from the Oval Office.
"I grew up in New York so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto Ricans.
These are good people and we have to help them.
The island is devastated."
Recovery has been slow to restore food, water and power to the island.
Trump argued that part of the difficulty in getting supplies to Puerto Rico is that it's "an island sitting in the middle of an ocean, and its a big ocean."
Trump also said that the U.S. is sending "a massive shipment of food and water and supplies to Puerto Rico" and will continue to do so on an "hourly basis."
Hurricane Maria is the third natural disaster Trump has had to respond to during his presidency.
After record flooding from Hurricane Harvey devastated parts of Texas and Louisiana, Trump made two visits, first to Corpus Christi and Austin on Aug. 29 and later to Houston and then Lake Charles, Louisiana, on Sept. 2.
Trump also traveled this month to Florida in the wake of Hurricane Irma.
'We've got A-pluses in Texas and Florida and we will also on Puerto Rico," Trump said.
Trump was criticized after his first trip to Texas for not meeting face-to-face with Harvey survivors, instead spending his time with government officials.
Ricardo Rossello, the governor of Puerto Rico, told ABC News that Hurricane Maria has caused the "biggest catastrophe in Puerto Rico's history."
So far, there have been 16 reported deaths on the island in the aftermath.
If we don't get unprecedented collaboration from the federal government here, this could collapse into a humanitarian crisis," Rossello told ABC News.
U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions today defended the presidents recent criticism of NFL protests, telling an audience at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., that the "president has free speech rights, too.
He called the protests by NFL team owners and players a big mistake, adding that it will weaken the commitment we have to this nation.
Sessions' speech, which focused on First Amendment rights, came amid President Donald Trump's rants against NFL players who take a knee during the national anthem, suggesting in a tweet this morning that the NFL should establish rules barring players from kneeling.
Several students, dressed in "Black Lives Matter" T-shirts, sat silently with tape over their mouths as Sessions addressed the audience.
The attorney general, who was hosted by the Georgetown Center for the Constitution at Georgetown University Law Center, faced backlash even before the event began.
Before Sessions took the stage, Georgetown Law faculty and others knelt outside in protest of his speech.
A group of more than 30 Georgetown Law Center faculty members also condemned the "hypocrisy" of his speech.
"We acknowledge our colleague's right to invite Attorney General Sessions to speak on campus.
However, we, the undersigned, condemn the hypocrisy, about Attorney General Jeff Sessions speaking about free speech," according to a statement from the group.
"Attorney General Sessions is a key cabinet member in an administration headed by a president who spent last weekend denouncing athletes engaged in free expression and calling for them to be fired.
President Trump calls African-American professional football players kneeling in quiet protest 'sons of bitches' and angry, armed white supremacists 'very fine people,'" the statement continued.
Jesus Rodriguez/The Hoya

During his remarks, he announced that the Department of Justice is filing a statement of interest in a campus free speech case this week and we will be filing more in the weeks and months to come.
"We will enforce federal law, defend free speech, and protect students free expression from whatever end of the political spectrum it may come," he said in prepared remarks.
Sessions spoke specifically about a public college in Battle Creek, Michigan, where he said a state official had students jailed for handing out copies of the United States Constitution last year.
"Freedom of thought and speech on the American campus are under attack.
The American university was once the center of academic freedom, a place of robust debate, a forum for the competition of ideas.
But it is transforming into an echo chamber of political correctness and homogeneous thought, a shelter for fragile egos," Sessions said.
He derided student codes of conduct related to speech that he said "substantially infringe on constitutionally protected speech."
Sessions gave examples of Boise State University in Idaho, where, he said, the Student Code of Conduct prohibits "[c]onduct that a reasonable person would find offensive."
At Clemson University in South Carolina, the Student Code of Conduct bans any verbal or physical act that creates an "offensive educational, work or living environment," said Sessions.
"Who decides what is offensive and what is acceptable?
The university is about the search for truth, not the imposition of truth by a government censor," he said.
Sessions also railed against "free-speech zones" on campus, saying that they are "eerily similar to what the Supreme Court warned against" in its 1969 Tinker v. Des Moines decision.
During his remarks, Sessions blamed school administrators for favoring "hecklers disruptive tactics" over a speakers First Amendment rights.
Sessions said the "university is "where the next generation of Americans are equipped to contribute to and live in a diverse and free society filled with many, often contrary, voices."
"And let me be clear that protecting free speech does not mean condoning violence like we saw recently in Charlottesville.
Indeed, I call upon universities to stand up against those who would silence free expression by violence or other means on their campuses," he said.
President Donald Trump continued his rant against NFL players who take a knee during the national anthem during his joint press conference with the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, calling it an "important situation."
"I wasnt preoccupied with the NFL.
I was ashamed of what was taking place," Trump said when asked if he shouldve been focused on offering assistance to Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
He added, "Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
To be honest with you, thats an important function of working.
Its called respect for our country."
Earlier today, he suggested in a tweet that the NFL should bar players from kneeling and slammed the NFL's ratings, saying they were "way down," except for when audiences tune in to see whether there are protests during the national anthem.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can't kneel during our National Anthem!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Today is the fourth consecutive day that he has openly criticized the league and its players.
Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

He also commented on Monday night's Dallas CowboysArizona Cardinals game.
During last night's game, Cowboys players and owner Jerry Jones linked arms and knelt before "The Star-Spangled Banner."
While it played, they stood but continued to link arms.
At first, Trump pointed out that there was booing and "great anger" when they knelt.
He wrote of the team's standing for the anthem, "Big progress being made."
The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard.
Great anger  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem.
Big progress being made-we all love our country!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump ignited a firestorm Friday evening when he criticized professional athletes who protest by kneeling during the national anthem.
"Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now'?"
he said at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Since then, Trump has doubled down on his stance in a series of tweets and comments to reporters.
Over the weekend, NFL teams, players and owners from across the league protested peacefully by kneeling, locking arms or skipping the national anthem in response to his criticism of players he says are disrespecting the U.S. with their protests.
Today, Alabama Republicans will vote in a primary runoff for the Senate seat previously occupied by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
A first round of voting failed to yield a majority for a single candidate.
Now, the top two candidates are competing for the GOP nomination in a race that has gained national prominence and become what some are calling a proxy war between the populist and establishment wings of the Republican Party.
Here's a look at what to know about the Alabama primary runoff:

Why the Senate seat is open

The seat was previously held by Alabama native Jeff Sessions, who served as senator for 20 years before his nomination by President Trump to serve as attorney general.
Following Sessions' confirmation in February, then-Alabama Gov.
Robert Bentley appointed the state's attorney general, Luther Strange, to temporarily fill Sessions Senate seat until the general election.
Bentley later resigned after allegations that he used state resources as governor to hide an affair with one of his top aides.
Lt. Gov.
Kay Ivey replaced Bentley as governor following the resignation, and called for a special election in April.
A history of support for Republicans

Sessions was first elected in 1997, and since then, the state has been represented by two Republican senators.
In his last election, in 2014, Sessions was unchallenged and won the general election with more than 97 percent of the vote.
The senior senator from Alabama, Richard Shelby, was elected for the first time in 1987 and is not up for reelection until 2022.
In the 2016 presidential election, Trump won Alabama with 62 percent of the vote.
Who is running

Among the nine Republicans who originally ran for the vacant seat, two emerged at front-runners and were sent to the runoff: now-incumbent Sen. Luther Strange and former judge Roy Moore.
Luther Strange

Al Drago/The New York Times via Redux

Strange officially stated his candidacy for Sessions seat on Dec. 6, just 18 days after Trump announced he would be picking Sessions for attorney general.
He was appointed in February to temporarily fill the seat left by Sessions.
Previously, Strange served as the attorney general for Alabama.
He ran for lieutenant governor in 2006 and won the Republican primary, but lost the general election.
In August, Strange was endorsed by Trump, who tweeted that Strange "has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama.
He has my complete and total endorsement!"
Senator Luther Strange has done a great job representing the people of the Great State of Alabama.
He has my complete and total endorsement!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 9, 2017

Since then, Trump has periodically tweeted his support and encouragement for Strange.
He appeared with him Friday at a campaign rally in Huntsville.
Strange has come under fire from his rival for the substantial advertising support he has received from the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that has been known to support Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Politico reported that Steven Law, the PAC's president, said, While he doesn't direct what we do, McConnell has made it very clear that Luther's race is his number one political priority right now.
According to Politico, the fund had spent $3.5 million on the race as of late July, including an ad tying then-rival Rep. Mo Brooks to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.

During the GOP debate, held last Thursday without a moderator, Strange was also attacked for how he became a United States senator.
When he was tapped by Bentley for the Senate seat, Strange was the very man leading the investigation into the Alabama governor's misconduct, which raised questions about the appropriateness of the appointment.
Roy Moore

Roy Moore previously served as the chief justice for the Alabama Supreme Court, but was suspended in November 2003 for refusing federal court orders to take down a Ten Commandments monument from the Alabama Judicial Building.
Bill Clark/CQ Roll Call via Newscom

He was reelected to the position in 2013 but was again removed in May 2016 for ordering other judges not to issue same-sex marriage licenses, although the states ban on the matter had been overturned.
He announced his Senate bid in late April.
Moore was endorsed by actor Chuck Norris, who said, "Judge Roy Moore is the real deal.
The Washington establishment knows they wont be able to count on him, but Alabama voters can...Thats why the Washington establishment is spending millions trying to defeat Judge Moore."
Moore's other notable endorsements include several Trump supporters such as former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin, former White House strategist Steve Bannon and Duck Dynasty's Phil Robertson.
Moore has released advertisements highly critical of Republicans in Washington including McConnell, Sens.
Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., and Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, R-Wis.

"Send them all a message," one ad says, calling out the majority leader's "D.C. slime machine."
Recently, Moore has come under fire for appearing to refer to Native Americans and Asians as "reds" and "yellows" in a campaign speech.
Last night at a campaign rally, Moore pulled a gun out of his pocket as he said that, counter to his competitors' claims, he is a supporter of the Second Amendment.
Why this race matters

At a time when the presidents support within his own party wavers, the Alabama special election could reflect how much influence Trump has had in the first year of his presidency.
Political science experts say the outcome could be symbolic of voters' current view on Trump.
Cynthia Bowling, chair of the political science department at Auburn University, told ABC News this summer that "if there is ever going to be an election that would signify a movement away from Trump, it would be an election where Trump's ratings are really low," and in a solid Republican state, like Alabama.
According to Richard Fording, a professor of political science at the University of Alabama, this election "will continue to be influenced by Trump" and that "it will flat out be a referendum on his performance as president."
The race has further significance for Republicans; a loss could potentially shift Republicans' tenuous authority in the Senate.
The GOP currently holds 52 seats in the Senate, while Democrats hold 48 and two independents caucus with the Democrats.
An upset win in the December 12 general election for Democrat and former U.S. Attorney Doug Jones, who won his party's primary in August, would be a significant gain for Democrats and make it even more difficult for Republicans to pass tightly contested legislation, such as on health care reform.
ABC News' John Verhovek contributed to this report.
Transcript for Trump faces health care loss, Puerto Rico backlash

Deep red state right now.
Let's bring in Jon Karl and John Avalon.
Let me begin Jon Karl with you.
The president tweeting he likes Roy Moore.
This is a double blow on the single day he loses that primary, also loses the battle over health care.
The president deleted several tweets where he was underlining his endorsement of string.
A double barrel loss.
One thing in common with both of these big defeats for president trump on the health care bill and in this Alabama primary in both cases he was following the lead of Republican senate leader Mitch Mcconnell.
He was going with the Republican establishment.
I think the lesson the president is going to take that's not going to happen anymore.
I look for him to be further divided from that Republican establishment on capital hill.
That's the lesson the president is going to take.
John Avalon you're liking to see more primary challenges to entrenched Republicans.
That's right.
Roy Moore was seen as extremely conservative on every issue.
This is going to cause more of a fissure.
We saw Bob corker decline to run for reelection.
This is a sign of things to come.
The point Jon makes that trump got pushed with Mcconnell and he's going to go with his base.
Alabama is a long shot for Democrats.
You can imagine they'll use Roy Moore in other races across the country.
Absolutely.
This is somebody who has been a pro vac tore, someone who has been a culture warrior.
The Democrats are putting forward a former federal prosecute.
He has an interesting record and helped reignite the Birmingham bombings.
Still a major road up him and the Democrats are going to be running against Roy Moore.
Meanwhile the president hoping to unify the Republican party by moving on to tax cuts.
Major speech in Indiana.
This is a tough road.
It's a very tough road ahead.
He's going to once again have to work with the Republican leadership.
George, I think on taxes you'll see a different approach from the president.
You're already seeing indications of this.
The president in a meeting at the white house yesterday made it clear he does not want to see tax cuts for the very wealthy.
He pointed to two of his top aides who helped craft this plan Steven mnuchin and Gary Cohen and said they will not be getting a tax cut.
When you look at the details will the wealthy be getting a tax cut one?
The corporate tax will be dropped dramatically.
Is it raised a little bit.
Do they try to offset it.
If it's going to be a tight between the senate plan and president that's going to be fascinating.
That's what they've done in the past.
George now to the historic decision in Saudi aye rab I

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump-backed candidate loses Alabama GOP primary

Now to the high stakes defeat in Alabama.
The candidate backed by trump losing.
Bright Bart featuring this home page.
Tom llamas is in Birmingham, Alabama with more.
Robin, good morning.
What's becoming the Bannon political machine taking a lap this morning.
They helped an ultra conservative candidate win last night and Roy Moore is on track to becoming the next U.S.
Senator from Alabama.
Reporter: Overnight Alabama Republicans sending a shock wave to the GOP and the white house.
Selecting former Alabama chief just dis-roy Moore over senator Luther strange who was backed by the president.
Don't let anybody in the press think because he supported my opponent that I do not support him.
Reporter: Moore who rode to the policies on his horse had a constellation of anti-establishment stars behind him including Sarah Palin, chuck Norris and the president's former chief strategist Steve Bannon.
The question was called in the state of Alabama.
The people are the money and Alabama answered today.
Reporter: A staunch conservative Moore thinks America has lost its basic source of moral.
He was twice removed from the bench including not removing a ten commandments monument and refusing to issue marriage licenses for same sex couples.
He also said homosexual conduct should be illegal.
I never prayed to win this campaign.
I've only played that god's will be done.
Reporter: Strange backed by mainstream Republicans like Mitch Mcconnell and the president himself, but it wasn't enough.
The political winds in the country right now are hard to navigate.
Referee: Even trump may have seen this coming.
While praising strange ahead of primary day he also said the endorsement could be a mistake.
By the way, both good men.
Both good men.
You know what -- I told Luther -- I have to say this if his opponent wins I'm going to be here campaigning like hell for him.
Now the winner Roy Moore takes on Democrat Doug Jones in an election in Alabama.
The last time a Democrat won a senator seat in Alabama was 1992.
George Shelby became a Republican and held the seat ever since.
Deep red state right now.
Let's bring in Jon Karl and John

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for DEA administrator to step down from his post

And acting head of the drug enforcement agency is leaving his job law enforcement sources tell the New York Times that Chuck Rosenberg had become disillusioned with president trump.
And was convinced the president had little respect for the law.
Rosenberg was a holdover from the a bomb administration the next head of the DEA will have to grapple with the country's growing old Buick crisis.
And we're learning new details about Tom crisis use of private jets.
Political reports that the health and human services secretary combined official.
And personal business on at least two occasions he visited a vacation island in Georgia where he owns property.
On another occasion he had lunch with his son in Nashville.
Those trips were reportedly among dozens of private flights that cost taxpayers about 300000.
Dollars.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for The Note: Alabama bucks the Republican establishment

--

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Roy Moore speaks after projected victory in Alabama GOP Senate primary runoff

Thank you.
Thank you.
Save up and live humans.
Ruling.
And why.
Young mother of ninety years old then.
I've got my Brothers.
My sisters.
Appreciate all the people.
On the night Solomon alone get my staff here just a moment.
If you will the people that work.
Thomas Malcolm live human.
Gibson.
You know there's so many people work knows that should be wrecked.
Calm fears is done on the I like this I felt this got to run but I didn't.
This is who rents they feed them a great job.
Cora Smyth chairman.
Don't have a chairman in this the best in Alabama.
Bill Armas them.
Bred dogs.
John walls.
Don't give my hand.
But you know there's.
Rick Thompson's here somewhere I don't know Regan.
My good friend dean young.
Mr. Brant frost the move dollars.
Dating.
And somewhere missed the Ford family would that's happened there they are right there give the Portland.
And I have mind.
Security man fifteen years to come back to visit made a slim holy Grail.
There's one you don't see up here.
It's that you.
We've done more for my cam plane.
Then anybody.
That's almighty god.
I want everybody to understand.
When I talk.
And I talk about god in this campaign.
I've never parade you win this campaign.
I'm only pray God's will be done because you can you some weigh in on your old it is not a good thing.
And sometimes you can lose and it's the best.
But do best thing we can do is pretty.
Hands of almighty.
And a strand with saying there there's nothing.
You're great for god for one day every valley shall be exalted.
And every mountain or hill should be made low.
And a cricket QB makes straight in the rough places plain and the glory of the lord shall be revealed and all flesh of heat together.
For them out the lord has spoken.
The warts that cry sure what channel I crime.
All flesh is grass.
Knowledge goodness there LB as the flower of the field.
The grass withers the flower faded because whispered war both on.
Surely the people is right.
The grass withers the club made the work of our god chose them for a you know.
Where put here on earth for a short.
If that short time our duty.
Is to serve almighty god.
And his knowledge elm and all that.
I've just been.
Talking to governors congratulate me.
I'm well do mr. strange use.
Direct.
In it you work with me.
Appellate accidentally.
And there mole and all.
Thinner proved.
And various others.
Are important in our government.
Together we hand make America great.
We can support the president.
Don't let anybody in the brass think that because he supported my moment that I do not support you know.
And support his agenda.
The long.
As its constitutional.
As long in advance our society our culture.
Our country.
I will be supporting.
As long it is constitutional.
But we'd have to return the knowledge of god and the constitution of the United States the United States congress.
There's.
I believe we can make America great but we must make America good and you cannot make America good without.
Knology this sovereign source of that goodness was Roberts also a law liberty and government.
Which is almighty god we have become a nation that is this to ourselves from the break and Washington's.
What it while the disposition that it would lead to political prosperity religion in route here in the war.
We've got to recognize.
That we've been sent right about something.
It support to Turkey's state doesn't stand for it doesn't separatist.
Nothing gets it right.
We are one nation under god and we can become one nation you apply.
There's so it could be in the north broad.
Demonstration.
Racial strike.
What were low creating the image of god I recall what.
Harry Truman's.
In his inaugural threat.
The American people stand firm in the play with our this snake in.
We believe that all.
People maybe in the image of god and from that they won't be move we've been there we can move back.
God can still bring it.
In line with worn meaning use code it.
And it.
I'm fought in the war then.
I've bought in the court it liberal judge.
And now like.
United States and a fight for the people of this day.
And this that you want to bring our country.
It's great and we and we will.
And thank you very much more.
This time for victory it's time to remember.
The struggles we've gone through it's also time to rededicate our lives.
God and to the constitution and you work country you're family let's go in and make America great thank you may god bless you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Luther Strange speaks after projected defeat in Alabama GOP Senate primary runoff

Well thank you are appropriate here thank you thank you thank you.
I just tonight to say thank you to each and everyone of you who are here tonight this is not the result that we want it.
I congratulate judge Moore I've already talked him on the phone lists about what's in the best we Republicans we care very much about this country care very much about the state.
And now we wish him the best going forward.
As he faces the next challenge you know what I'm favorite prayers.
That I really lean on.
Asked us to give thanks to god.
Selling us a task that teach us through allowed him alone.
The hard test things that are.
In the end of the day you have to rely on.
Something way more powerful than yourself you're navigating new orders you don't always understand and at the end of that boy humor and they can who could.
It's god that's.
That's the kind of prayer that really means something envoy.
And we set ourselves.
To a task in this race.
It absolutely was a task.
Lifetime revealing what the political environment and I've never had any experience what.
I worked in the nor serious.
Marshall ray and I for a meal we had some rough seas we have some safe and almost turned.
But I'm telling the city's political city's political winds in this country right now our Mary Hardin have their very hard to understand.
So it's been a tough deal could be any proud of the campaign that we Ryan ran you know I'm an old athlete basketball player we left everything out on the field.
There's nothing else virtually the court announced on the court we did everything we possibly can wouldn't change it at all.
There's a lot of winds blowing politically is us and thickest or cordless scorecard sort all that out a lot of agendas.
In this country on the leaders of the pundits to figure all that.
My focus has always been on Alabama.
People of our great stated really making a difference.
I'll take comfort in the words of president Teddy Roosevelt whose that is really not the pundits the critics' account it's via man in the arena.
And a man and woman of the women's in the arena.
There there was it really make the difference and I'm the continue to do everything I can to encourage.
Our citizens and especially our young folks to get involved in the ring that we have to.
Involved that's the future of our state.
So what I want to do is what I've always wanted to do without it said this about water laws.
I want to say thank you they say thank you every single person in this room.
Every single person I grew up.
Less than a mile from here and from coaches and teachers.
Are young life ministers and mentors and friends and best friends.
They showed me to do you I am to be back here.
A stone's throw up or allow it to elementary school to say thank you for your votes your prayers your encouragement.
Just the kindness along the trail in a very harsh.
And tough political environment I want to say thank you to each and every once you give yourself a hand really.
I want to say I want to say.
What I say thank you to the citizens of Alabama.
You know I've been very lucky cattle exports maybe that prepared for this you win some games loss of last segment.
Of one some last second play in overtime.
You'll back in locker room.
And you think what could have done different everybody tomorrow have an opinion about what passed which what flavors of the call whatever.
I'm not gonna lose any sleep tonight we did the right thing we do the right way.
I want to say.
However I want to say thank you commit.
Thank you the citizens of this not just friends and supporters view but it may bonuses since Tuesday.
That honor to serve for six years as attorney general.
During the most contentious times in recent state history where we had to clean up Montgomery where we had to get justice for the Gulf of Mexico and the biggest environmental disaster.
I was lucky have to serve in the United States senate at a time when we have a new president I'm looking good for conservative judges of the Supreme Court.
Time we could really is like a different so I've been blessed.
And I want to thank the citizens for giving me the highest honor I can possibly imagine.
All across the state if you're listening tonight I would just say thank you view a wanna say thank you to my campaign came.
There here they've worked there.
You know what's off and I want to thank him it's not for lack of a good campaign and all boils down to the person who was running take full responsibility.
Success entire outfit on his success.
When everyone either I want to take responsibility for that.
And I do that I want to thank my office staff.
In about it works are being watched if you raise your hands I know lots of them are here.
I wish you give them a hand.
They've.
They were.
They worked tirelessly for the citizens of Alabama and they do it because they love our state.
And they're gonna continue to do that for the remaining time that I am in the senate they are magnificent public service and I want to thank them.
Kevin turner my chief of staff.
These special recognition and a cancers somewhere our.
Kevin's that kind of sharp young person indeed to be successful authors started out as a drive me around and and a vehement cheapest AG in the senate and is not only been a great campaign.
Friend but also a great public servant and is given up a lot of opportunities view that serve the people of the state just want him to know how much I appreciate that.
What that pres the United States.
Thank.
The president took a chance he didn't have to come down I'm sure to be criticized for coming to campaign for bait.
That's what loyal friends do.
Sometimes more than politics sometimes developed as the friendship.
Just a common goal to make the country better.
And the bond when you come to Washington.
As a newcomer if you will and you sort of city officials got navigate.
I can explain why he was willing to take that risk except that he's a friend and a loyal friend in this this cause any trouble with not his fault.
The fault always lives in the and editor of the head coach.
The god told ball and that's my responsibility.
Or affect the vice president.
He came here last night.
He's very great conservative leader president of the senate.
A guy I've gotten in overtime.
The great conservative Christian person a great faith.
Driving to the rally last night media attended we got a chance to talk about what's really important.
And he said you know Luther really.
I'm glad to be your view that there are so many bigger things in world involved in the world.
And just one political campaign he drowned the volume list.
Are wonderful couple you know for first become.
We've all things went on the world.
And say that about and willing sectors that's the kind of person you want in the fog so America's lucky to have.
My penis is our fight fairy.
However I want to thank Richard Shelby.
I took its place is tall sky in the senate.
Set a record is tossed senate Richar was a friend for thirty years.
He commander's arm and I came to Washington has been a great mentor and supported me throughout this process.
And when things get.
It's always nice to have a guy Hugo log on the home state university thing like this.
And then politics for a long time and he had to say the other I've never seen anything like that.
No place in any thing like this or at that Jeff Sessions.
Jeff Sessions was my mentor when I came in the politics.
Jeff got me into politics.
He was a great attorney general I was glad to take its place to turn general fallen asleep.
He was a great senator for twenty years I was honored to take his place in the United States senate.
And ascendancy if he sits in now on the senate just going to be great attorney general for our country and I want to thank Jeff and Mary would be if that's your friends of ours.
Found on a thing about senate colleagues.
You know the senate is a magnificent institution in the short time and there.
I've been able to set reflect on the great debates have been held there think about the things that we are good on the scene kind of when you think about slavery.
Think about civil right and you think about voting wise we think about wars world wars.
It even though we're in a incredibly contentious.
Swirling passions.
It's nothing compared with some of the things about him in the United States and I'll tell you right now as someone's been privileged to sit there.
That it will be a magnificent place.
It has its problems people get very frustrated with no one more frustrated than.
But I promise you some problems facing our country will be solved there men's made there'll be lifelong friend.
What you have confidence in the institutions of this country.
Aside let's give a hand to the senate probably.
And finally finally those who forget this.
The most important thing that I consider knives how much I appreciate Melissa and and.
And kids put up with more than any one person should have to bear as you really learn what we're better words really mean.
But for 36 years it's been all for the better and one we could and I.
Seven next almost exactly I got to hold my second grandson and arms young James stranger came into the world.
And I'll tell you as we face this whirl win.
This unpredictable political environment to hold in my hands and look at.
The next generation and say well why what we've really do why put yourself.
While you really hear what the fight these wars it's for that generations for those beautiful young children come next.
After.
So let me leave you with this so I'll leave you with what I have on aside.
And I look at it every morning and ballistic if Republica together.
It's right there.
That's not favorite Bible verse and it's one that someone gave you and I came and the politics.
And it's proverbs nineteen when he won.
And it says been here the plants in a man's heart.
There's the lord's purpose that will prevail.
I truly believe that I think that the heart every day and I have no doubt of the truth.
Of that verse as I leave here tonight so let's say one more time.
Thank you thank you thank you each and every one of you in this room quote it's all about part.
God bless each and every one of you and did not back.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate special election GOP primary runoff in Alabama

We turn next to a political battle playing out right now in Alabama tonight.
Two larger than life characters competing to be the Republican candidate for senate.
Judge Roy Moore, picking out a gun at last night's rally.
He's been endorsed by Steve Bannon, but not the president.
The other candidate, 6'9" senator Luther strange, is the president's pick.
But did the president signal he is now having second thoughts about his choice?
ABC's chief national correspondent Tom llamas is there for us.
I believe in the second amendment.
Reporter: Flashing his gun on stage, and riding his horse to the polls, former Alabama chief justice Roy Moore is also a hero to the religious right.
Crime, corruption, immorality, abortion, sodomy, sexual perversion, sweep our land.
Reporter: Moore's top supporter in this senate primary, president trump's former chief strategist, Steve Bannon.
He's a courageous man, and most importantly, he's a righteous man.
Reporter: But the president is supporting Moore's opponent, senator Luther strange.
What would you tell trump supporters who are confused?
Who should they vote for?
I'm just an individual.
I would highly recommend that the folks support judge Moore.
Reporter: But the president says he's loyal to strange for helping him on health care, even calling him big Luther.
Met him once, I said, that is the tallest human being I've ever seen.
I'm tall.
Should be on the New York Knicks.
They could use him.
So, Luther, that's what I call him, big Luther.
Reporter: Strange making it clear he will be in lock step with the president.
He knows I've got his back.
Reporter: But the president acknowledges he may be backing the loser.
And I might have made a mistake.
And I'll be honest, I might have made a mistake.
So, Tom llamas with us from Alabama tonight.
President trump saying he might have made a mistake.
And he's made it clear that he'll campaign for whoever wins tonight?
Reporter: He has, David.
Many are predicting this is going to be a very tight race and the president knows that.
And he said if judge Moore does win, he will be back down here, quote, campaigning like hell for him.
David?
Tom llamas with us tonight.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate Republicans admit defeat on new health care bill

We turn next here to the newest effort to kill Obamacare.
It is dead on arrival.
There will be no vote.
Tonight, two rrm senators, Susan Collins and Lisa murkowski, on why they were not convinced.
And even after John McCain said he would vote no, support for him from the senator who helped write the bill.
Mare rip Bruce, back on the hill tonight.
Reporter: Tonight, Republicans are conceding defeat.
We've made the decision since we do.
't have the votes, we will postpone that vote.
Am I disappointed?
Absolutely.
Reporter: But for mom Samantha Mcgovern, who worried what this bill would mean for her daughter, Josephine, relief.
I'm much happier today than I was the last time I saw you.
Reporter: The fatal blow dealt by senator Susan Collins of Maine.
It was clear to me that the graham/cassidy bill was not the answer.
Reporter: Her objections to the bill?
The deep cuts to medicaid, and the concern millions would lose coverage.
Lisa more cow ski of Alaska who opposed the last attempt -- I said in January, we should not repeal without a replacement.
Reporter: Didn't like the process this go-round, saying the U.S. Senate cannot get the text of a bill on a Sunday night, then proceed to a vote just days later, with only one hearing.
John McCain, who took down the last GOP attempt with this defiant thumb's down, agreed, he wants a bipartisan process.
His best friend in the senate, Lindsey graham, who drafted the bill, had this to say.
John McCain can do whatever damn well he wants to.
He has that right.
Reporter: But tonight, he says they have to keep up the fight.
We'll get killed if we don't.
Reporter: You'll get killed if you don't?
We'll get killed.
Can you imagine, if we just don't fulfill this promise?
Mary Bruce with us live tonight from the capitol.
And now that this newest Republican bill is dead for now, Mary, Republicans will now need 60 votes instead of a simple majority.
That would mean both sides would have to come together on this.
Reporter: Exactly, David.
And word tonight, bipartisan ship is back.
Senators from both sides of the aisle are headed back to the negotiating table to trying to hammer out immediate steps to stabilize the markets and give Americans facing high premiums some relief.
David?
Bay partisan ship is back.
We heart you said it, Mary.
We'll keep tracking that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump defends his response to humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico

And we begin with what authorities are calling a humanitarian disaster in Puerto Rico.
More than 3 million American citizens live there.
And tonight, the president is asked, was he preoccupied with the NFL and his tweets?
The president tweeting 24 times about the NFL, but he did not tweet about Puerto Rico over the weekend.
Tonight, he's defending himself, and the white house releasing this photo of a meeting in the situation room, to signal they are doing all they can.
Tonight, the president plans to now visit Puerto Rico.
And ABC's senior white house correspondent Cecilia Vega leading us off.
Reporter: President trump in the rose garden today with a message for Puerto Rico.
We will get through this and we will get through it together.
Reporter: And the ground, total devastation.
Nearly the entire island still without power.
More than half of it without water.
But many say, until now, his the president's public response has been subdued.
Overnight, in a series of tweets, president trump emphasized Puerto Rico's massive debt, saying it ols "Billions of dollars to Wall Street and the banks, which sadly, must be dealt with."
Among those who called him out, the mayor of San Juan, who said, "You don't put debt above people, you put people above debt."
New York congresswoman Nydia Velazquez going even further.
This is going to turn to be Mr. Trump's Katrina.
Reporter: And today, we put the question to the president.
Is Puerto Rico getting all the help it needs from you, Mr. President?
Puerto Rico is very important to me, and Puerto Rico, the people are fantastic people.
I grew up in New York, so I know many people from Puerto Rico.
I know many Puerto ricans.
Reporter: The president highlighting the praise he's received.
It's the most difficult job, because it's on an island in the middle of the ocean.
It's out in the ocean.
You can't just drive your trucks there from other states.
And the governor said, we are doing a great job.
Reporter: While brushing off questions about whether he's been preoccupied by his battle with the NFL.
Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
Reporter: And today, the white house released these photos to show it.
The president in the situation room, being briefed on Puerto Rico.
So, let's get to Cecilia Vega, live at the white house tonight.
And Cecilia, the president announcing he will now travel to Puerto Rico?
Reporter: He says had will go there on Tuesday, but also headed to Puerto Rico, the U.S. Navy ship comfort.
It's a medical ship with as many as 1,200 active duty and reeveryone is on it.
It will take about a week before it arrives.
A week.
Cecilia Vega, thank you.
Our correspondent in Puerto Rico tonight, asking the mayor

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Can politics and sports be separated?
Hi everyone I'm on the host uncomfortable this is a very.
Special at the sound of uncomfortable it's been really outside of our regular programming schedule.
Because of the big conversation we're having as a country right now about politics and sports about race.
And free speech and we needed to address that break here which is why we're having this conversation today.
And I'm really pleased to say that joining us from Los Angeles for this conversation.
Is my friend and colleague LT grander than healthy thanks so much for being here.
Of course bucolic from running well content stating that I'm playing it back to you next time I leave you a message echoed retired.
And the and you are inherently.
Eagle.
Uniquely qualified to talk about a lot of this stuff because these are thinking that reported on for a very long time and an inner section that not a lot of journalists have.
And let's just started off by setting the scene right.
The president whenever he speaks or tweets can fat off.
And national debate and on Friday night in Alabama he weighed in on the tour to be occasional protests that have been going on on the sidelines of an account names.
Sparked of course by calling cabernet can meals during pregame the national an them.
And president trump says wouldn't you love to see one of those and FL players when somebody gets respects our flag.
To say get that SOB off the field right.
At the when you heard that when you learned about those statements.
What did you think did you think that it would spark a reaction.
I did.
Because child has proven to be quite the lightning rod particularly when you look at the timing of when he has he's sort of moments right.
Like Thursday night.
We're talking about whether or not to repeal pretty affordable care corrective action ports are our.
Friday alters rally in Alabama says these inflammatory remarks and now we're not part of our health care anymore.
Or at least not nearly the same sort of be replaced that we were part of comments.
He's done this time and time of day and broke his campaign and as well as president so I wasn't surprised necessary to see these are war.
I was a little bit surprised to see owners respond as quickly.
As they did to it but I guess when the president United States suggest you start watching and a spell that hurts the pocketbook and that's what businessman.
Billionaires get involved and in fact the states are being reduced the president's remarks but in general works in our what's next privacy to public it.
Up in arms about woody sweeter when he says because of good par for the course particularly when we're close to a really big important policy scars.
She think just to be do you think this of the distraction.
To get away from some of the policy discussion keeping that's why he started talking about it.
You know it's hard to determine never interviewed.
Trump corporate or anything like that but from Arafat would keep in and have talked to people.
Who have been quotes the president.
It's scenes is when Everett there is real tents are controversial policies being discussed.
He does does he does one of these tweets that throws it hard national conversation.
Off that particular topic.
And I don't know if he's doing his current dispute not I just know the byproduct of these tweets and to be the discussion moved away from policy that you were superficial things.
I will say you know regardless of the intention behind it the conversation that has followed in the dates and had been among the people kind of been having in private circles and behind closed doors are here in there eyes and social media.
But not at its level not on the national stage this way.
And you mentioned the president following up their remarks with some tweets one of the things.
He tweed Ed got to the heart of the matter and I think put into very explicit terms what a lot of people think which is that the issue of kneeling.
Has nothing to do with the race this is what president trump treated its about respect for our country flag and national in them.
And the NFL.
Must respect that and healthy this to something that's a fundamental disconnect.
About the origin of the protests.
Which is to say that you know people think that sometimes whatever your feelings about.
Injustice in this country inequality in this country.
That sports is not the place for it like you should respect the flag and respect the aunt them regardless what do you make up.
You know first and foremost a constant currencies as we always have to look at the source and the source of this conservationists want.
This is someone.
Who took out full page ad in various newspapers in New York back in the 80s about Central Park bars.
Suggested it they'd be killed basically be harmed be put to doubt.
We're supposedly raped and some warrant we find out through DNA.
Evidence.
That they were not involved.
Not by you know a technicality not by some rent compression DNA evidence right that's science.
Says that not involved.
And he refuses to acknowledge.
The reality.
Because he wants to it was there are hybrid that approved for example well because as you were saying.
There is his narrative ended and there is reality.
And the reality is that this protest started with players wanting to bring attention to racial inequality.
Police brutality.
A criminal justice reform.
Now in his world.
Their protests in the National Anthem in the flag in for a lot of people they do feel that way but that's because I believe the media has done it port jobs.
Of making sure there will be told this story we didn't characterize it that way but we've gotten a bit lax we've gotten lazy.
We don't short hair dark basements they have to protest what we're not protesters beat amp.
In many protests during the anthem we're actually a protestor are these large divide issues that are partners nation for centuries.
You could talk to the president and come explicitly with the protests about.
Go to the administration try to find solutions to these issues.
But that doesn't Britain took an heir to pretty warrants.
He wants to near Tibet these orders are protectant anthem because it helped beats its base it gives them more fuel in allows them through with that he's got some sort of level of approval.
Are people aboard the government's office.
Althea Hayes Meredith and it's also the narrative of a lot of people are they wanted to be the narrative.
That you know when you show up to play professional sports.
That's your job and you you do your job there's no place for politics there right secretary ammunition even said something similar to the U you can pro Catherine that they you have the right to free speech.
But you should do it on your own time.
In fact this separation.
Of politics since sport especially need days is that even possible.
In it's a really curious as to what example of protests.
That happened during a convenient car.
If if you give me five with convenient time which is to protest.
Are we're really love to know exactly what that pride.
It is at noon or by day's only you know.
Did they don't want you protests on the streets gonna what you protest on the sidelines of what partnered.
They don't want you to talk about certain issues when you're dealing with their weapons hurricanes that summer climate change now was not the time.
It worked hard gun controls are surely up the mass shooting now is not the time.
There's always does not it's not the time it's not appropriate you know why is because of inconvenient.
It's as an inconvenience and guess what that is part of the purpose of it protests is to shake things up as a convenience you because you're in.
Your and sort of like auto pilot boat comes amid redeem right you needed something to stop you can make you think about some.
So I'm sorry if you're building that somebody nearly these sideline if he convenience that you somehow but.
A protest in and of itself is not supposed to make you feel good it's supposed to be culpable.
It's supposed to make you give particle what are you doing and I hope he spoke reconnaissance and Mike that.
Let's not be inflicted if artists or lazy and look at a perfect time to protest because it doesn't exist.
Now the it strikes me that before the president weighed in on it.
There were still occasional protests going on obviously Colin happening with diligently sticking buy.
His stance on this occasionally other players would join him here and there.
But we we're not talking about it on nearly the level that we are now it kind of forced.
Every one to reckon with this conversation it sparked more protests in reaction to those protests are hash tag with taking me.
An office park if you mentioned earlier.
The owner's involvement.
And on Monday night game Allen and asking about that the Arizona Cardinals and the Dallas Cowboys to the cowboys all kicking me together right wind.
The owner Jerry Jones and and they all stood in linked arms during the national and then the cardinal I think it stood arm in arm.
Altogether.
And it strafing out there were in this kind of weird space where the conversations going on before they decide to come out if you keep blight is an acceptable form.
Protest slash sign of solidarity.
How did we not alienate people but still send a message to some degree what do you make about that in some of those conversations people are clearly having.
That's things Kate was relieved trustees for a couple of reasons you know first and foremost the demonstration that the cowboys had.
With prior to the flag be right.
Yet the fans and Arizona chose to boot the Dallas Cowboys in their demonstrates.
What exactly were they going.
Because if you are upset that people are being respectful to implement want to flag.
Well they're demonstration happened before they have with beings on report of rivals presents a what were you Bo.
The question only those people who were born can answer I have my theories.
But I don't want to speak for those people they need to process that themselves.
Number two what exactly worked out of cowboys demonstrating or protests in the dance.
When all protests against Richmond equality.
From a justice reform please brutality where the protests remarks the president trial.
Because one.
Has to do with what color cap and it started and other have to do with your pocketbook.
And I want I want really hope.
That the Dallas Cowboys in the man who decided to take in these are right.
Were protests he.
Racial inequality there were protests are pleased brutality and not protests in the remarks which president trop.
Because they were fearful that it may impact their bottom line because of our with the motivation.
Vintage or Spielberg was disingenuous to opportunistic bourse opened a complete show of unity solidarity.
You know the unit yet when you look at the B and found just as a league to this is the other thing that struck me as we're seeing this planet and we did see in other places to an end NBA players and and others as well not even athletes and other people just taking a stand in and sending a message on social media with their own taking me.
Photos and videos but acted to specifically with the NFL when it's highlighted means that the conversation is taking place.
On top of turning inherent imbalance already talked about the owners having to get involved in the player if you talk about league in which the vast majority of the players are black.
And which the owners are heavily majority are white I'm watcher all our.
So and N many of them donated millions of dollars to trop.
And his campaign in twenty sixteenths other this kind of imbalance that's at underpinning of this entire conversation hat.
What is the reason why I'm very curious that's what was the voter bases.
Hi Jerry Jones wanted to participated demonstration as well as the statements of the individual franchises in the league as a whole because as you mentioned.
Many of these owners many of these men contributed and wanted to see Donald Trump and office it is not exhibited no exact what they were voting for he was very very clear.
In his entire life in from the camera.
What kind of person he was and what his thoughts were.
I don't beginning with blind sided sororities.
After so we're confident and escalated start calling rapists and Colin Baxter rate recipients at that you shouldn't blind sided we have further comments that he it would be NFL players.
Armed.
I'm really curious did as to what's gonna happen.
Once arch rock terms of attention to some other conversations.
And debates read about the younger wrestlers and house an awful show assortment I don't know.
And auto service up Warner's social you know and a soap opera community about what he's there was offensive and people were taken at tears but it would be or wherever it is for soap operas.
Why aren't in opponents going to do when the spotlight is not one bill.
Is this protest RD demonstrates are all these statements about unity about the real issue at hand.
What specifically about the president turn his attention towards this man from Kosovo we'd be to rebuke this because we don't want to hurt our pocketbooks.
Here's the honest wouldn't.
That remains yhency.
And now complaining because there's there's some nuances here to read it's not all black or why aid or 01 side person the other here there are players obviously this is not a unanimous stand.
Among the entire league owners or the players there players who have spoken out about their own dissidents on about their own confusion.
Ben Roethlisberger whose team remained I think mostly in the locker room.
Carrying the national an them later came out to issue a statement saying you regret at that that he.
He didn't want to send the wrong message I think he later said that I wish we had approached this differently.
We didn't want to appear divided on the sideline with some standing and some kneeling or sitting.
And it strikes me that what the conversation happened the conversation now with that.
Expect she on the sidelines for courtside or wherever.
You're forced to make a decision you're forced to take a stand either you're going to me ill or sick to board.
Have you or form of protest that you feel is appropriate.
Or you're going to stand and remain with the status quell an it's.
I can hiker caught them.
Of that competition we're adding everything the country what are you on the front lines of fighting something or are you remaining with the status quo.
You know was pleased about what Ben Roethlisberger.
And the conference other athletes have sort of expressed in the cars so there's.
This protest.
Is that they don't want to visit to disrespect.
And it it is curious because the protest.
Started because there was a disrespect the large.
And a black lives matter movement didn't start.
Because there was a quality equipment justices and started because of equality.
And equipment.
Started because there were people who were losing their lives innocent people were people who should have been killed.
A by officers and it believes if there was no justice but for the family and friends afterwards because it civilized it matter if they're produced respect for their lives.
And so this notion that the right it's been just respected.
I could certainly have a conversation.
By conversation mark question to Ben Roethlisberger and other happens.
What it is what about the disrespect for human life because if you really going to be conflict were upset about something I would think scenic innocent man.
Be gunned down in heavy evidence planted on you know.
By officers would you'll highly disrespectful to what this country's stance for.
Are what do about it you're so conflicted about this that you with Steve something like that you begin to use her own has tegra you speak out against that.
Or your own.
And if you didn't why do you do it.
Are you upset because of two hours after being caught out for which he didn't do in the past as much of which are doing in the present.
Are you putting uncomfortable because you're beginning to realize that all that inequalities happen that you didn't care.
Because it affected directly and argue Buena Park directly by decision that you really don't want to make.
These are brooding deep conversations and it's probably the marked people's youth aspects to the sports because they don't want to have these currencies.
But this is the flip side to that I'll be right which is that those seeing people who say stick to sports.
People like Ben Roethlisberger may be I don't speak for and the people who.
Feel as if this was imposed on me I don't this is not the place for me to take that standard and make my mind.
Position known because.
I am here to perform professional duty and this is what I signed up to do I want to stay in my lane.
It is that there is it fair to have that decision imposed on them in this way.
As his parents and arises.
Is it fair to require Madonna was gunned down in the end our prisons lightest and try to attack on the BBC video of just the opposite.
Is it fair that tape around our neighbor Martin's mother still walks from the pain of her son not being there.
I mean we can go on and on about what's fair not fair and I told again being put on a spark.
You know it's someone who.
As a member of LG BT community I know there's nothing more fearful for many men and women in my community Debian has street on argue gay straight or trash standards.
It's unfair it's uncalled for no one wants to be forced to say something like that about themselves.
But in the end immersed in the pains of being beer.
Is it fair but he African American community.
For centuries now.
Have been talking about police brutality and criminal justice and billions of there is racial in equality.
And having time and time again a lot of lip service but not all models.
Real metrics are so there's been a significant change if you look at the 1960s social economic metrics you look at the matches are today.
Not a great deal was changed is that fear.
So this brings us back to with a man that really first sparked this conversation.
Calling Cafferty right in August when he sixteen during the PCs and he first fat during the nationally and emulator started to cake and me.
During the national and found his hope as he expressed it briefly back then must shine a light.
On racial injustice racial inequality that so pervasive in our country today.
And to this day.
He remains unsigned.
And there have been a lot speculation about why that is I think John Maher has come out and basically said.
He's divisive since besides the fact that he's may be more qualified and all the metrics the quarterbacks are they are hard judge Don east actually sells merchant the popular player.
So this is the question moving fourth hour if the players won't remove politics.
From the game well the people who control the game.
Just keep them out it.
You know comic characters unique situation because he had a contract he opted out of it became a free eight.
If he was on contract and he got cut.
That's a different conversation that will be happy right but essentially he opted to become unemployed assuming it's fuels that would have made him higher.
And we've discovered that owners are big powers and summons and be right article critical.
You mentioned Ben Roethlisberger.
Interesting division to Baltimore Ravens.
Talked about bringing him there.
And they claim that you know we had his conversation.
And we think he may be a good fit when national record about forest.
Have been eventually win they sign a guy who had never thrown in a bill passed before.
What sense does that make cut a cabinet with the starting quarterback and Super Bowl less than five years ago.
And you needed backup quarterback he's sign someone who never played in the NFL.
Don't tell me this before policies.
This decision about PR and what you perceive to be back ours.
Baltimore is unique situation because certain points a multitude of players through.
We're into their boat you know Ray Lewis being one who was under investigation for possibly involved the murder.
Which are welcome him back.
Com so so you so you you know you you had Ray Rice goes on to roster.
Who was accused of domestic violence and eventually you've used it to do the right thing in terms of punishing him but of first you have to you own his side.
There's someone who parts has been yachts in knocked around the elevator.
He will win it's welcome him back.
So here you have calling cabinet someone whom didn't committee.
Bach Klein wasn't pleased that are accused of committing any crime.
With actually peacefully protest and to himself for a couple of weeks before reporter asked a question.
Develops and now he's someone that you quote unquote need prayer for and it's when a group of fans talk about whether he went welcome back to vote.
It's so hypocritical in it's so ridiculous it is so nonsensical.
The reality is that you don't really right it's a card receipts and he's trying to hat is not the protest.
It's the conversation.
You don't want to have a conversation barbarous and quality because that takes a lot of work.
You don't really want to be in custody and I did that but left before write about it start Palestinians college heparin is an NFL pro football reasons.
So Al Zain next weekend.
Are now we still talking about that says it's still a thing about how players come out whether they stand whether they stand for that they link arms.
It is the conversation that actually keeps up moving forward.
Well one.
If we're still talking about whose protests missiles not then we're not doing our jobs because the dead.
We're supposed to talk about what their protest.
Not give you never with the visual of the protests.
And in two.
It depends on what.
Happens here you know one day you know mr. trump may decide it's read something that's offensive in the casino resort or something totally different.
And that's reality of it is that.
We had to gratitude towards new sparkly shiny object and that's where it hurts and our focus and what we were discussing prior since upon the background.
Remember what we're all angry about transgender is being banned from the military.
Little tart but that at all anymore right.
Why because he tweeted something else.
And so to answer your question I don't know regrets about this next weekend because I don't know what's going to be tweeted.
What I do know is that if we are talking about NFL players in protest than what we're not doing this and respect to what started as a protest against racial inequality because that's what is all about.
It's about making service of peer environment for every one.
That if you answered the criminal justice system but should be treated equally regardless of your race that's what is currencies is supposed to be.
While the I hope you and I can talk about this again and I think you for making the time today it's always good to talk to you my friend.
Absolutely as always.
Thanks to all of you for listening as well and I'm on in about.
Thank you for listening to uncomfortable.
If you like what we're doing take a minute believe that the rating and a quick review it helps others define these conversations.
And we really just wanna hear a traffic.
Plus we've made it easy just click on the link in the description of this app says.
If you have an idea for a show topic glory yet pleaded in the reviews or tweet apple apple about to stop and that's.
And aid WA.
DI FDA and quarry used to hash tag uncomfortable talk.
Uncomfortable with the production of ABC news new episode vote every 2 weeks on Tuesday morning.
I'm on in the pot thanks for listening.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate cancels vote on GOP health care bill

Hi everyone on the bots here with continuing coverage of president trumps.
Press conference there in the Rose Garden with the prime minister of Spain when a jump right in with some breaking news headlines we can bring you now.
Let's go live now to Washington DC my colleague reclining ABC's political director and Michael of being at joining us from there and over activists and it.
We've got Serena Marshall with us as well at Rick a let me go to you first on something we've just learned now we know the Republicans multi year effort.
To repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act Elson and is Obama care is over.
For now so what's next.
Well that the bill is dead but this army will not die and it will be new attempts to resuscitate this is part of the the next budget resolution could push forward the deadline but this was inevitable given where the votes were we saw secession of Republican senators come out say they oppose it.
This is strike three but it's not baseball they could get worse trying to get themselves another rat bat.
And I think we we haven't seen the end of it yet but for now for the foreseeable future yup this is going to be tax reform.
Republicans now hold that will be there being legislative victory maybe the only legislative victory for the year now that health care decided yet once again.
Serena give me your take on this now what exactly happened here in these last few days we knew they had three senators.
The voting no we thought they might bring it to a vote anyway just to get on the record with at it and some way.
If there actually a path forward that what happened behind the scenes.
They don't want to bring it to a vote if that Bo is going to be another resounding no and yesterday they were dealt their final blows senators Susan Collins.
Coming out against the bill again paint he couldn't get behind it because it is being cut to Medicaid.
And with those three senators.
Firm knows they just didn't have the votes and it would just be another embarrassment for the Republican Party to take up a repeal and replace office.
You have repeal and replace bill doable on the senate floor and to see that no once again and now they're saying they're gonna come back to it Lindsey Graham just moments ago saint.
We'll come back like Rick that after taxes.
But whether or not that'll actually happen is the question what we can't expect the likely in the short term.
Is that bipartisan effort to be revived.
That could come back here in the senate they needed something to get.
Exchanges under control to get the premiums down in the meantime tomorrow is the deadline for the health care companies the insurance companies.
To come now and decide.
It they're going to be part of the exchanges.
For the next year knowing that this latest circular plate effort is dead could convince some of those insurance companies come back to the table when it comes in the Affordable Care Act and is public exchanges.
House Republicans and Democrats.
Worked together moving forward could be a big difference in whether or not actually be revived again in the coming weeks will Republicans.
He this thick of the Obama care of the affordable.
Affordable Care Act exchanges.
Worked out.
Sure those up.
Been able they want to take that sign and possibly in another run and failure and stay on top hat in the months ahead in the meantime I want it back to another set of questions the president.
Based there in the Rose Garden play a little bit of sound for you in case you missed it the president was asked.
About some criticism he thinks about his late response.
Two people in Puerto Rico now a humanitarian disaster by many accounts after they've been ravaged by a few hurricanes there and expanding its time tweeting.
About the and it balance through protests on the sidelines there take a listen to what the president had to say just moments ago.
Well I wasn't preoccupied with the NFL I was a shame Devoe was taking place because.
To me that was a very important moment I don't think you can disrespect our country our flag our National Anthem.
And to me the NFL situations are very important situation I've heard that before.
About was I preoccupied not at all not at all have plenty of time in my Angela do is work.
And to be honest with you that's an important function of work and it's called respect for our country.
Many people have died.
Many many people many people are so horribly injured.
I was at Walter Reed hospital.
Recently and I saw so many great young people's.
And then missing legs in the missing arms and they've been so badly injured.
And there were fighting for a country they were fighting for a flag they were fighting for our National Anthem.
And for people to disrespect that.
Body kneeling during the playing of our National Anthem I think is disgraceful.
Rick Klein a pretty you on this first now there's a fundamental disconnect here in the way the president seems to be talking about this.
About those rights of those military veterans he's talking about are fighting to protect which should include right.
The crate our players and free speech to be able to protest where they see fed.
A couple of disconnect here on I think that's a big one.
I think he would the other one is in him saying this isn't about race when we know.
I just based on the statements from the players who have engaged in these protests than it's explicitly about racial injustices.
Balances in policing.
I criminal justice so I feel like the president it's right on this issue I think that was a telling comment there talking about how he's got funniest.
That he's always working.
He thought this out.
This did not seek him out president a lot of issues on his that this money he try to find and try to exploit its continued.
To try to hit as hard as he put it plays well to work to his political base I think the way he's appropriated this as an issue for himself.
It puts anyone who's potentially in any players on the other side of the American flag which is now the protesters intended.
And as an uncomfortable position for lots of people I think you've got a part of one of the disconnect here what the president is saying what art.
I'm Mike Levine you know you can weigh in on this too there's president was the only one.
Weighing in on free speech today you cover of court the Department of Justice for as attorney general Jack fashions.
Had he previously scheduled speech today at Georgetown on free speech how to back out.
Yet just two hours before the president's event the C is that this afternoon.
The attorney general as.
The sort short distance away at Georgetown law school which he said that free speech is under attack.
And he said that colleges and universities across the country were created to be a sort of.
A conversation of different ideas in and where opposing views are shared but that they've become an echo chamber that was his phrase.
An echo chamber of political correctness.
And that they're being filled wit.
Which.
With fragile egos he said.
Of course just his remarks come an interest in time because in the middle of the senate fell debate his basic message was.
That opposing views need to be heard and they should be relegated to certain areas.
But of course again and that's the NFL.
They break I feel like there's an Alanis Morissette theme song here that about.
Rain on your wedding day or not for your acting you've already pay.
I mean look at these are two members of the state administration had at the government and his handpicked attorney general who seem to be delivering very different messages here.
Yeah I I think that's exactly.
That's exactly right it's important time for our generals that you at this war.
But I think it's telling you saw without irony in this case it's right wing voices mark he's the press.
Is calling essentially for less re.
Expression he's talking about conservatives might be offended but at the lack of respect for the flag so.
Where you stand in his what you say it once again with this administration I think the White House in identifying this is a priority I think its rate a lot of concerns about what the role of government is.
And the attorney general asked about this is as might as Mike knows and I tried to square or circle that's not quite there Rite Aid if your if your general sessions in your being asked about this.
Free speech works forever water works for not one.
Well yeah he said the attorney general sensitivity actually condemn us with NFL players he said that they should have done it he noted that they have lots of assets and that.
They should find other ways of expressing themselves in some of taking in the UV and.
And he any made a point of saying the person and it applies to the president as well so he's allowed to say what he what he wants to say even though now the administration is saying what there should be a limit the free expression.
Of the players and.
Feel a thing I proposing to meet again if have a rule where players aren't allowed to nail that three and actually get your take on this that a heart all of that.
The reason the question with asked in the first place was because.
Of the president's response to folks in Puerto Rico millions of whom are now without power facing increasingly scarce supplies of drinking water.
And food what did you make of the president's response there.
All we actually heard from the president for the first time real remarks on Puerto Rico all of this that was being going on over the weekend all of the NFL taught in.
Health care talked Puerto Rico wasn't at the top of that lists in fact over the weekend.
He didn't tweet about Porter redo it took him until Monday to actually even comment on Twitter about what was happening.
And that comes had been governor of Puerto Rico is Boehner the humanitarian crisis here isn't going to be catastrophic.
Unseen mass exodus to the mainly in.
It the government doesn't step up.
And do more to help the people of Puerto Rico and the Franken that these are American citizens so hearing from the president today commenting about the administration's response.
The big deal we also learned today that the president needs to go there but he's not gonna go there for two weeks after from when the hurricane first hit and that's different and we've seen from this administration when it comes to responding to hurricanes on the we signed goats to Harvey and Texas twice.
The first time within two to three days the storm was still hitting parts of taxes at the time.
Florida he went there within.
Four days after the hurricane hey.
The the worst part of it hitting the keys and it taking in two weeks to go to Puerto Rico's you can see why these people are questioning whether the administration is really coming.
To the defense of those American citizens and joining us live now on the phone from the Rose Garden is ABC's John Karl who is there.
With president trunk of the prime minister of Spain and John Allen asking about the other big story that came out of that the president.
Really doubling down on the military threat against North Korea saying that he is totally prepared.
To do what is whatever is necessary when it comes to addressing those threats.
Yet this came in response to a question about the words of deep prime the foreign minister.
North Koreans who sedated.
Trump's words amount to a declaration of war against his can't country.
And made that threat to that North Korea's now with its rights to start shooting down US military planes even international airspace.
Seoul.
The president was asked about that and Ben and absolutely no toning down all of the rhetoric of the hard liners he's taken.
Against North Korea he called you it and he'd refer to the military.
Option implying there's also a diplomatic.
Option.
But pledged that he is fully prepared to take that military option if he is forced to.
John let me ask you another question about something else he was asked about there are keeping get a finer point on this two bit.
There's a sort of disconnect here from the white house on the one hand you have attorney general Jeff Sessions saying that free speech.
Is under attack in America on the other hand it the president saying that NFL players should not be allowed to protest.
In the way that they see fit.
Are we think any kind of clarification from the white house on.
The first walking you mash and Jeff Sessions here Jeff Sessions news.
Then the odd man out in the president's cabinet ever since he recused himself from the Russia.
You know investigation somebody you the president we know had asked for a letter of resignation.
And then chose not to excepted.
But who's somebody who is made clear that he is furious with the and this does this attorney general on a previously scheduled speech Krista go out and speak.
On free speech just as the president has launched this attack on NFL players.
Exercising what many see as their fundamental get a first amendment rights.
During the during these pre games.
The National Anthem immediately it's really an extraordinary position for the attorneys general to be and the one thing I can tell you.
Is that the attorney general.
Did that this speech was scheduled before the president decided decided to go into this attack on the on the NFL players that what he called you know SOB is.
Who who protest during the National Anthem.
You know but very you have quite a bit of unfortunate timing from the attorney general the attorney general speech of course was supposed to highlight.
The issue which is a legitimate issue to annihilate of a free speech on on college campuses and you know speakers that has spanned have been silenced have been hounded out.
Because of their of their views.
But you know I mean what what an uncomfortable position from the hit Turkey general Libyan and of course.
He didn't get around to mentioning the NFL controversy in his remarks of course them.
Don't cry you can mark the day that you got to use SNB and I live stream Murray here think I politely apparently Obama's.
Headed out I mean to the president to be clear did not use the you know did the deed the the that the board didn't say as a B actually said the actual work but I I don't know we have a family flood stricken.
You know it's going to be trying to be tested.
Keep it PG thank you John are.
Karl on that from the white out that Rick Klein and I ask you about something out then something we talked about a little earlier this habit of a proxy war going on in Alabama this is something the president has weighed in on.
A Republican primary run off.
Between the man who assumes the seat left behind by attorney general.
Jeff section is all these circles are coming together now what can you tell me about the stated that special election and what that's about president trump.
If his candidate has it.
Pull fruit.
This is trump vs trumpets and the president himself may not be able to tame the forces that brought into office that would be the lesson if judge Roy Moore.
One of the most colorful and controversial figures to ever come close to the sanity.
Were to win the Republican primary a run off tonight against his preferred candidate president's preferred candidate.
Senator Luther strange he was appointed to fill B Jeff Sessions he's actually under somewhat controversial circumstances and Alabama and he's become associated with the establishment.
You know he's only been in office for about six months now.
It would be a stunning setback for president that's very popular places like Alabama.
And the twist on this one is that Steve Bannon was in the state last night campaigning against president fox even a vice president pence the other side estate.
In any for that person so you're seeing.
The entire base of president puppet war with itself over this senate seat is an extraordinary set of circumstances.
I don't is likely to be replicated anytime soon but I do think it.
It has big implications for governing this year because Roy Moore is not someone's now goal long to get along with Mitch McConnell and Republican agenda.
And big implications for the primary season next year because it's going to embolden a whole raft of of would be trump supporters to run for office that they feel like making it happens that grassroots energy.
Even without getting the endorsement of the president's out.
According to paying special attention to some of the special elections this year we'll have continuing coverage here.
Thanks to all of you Rick Klein Mike Levine and Serena Marshall for joining us now.
And thanks to you for watching as well if you wanna keep up with the latest sign Alabama special election had hampered abcnews.com.
Anytime that story.
And any others or download ABC news that get all the breaking news updates right here found for now I'm on the spot and feedback Houston.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman: Transgender troops should continue to serve

Do you agree.
That are thousands of openly serving transgender men and women have served their country with honor and valor.
Addition RS which is probably saying that I believe any individual who mes to physical and mental standards.
And as were what deplorable.
In his currently serving should be afforded the opportunity continue to serve.
Thank you if reappoint it can you promise currently serving transgender individuals who have followed department policy and meet ever apartment as you just.
Asked of them that they will not be separated from arm Serbs is based solely on their gender identity.
Sir I can promise that that will be my advice what I would've just articulated as divisive provided in private and then just provided in public thank you.
And have you had the opportunity to meet with any of the thousands of transgender individuals currently serving in uniform on active duty.
To hear how the recent developments that impact of their lives and if not you commit doing so.
I have not since the since additional August when he announced it was made but but I would certainly Buena center.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
President Trump will unveil his administration's tax reform plan today in a speech in Indianapolis, Indiana.
He's expected to announce tax cuts on businesses and individuals.
The plan would slash the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, lower the top individual tax rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent, repeal the estate tax, double the size of standard deductions for married couples and individuals and expand child tax credits, according to people familiar with the plan.
Trump has repeatedly stated that he wants a 15 percent corporate tax rate.
House Speaker Paul Ryan has argued for a 22.5 percent rate.
The plan is expected to include a tax cut for the country's highest earners, despite Trump's pledge that it would not benefit the wealthiest Americans.
The administration, however, has said that the House and Senate committees crafting the legislation could choose to add another tax bracket above the 35 percent rate if necessary.
The president is expected to say that his plan will restore a competitive advantage for U.S. businesses and create more jobs and higher wages for American workers.
Administration officials say the new framework will make the tax code simple, fair and easier to understand.
Any changes should benefit loyal, hardworking Americans and their families, according to Trump.
The president, who previewed his plan Tuesday with bipartisan members of the House Ways and Means Committee, said his plan is based on four principles: making the tax code simple and fair, cutting taxes tremendously for the middle class, lowering the tax rate for businesses and bringing back trillions of dollars in wealth parked overseas.
The White House is now looking for a legislative win after Republican leaders said Tuesday they would no longer hold a vote on their Obamacare replacement plan.
Three members of the Senate said they wouldnt approve the measure, effectively killing the bill.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., one of the sponsors of the legislation, vowed to return to health care after tax reform.
Special counsel Robert Mueller will interview current and former White House staffers in the coming days as part of his investigation into potential collusion between the Trump administration and Russia, according to multiple sources with knowledge of the investigation.
Earlier this month, sources told ABC News Mueller had informed the White House of six current and former aides he wanted to interview.
The list of six includes former White House press secretary Sean Spicer, who reportedly has hired a lawyer; former Chief of Staff Reince Priebus; White House counsel Don McGahn; White House spokesman Josh Raffel; senior associate counsel James Burnham; and longtime Trump aide and communications director Hope Hicks.
Mueller also wants to talk to top aides who helped draft the initial statement Donald Trump Jr. gave in response to his June 2016 meeting with a Russian lawyer.
Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law and a senior adviser, and former campaign chair Paul Manafort also attended the meeting.
Mueller was appointed last May by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to lead an investigation into Russian election interference and potential ties to the Trump campaign.
Mueller's team of investigators have already interviewed Rosenstein over the summer, according to a source familiar with the matter.
ABC News' Katherine Faulders contributed to this report.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn: Rent controls are needed in Britain

Jeremy Corbyn has said Labour now stands "on the threshold of power" because its policies are "what most people in our country actually want".
"We are now the political mainstream," he told Labour members in his 75-minute speech at their party conference.
In what at times had the air of a victory rally, the Labour leader said they were a "government-in-waiting".
He promised rent controls, attacked "forced gentrification" and said only Labour could unite the UK after Brexit.
The Labour leader - who was greeted by a chorus of the football terrace-style chant of "Oh Jeremy Corbyn" as he made his way to the podium - lavished praise on party activists who he said had "stopped the Tories in their tracks" at the general election.
He mocked the hostile coverage of his campaign, saying attacks by newspapers like the Daily Mail had actually helped his party's polling.
"Never have so many trees died in vain," he said.
Mr Corbyn said the "centre ground" in British politics had shifted from where it was "20 or 30 years ago" and his Labour Party now stood for the things most people "actually want", even if a "still broader consensus" was needed for the party to win power.
In his third keynote conference speech as party leader - Mr Corbyn also:

Said only Labour could unite EU Leave and Remain voters

Promised to "repair the damage done by austerity "

Said his principles come from his parents and the North London community he lives in

Urged Theresa May to call another snap election: "Take another walking holiday and make another impetuous decision."
Condemned the "intolerable" abuse aimed at Diane Abbott - and sang Happy Birthday to the shadow home secretary from the stage

Highlighting Labour's pledge to curb rents in the private sector, Mr Corbyn said young people's housing costs were three times those of their grandparents.
"Rent controls exist in many cities across the world.
And I want our cities to have those powers too and tenants to have those protections."
He added: "Regeneration is a much abused word.
Too often what it really means is forced gentrification and social cleansing, as private developers move in and tenants and leaseholders are moved out."
A Labour government would require any redevelopment of a housing estate to be backed by a council ballot of residents, he said.
And anyone living there would be able to get a home on the same site on the same terms.
He described the Grenfell Tower fire as "an entirely avoidable human disaster," with the ruined tower standing as a "chilling" monument to privatisation and "yawning inequality".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn: Labour must be "government-ready"

On Brexit, Mr Corbyn pointed the finger at divisions in Tory ranks, saying the Conservatives are "more interested in posturing for personal advantage than in getting the best deal for Britain".
"Never has the national interest been so ill-served on such a vital issue.
If there were no other reason for the Tories to go, their self-interested Brexit bungling would be reason enough," he said.
"So I have a simple message to the cabinet: for Britain's sake pull yourself together or make way."
He backed Theresa May's call for a two-year transition period after Britain leaves the EU in March 2019 but claimed Labour was the only party that could "unite everyone in our country around a progressive vision of what our country could be" after Brexit.
Labour would push for "unimpeded access to the single market" and fight to protect jobs and wages, while rejecting immigration targets, he told delegates.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In full: Jeremy Corbyn's 75 minute speech

He said the "the capitalist system still faces a crisis of legitimacy" after 2008's financial crash and the time had now come for a new economic model, with a bigger role for the public sector, renationalised utilities and more investment in infrastructure and skills.
For much of his tenure, Mr Corbyn has faced heavy criticism from many of his MPs, including a no-confidence vote and a leadership challenge - but after the party's election gains he said this week had showed his party was now united and "ready" to take power.
Mr Corbyn spent the summer touring marginal seats, and Labour aides said the party was currently selecting candidates in 76 Labour-Tory marginals, who would be in place by the end of the year.
Responding to his speech for the Conservatives, First Secretary of State Damian Green said: "Jeremy Corbyn's speech summed up the problem with Labour: lots of big promises, but no explanation of how they would deliver them."
Lib Dem leader Sir Vince Cable said Mr Corbyn's speech had "once again confirmed he is one of Brexit's biggest cheerleaders".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption About 1,000 jobs in Belfast are linked to the C-Series

Boeing's trade dispute with Bombardier "could jeopardise" its defence contracts with the UK government, the UK's defence secretary has warned.
Sir Michael Fallon made the comments after the US opted to impose a tax on the C-Series jet made by Bombardier.
The proposed 220% import tariff could threaten Bombardier jobs in Belfast.
Rival Boeing had complained that Bombardier had received unfair state subsidies from the UK and Canada.
It claimed these subsidies helped the firm win a major order.
In 2016, Boeing won a contract to supply 50 Apache helicopters to the Army.
Bombardier said it would fight the "absurd" ruling.
The firm is one of Northern Ireland's biggest employers.
Sir Michael said during a visit to Belfast that "Boeing stands to gain from British defence spending" but that "this kind of behaviour could jeopardise our future relationship" with the firm.
"We don't want to do that.
Boeing is an important investor in the United Kingdom; an important employer in the United Kingdom.
"But we would prefer this kind of dispute to be settled on a negotiated basis and we will be redoubling our efforts with the Canadian government to bring about a negotiated settlement."
Image caption Theresa May said she was bitterly disappointed by the US ruling

Prime Minster Theresa May said she was "bitterly disappointed" over the US Department of Commerce proposal to impose the tax.
She said the UK would work with Bombardier to protect "vital" jobs.
The UK government and trade unions fear the imposition of tariffs could make the Canadian firm question whether to remain in Northern Ireland, where it employs 4,100 of its 28,000-strong workforce.
Image caption The proposed tariff could threaten jobs at Bombardier in Belfast

The ruling damaged the global aerospace industry and was "frankly not what we would expect of a long-term partner to the UK", said a UK government spokesman, while emphasising this was just the first step in a lengthy process.
About 1,000 jobs are linked to the C-Series, the wings of which are made at a purpose-built 520m factory at Queen's Island in Belfast.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Boeing said the dispute was about "maintaining a level playing field"

The programme is not just important to Bombardier jobs in Belfast, but also to 15 smaller aerospace firms in Northern Ireland - and dozens more across the UK - which make components for the wings.
The US Department of Commerce ruling, which could triple the cost of a C-Series aircraft sold into the United States, could potentially jeopardise a major order placed last year from US airline Delta - a $5.6bn (4.15bn) deal for up to 125 of the jets.
Bombardier said the decision was "divorced from the reality about the financing of multibillion-dollar aircraft programmes".
The Canadian firm said Boeing was seeking to use US trade laws "to stifle competition".
'Things could get worse'

Julian O'Neill, Northern Ireland Business Correspondent

The outcome was predicted - but not the severity of the penalty.
The tariff could triple the cost of C-Series aircraft in the US, effectively killing the market for Bombardier.
It also puts a major order with Delta Airlines at risk - and things could get worse before they get better.
Washington's Department of Commerce is due to make a second tariff ruling on 5 October.
But a more important date is next February when the US International Trade Commission will either uphold the penalty or remove it.
This was always the focus for Bombardier and its allies.
Bombardier said it had created a "superior aircraft" that is more efficient and comfortable but Boeing was trying to prevent "US passengers from realising these benefits, irrespective of the harm that it would cause to the US aerospace industry and the cost to airlines and consumers".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sir Jeffrey Donaldson tells Today that Bombardier tariff may have 'devastating' economic consequences

But Boeing said the dispute was about "maintaining a level playing field", and said its aim was to make sure that "aerospace companies abide by trade agreements".
Delta, however, said there was no risk to US businesses as neither Boeing nor any other US firm produced 100-110 seat aircraft to compete with the C-Series.
US Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross said one reason for the tariff ruling was Bombardier's failure to cooperate with the investigation.
Skip Twitter post 2 by @Number10gov The Government will continue to work with the company to protect vital jobs for Northern Ireland.
2/2  UK Prime Minister (@Number10gov) September 27, 2017 Report

"The evidence we have to rely on is evidence not coming from Bombardier but evidence being proposed by Boeing and other outside parties," he said.
The US government was "not necessarily" targeting Bombardier's Northern Ireland factory, he said, but added: "If you're building wings for a plane that doesn't get built, that's a problem."
Government funding

Analysts say that the ruling will increase tensions between the US government and Canada and the UK, both countries have deals to supply military aircraft worth billions of dollars with Boeing.
The UK government and Northern Ireland Executive pledged to invest almost 135m in the establishment of the C-Series manufacturing site.
The programme received 750m from Quebec's provincial government in 2015 when its fortunes appeared to be ailing.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Critics say Boeing's complaints are unfounded as it does not make 100-110 seat aircrafts with which the C-Series would compete

On Wednesday, Quebec Premier Philippe Couillard called the tariffs "unfair" and an attack on the Canadian province where Bombardier has its headquarters and employs more than 17,000 people.
"Quebec has been attacked.
And Quebec will resist," he told journalists, adding that that Quebec remained committed to manufacturing the C-Series.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau threatened to cancel a Boeing order from the US

"Boeing may have won the battle but the war is far from over," he said.
In 2016, Quebec invested US$1bn in the passenger jet.
Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has threatened to cancel the purchase of 18 Boeing Super Hornet jet fighters from the US in retaliation.
Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said on Tuesday that the government was disappointed in the decision.
The International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers - a machinists union - called the countervailing duty "a protectionist and dangerous measure for the stability of the aerospace industry".
In Northern Ireland, CBI director Angela McGowan said the ruling put an important driver of Northern Ireland's economic growth at risk.
Northern Ireland has effectively been without a devolved government for nine months, and Ms McGowan said the situation reinforced the need for a return of a power-sharing executive.
"With jobs and future prosperity in the region being put at risk by decisions made far away from Belfast, we need a devolved government that can speak up for and champion the needs of the local workers and businesses most affected," she said.
Image copyright AFP

The UK has a vital role to play in making the "moral case" for global free trade as it leaves the EU, a trio of cabinet ministers have said.
Liam Fox, Boris Johnson and Priti Patel argued open markets are the best vehicle for reducing poverty and aiding prosperity at an event in London.
Free of the "constraints" of the EU, the UK must be an "agitator" for free trade, the foreign secretary said.
Meanwhile an ex-Tory leader has warned the UK must prepare for no Brexit deal.
Critics say failure to do a Brexit deal could result in new trade barriers but Iain Duncan Smith said the EU must agree to open trade discussions by December or the UK should make arrangements to leave without a deal.
Accusing the EU of "arrogant behaviour... bordering on the deliberately offensive", he said the UK must "throw resources" at a no deal scenario, arguing the UK's reach in terms of trade was second to none.
As talks on the terms of the UK's withdrawal from the EU continue in Brussels, European Council president Donald Tusk said on Tuesday that he believed not enough progress has been made to move to the next phase of negotiations, including trade and the UK's future relationship with the bloc.
Ministers have said discussions on future UK-EU relations should begin as soon as possible and there are "no excuses" for the current logjam to continue after Prime Minister Theresa May gave assurances on financial contributions and the rights of EU citizens in the UK in her Florence speech last week.
Speaking on Tuesday during a visit to Slovakia, Mr Johnson said "it was time to talk about the future".
At the launch of a new think tank on Wednesday, Mr Johnson, alongside International Trade Secretary Liam Fox and International Development Secretary Priti Patel, stressed the importance of the UK seizing opportunities to forge independent trading arrangements with growing economies around the world.
"Free trade is not only the key to economic success, but also serves as a force for peace and progress in every sense, giving millions more people the chance to lift themselves out of poverty," the foreign secretary said..

"We must ensure that Global Britain breaks free of the constraints of the EU and becomes the world's leading proselytiser and agitator for free trade."
His comments come amid a growing transatlantic trade dispute following the US government's threat to impose a 220% tariff on imports of the C-Series jet, parts of which are made in Northern Ireland by Canadian firm Bombardier.
Defence Secretary Sir Michael Fallon warned the dispute "could jeopardise" the UK's defence contracts with US firm Boeing, a rival to Bombardier.
Image copyright Getty Images

Ministers should tighten the UK's official climate change target - or face the courts, the government's former chief scientist has said.
Prof Sir David King is supporting a legal case forcing ministers to shrink carbon emissions to zero by 2050.
He says the current government goal - an 80% emissions cut by the same date - is too weak to protect the climate.
Ministers have promised more ambitious climate policies in their forthcoming and long-delayed Clean Growth plan.
But Prof King told BBC News the government knew the 80% target cut behind that plan was too weak.
Some 18 months ago, Environment Secretary Andrea Leadsom promised a 100% emissions reduction to keep the UK on track with its obligations under the 2015 Paris climate deal.
But ministers have failed to enshrine that 100% cut within the Climate Change Act.
Potential catastrophe

"This is crazy," Prof King told the BBC.
"The government knows very well what needs to be done - but it isn't doing it.
"If it takes legal action to force ministers to behave properly, then so be it - I'll support it."
Prof King is backing a preliminary legal action by a tiny group, Plan B, run by former government lawyer Tim Crosland.
It argues that Business Secretary Greg Clark is obliged under the act to tighten targets if the science shows it is needed.
This is the basis of the case.
Mr Crosland has written to Mr Clark and says if there is no satisfactory reply after 14 days, he will take the case to the High Court for judicial review.
"The science has clearly hardened since the Climate Change Act was agreed," he said.
"If scientists are telling us our current course of emissions potentially takes us to catastrophe, then to stick to the current course is irrational.
"The best available science tells us the risks of crossing tipping points rise very sharply between 1.5 and 2C.
And that means the UK cutting emissions to zero."
Counter-productive?
His case would be argued in court by Jonathan Crow, Attorney General to Prince Charles, and a former senior Treasury lawyer.
Mr Crosland says his co-claimants are a rabbi "who learned not to ignore a humanitarian crisis"; young people fearing for the future; and a supporter from Mauritius representing island states at risk from rising sea water.
Other groups are similarly frustrated with long delays in the government's climate strategy, and some are also considering legal action.
There are fears, though, that pushing for a zero emissions strategy when the government cannot yet reach its lower target may be counter-productive.
ClientEarth, one of the UK's most successful environment groups over the past decade, has pioneered the use of the courts to deliver environmental policies.
Jonathan Church, a climate lawyer with the group, said: "We hope that Plan B's claim will help draw attention to the urgency of the challenge we face and ensure that our government keeps its eye on the goals agreed in Paris.
"But targets do not on their own reduce emissions."
He added that the focus now should be ensuring that the Climate Change Act fulfils its purpose.
The government said it would consider Plan B's letter and respond in due course, adding: "The UK is a global leader on climate change".
A spokesperson said the forthcoming Clean Growth plan, which will outline how reduce emissions will be reduced, would be "ambitious and robust... and build on the economic opportunities across the country".
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright PA Image caption Emma Dent Coad was elected MP for Kensington in June

A Labour MP who claimed Prince Harry cannot fly a helicopter has defended her comments.
Emma Dent Coad, who reportedly made the remarks at a Labour fringe event, said she was told "it's an absolute fact", but added that she could not prove it.
The MP for Kensington - which includes Kensington Palace - told the BBC taxpayers should not fund the monarchy.
Prince Harry qualified as an Apache helicopter commander in 2013.
The Labour Party has declined to comment.
The MP, who was elected in June, told the BBC's Daily Politics: "Somebody else will tell me whether or not that's true but I've been told that's an absolute fact that somebody sits beside him and drives the helicopters for him."
John Woodcock, former chairman of Labour's backbench defence committee, issued a statement saying the "highly inaccurate comments" did not reflect the views of his party.
He said the prince deserved "praise and respect" for his service in the armed forces.
"I am really sorry this happened," he added.
Image copyright PA

Kensington Palace has not commented.
Shadow education secretary Angela Rayner said she was more interested in the contribution the Royal Family makes to the UK.
"We have different views in the Labour Party... but I actually think Prince William and Prince Harry have made the royal family more trendy again.
I think there is a role for them - they're part of the staple British diet," she told the BBC.
Prince Harry served in the Army for 10 years, undertaking two tours of Afghanistan.
Harry is currently in Toronto for the Invictus Games - the sporting tournament for injured service personnel that he founded in 2014.
Defence minister Tobias Ellwood invited Ms Dent Coad to go the games, adding: "Learn how it started... and who inspires our injured heroes".
'Archaic system'

In an interview with the BBC, Ms Dent Coad questioned why the UK - as a modern democracy - was "buying into this archaic system".
"The immediate issue is why we are paying an absolute fortune in tax to people who are already very comfortably off for them to do charity work - which they do excellently - but half of north Kensington is doing charity work for nothing," she said.
Asked whether she called the Royal Family "ridiculous", she said: "I think my point was that the system is ridiculous.
"I don't know them, I'm sure they're perfectly decent human beings.
My point is why are we paying taxes for that - and I did ask, would they get the job if they applied for the job?"
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Unite boss suggested enemies of Mr Corbyn were behind the claims

Labour does not have a problem with anti-Semitism, Len McCluskey has said, suggesting those who believe it does are seeking to undermine Jeremy Corbyn.
The Unite leader told the BBC that he had never heard anti-Semitic language at any party meeting he had attended.
Claims the leadership was condoning anti-Semitism, racism and misogyny were designed to "bring Jeremy Corbyn down".
His comments came shortly after members voted to back new rules to tackle claims of anti-Semitism in the party.
The Jewish Labour Movement (JLM) is demanding action over what it says was the use of an "anti-Semitic trope" in the conference hall at Brighton.
It is calling for "zero tolerance" of such comments at the event.
Asked whether he recognised suggestions that Labour still had a problem with anti-Semitism, Mr McCluskey said any attacks on Jewish people would get "short shrift" at any meeting he attended.
"No, I've never recognised that.
I believe it was mood music that was created by people who were trying to undermine Jeremy Corbyn," he told BBC Newsnight.
"In 47 years of membership in the Labour Party I've never been at a meeting where there was any anti-Semitic language."
Asked why it had become an issue of growing concern within the party, he added: "Unfortunately at the time there were lots of people playing games, everybody wanted to create this image that Jeremy Corbyn's leadership had become misogynist, had become racist, had become anti-Semitic and it was wrong."
'Festering'

Earlier on Tuesday, Labour members voted to back a tightening of the party's rules against "racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia or otherwise racist language, sentiments, stereotypes or actions, sexual harassment, bullying or any form of intimidation towards another person".
During the debate, Labour peer Lord Dubs claimed Mr Corbyn's initial slowness to act against anti-Semitism had allowed it to "fester" in the party.
The peer, who escaped the Nazis on a Kindertransport from Prague in 1939 at the age of six, said the Labour leader was now dealing with it.
The Board of Deputies of British Jews welcomed Labour's rule change.
Its chief executive, former Labour MP Gillian Merron, said the need for robust action was "particularly important after the ugly scenes we have witnessed during this conference".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ken Loach on 'false' anti-Semitism claims by Labour MPs

But some delegates have suggested the new rule amounted to an attempt to police "thought crime".
Naomi Wimborne-Idrissi, of the Free Speech on Israel group, said she was concerned that it made reference to the "holding of beliefs" as opposed to expressing them.
She told delegates the Jewish Labour Movement would have "a bit more credibility" if it "didn't spend so much of its time running to the Daily Mail and Daily Telegraph with stories".
At a fringe event later on Tuesday, JLM chair Jeremy Newmark said her remarks - which were applauded by some in the hall - accusing Jews of colluding with the right-wing media amounted to anti-Semitism.
He said he expected the conference arrangements committee to "take action against that delegate who levelled an anti-Semitic trope against our vice chair (Mike Katz) on conference floor", as part of a commitment to creating "an atmosphere of zero tolerance of anti-Semitism" at the event.
Warren Morgan, Labour leader of Brighton and Hove City Council, has written to the party's general secretary, Iain McNicol, demanding "reassurances that there will be no repeat of the behaviour and actions we have seen this week before any further bookings from the party are taken".
'Principled stand'

Gideon Falter, chairman of the campaign Against Antisemitism praised Mr Morgan's "principled stand" after reports "from Jewish delegates that they feel uncomfortable being Jewish at the conference".
Brighton and Hove Labour Party is currently suspended by the national Labour Party, following a separate row.
Labour's deputy leader Tom Watson has reportedly promised to launch an investigation into how it gave a platform at a conference fringe event to a speaker who said people should be allowed to question if the Holocaust happened.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Labour leadership waves to delegates at the end of the third day of Labour's conference

Film maker Ken Loach has, meanwhile, told the BBC's Daily Politics he had been attending Labour meetings for 50 years and had "never in that whole time heard a single anti-Semitic word or a racist word".
He added: "It is funny that these stories only appeared when Jeremy Corbyn became leader isn't it?"
The director, who recently rejoined the Labour fold after supporting rival left-wing parties, said such reports had arisen because Mr Corbyn "has been a long-time supporter of the Palestinians and the injustice that has been done to them".
Asked about Labour MPs who have raised concerns about anti-Semitism, he said: "I think their aim is to destabilise Jeremy's leadership".
Image copyright EPA

European Council president Donald Tusk has said not enough progress has been made to move to the next phase of Brexit talks in Brussels.
He said Theresa May's "realistic" speech on Friday showed the UK's "philosophy of having a cake and eating it is finally coming to an end".
But he said "there is not sufficient progress yet".
Mrs May had hoped her offer of a two-year transition period after Brexit would unblock talks in Brussels.
Emerging from Downing Street after talks with Mrs May, Mr Tusk said: "I feel cautiously optimistic about the constructive and more realistic tone in the prime minister's speech in Florence and of our discussion today.
"This shows that the philosophy of having a cake and eating it, is finally at an end.
At least I hope so.
That's good news.
"But of course no-one will ever tell me that Brexit is a good thing because as I have always said, in fact, Brexit is only about damage control.
"And I didn't change my opinion.
I feel now we will discuss our future relations with the UK once there is so-called sufficient progress.
"The two sides are working and we will work hard at it.
But if you ask me and if today member states ask me, I would say there is no sufficient progress yet.
But we will work on it."
His words come a month before the European Council will decide whether sufficient progress has been made to begin trade talks, as the UK wants.
Analysis

Image copyright Reuters

By BBC political correspondent Chris Mason, in Downing Street

Hesitant, understated, but with a very clear message.
In fact, so quietly spoken those of us listening here, crouched beneath the cameras, a metre from his shoes, could barely hear his words.
Two pieces of imagery have been frequently leaned on in updates on the Brexit negotiations.
The EU has a love of noisy timepieces; all those references to ticking clocks.
And the desire of some in the UK to have our cake and eat it crops up quite a bit too.
Mr Tusk's "hope" that the references to gorging on confectionery are over stood out.
But so too did his blunt assessment that more has to be achieved before the talks move on to the future relationship.
So, for the prime minister, did her Florence speech do the business?
From her perspective, it looks like it has worked a bit, but not yet enough.
The council says it first wants more detail on citizen's rights, a financial settlement and the Irish border before turning to the kind of trade deal the UK will have with the EU after it leaves.
Brexit Secretary David Davis, who is taking part in the fourth round of Brexit talks in Brussels, said that Mrs May had shown "leadership and flexibility" in her Florence speech and given reassurances on financial issues.
There were "no excuses for standing in the way of progress", he insisted.
But the EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier called for a "moment of clarity" from the UK.
Image copyright AFP

Speaking in Brussels, Mr Barnier said he was "keen and eager" for the UK to translate the "constructive" sentiments in Mrs May's speech into firm negotiating positions on issues such as citizens' rights, the Irish border and financial issues, including the UK's so-called divorce bill.
Remarking that it had been six months since the UK triggered Article 50, he said progress on these three fronts was essential to allow talks to move on to the future of the bilateral trade relationship, as the UK would like.
"We are six months into the process," he said.
"We are getting closer to the UK's withdrawal.
I think this moment should be a moment of clarity."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Phillippe Lamberts: "Sometimes I think this might be the factor that derails the Brexit negotiations even more than money"

Speaking ahead of her meeting with Mr Tusk, Mrs May said that "by being creative" the UK and the EU can maintain cooperation and partnership when the UK leaves the EU.
And she said that "things have moved on" in terms of the discussions and negotiations in the Brexit talks.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn's interview with Laura Kuenssberg

Jeremy Corbyn says Labour has united around his "different" economic strategy and promised "more details" on the party's flagship policies.
Speaking to the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg, he defended the need for more borrowing to fund his spending priorities.
He said he wanted all PFI contracts in public hands, likening them to "buying a house on a credit card".
"There's a pretty good mood around," he said, adding that he was ready for another general election at any time.
Mr Corbyn also said shadow chancellor John McDonnell was "right to look at all these scenarios" after he suggested that there needed to be planning in case there was a run on the pound if Labour went into government.
Mr McDonnell, a key ally of Mr Corbyn's, said the party was preparing detailed plans for government in the event of it winning an election called at short notice, including "war-game-type scenario-planning" for events such as "a run on the pound".
In the interview, the Labour leader said if he became prime minister he would hope to take all PFI-funded public sector projects back into public ownership.
While many of the schools built through private finance over the past 25 years were "wonderful buildings", he said they were "paying through the nose for it".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mishal Husain questions Jon Ashworth on when exactly he changed his mind on PFI

"It's like buying a house on a credit card," he said.
"It's not a sensible way of doing things...
I want to see public buildings developed and run by the public and funded by the traditional form of public investment and borrowing which is actually cheaper, more secure and more efficient than PFI contracts."
Speaking on Monday, Mr McDonnell said "wasteful" PFI contracts could cost the public purse 200bn over the coming decades while yielding "enormous profits" for the private sector.
He pledged to end this "scandal" by "bringing them in-house".
But shadow health secretary Jon Ashworth has since suggested many of these contracts could be renegotiated rather than bought out.
'Love not fear'

Asked if there were mixed messages from senior figures on the issue, Mr Corbyn said this was a "fair point" adding that council-owned companies had already bought out some PFI deals.
"I have no problem with that.
Jon is quite right.
Be slightly cautious on some of the health PFIs," he said.
There has been a buoyant mood at party conference this year after Labour defied expectations to gain 30 seats and wipe out the Conservatives' majority in June's general election.
Image copyright EPA Image caption The shadow cabinet gathered on stage with Jeremy Corbyn in a show of unity

For much of his tenure, Mr Corbyn has faced heavy criticism from his MPs, including a no-confidence vote and a leadership challenge - but he said the party was now "pretty united".
Asked if he had won the argument inside Labour, he said: "I was proud to stand and pleased to be elected - yes, there was a challenge but that's a year ago, let's pass that by - and I've put forward an economic strategy.
"We've put forward an economic strategy which is different and the party actually...is pretty united around the basic principles.
There's a pretty good feeling and mood around."
Deputy leader Tom Watson has said he was wrong to doubt Mr Corbyn, and paid tribute to the leader in his speech in Brighton, singing his name from the stage and referring to him as "our next prime minister".
Recalling hearing the Jeremy Corbyn chant for the first time at Glastonbury, Mr Watson said: "As they sang, I realised it's actually better to be loved than to be feared.
And Jeremy has shown us that it's possible."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: We have to scenario-plan so people know we're ready

Jeremy Corbyn says it is "right to look at all these scenarios" after his shadow chancellor suggested that there could be a run on the pound if Labour went into government.
John McDonnell said Labour was doing "war-game-type scenario-planning" for events such as "a run on the pound".
He made the comments at a fringe event at the Labour conference.
A party spokesman said the preparations were for events that could occur under any government.
Labour gained 30 seats in June's general election, helping deprive the Conservatives of a majority, and the party says it is preparing for another snap poll.
Mr Corbyn backed Mr McDonnell in an interview with BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg, telling her that his colleague was "making the point that you've got to look at all these things and all these scenarios".
"John is right to look at all these scenarios because if we're going to move into government we need to know what we're going to do but also look at all the scenarios we might face," he said.
Mr McDonnell had suggested a "radical" Labour government determined to do things differently would face a range of challenges and was seeking to "answer the question about what happens when, or if, they come for us".
Asked about the "they" his colleague was referring to, Mr Corbyn said he thought Mr McDonnell was "talking about the people John doesn't like", before adding: "I think he's looking back again to the experience of the past Labour governments."
Labour governments during the 1960s and 1970s came under financial pressure in the markets, leading them to devalue the pound, by lowering the exchange rate, on more than one occasion.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jeremy Corbyn: Got to look at all scenarios

A run on the pound refers to a situation in which international investors and market speculators sell sterling and sell sterling assets en masse, forcing its value down.
It last occurred in September 1992 when, on a day known as Black Wednesday, the falling value of sterling forced the then Conservative government to pull out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism after its attempts to support the currency failed.
Mr Corbyn claimed there had "effectively" been a run on the pound since the Leave vote in the 2016 Brexit referendum, a result which led to a sharp drop in the value of sterling the next day - the pound has remained more than 10% below its pre-referendum levels.
'Detailed work'

Labour's last election manifesto contained pledges to bring rail and water companies and Royal Mail back into public ownership as well as a number of other large spending commitments - to be funded by borrowing and higher taxes on business and the better-off.
Speaking on Monday, Mr McDonnell said a future Labour administration would not be "traditional" and "people want to know we're ready, and they want to know we've got a response to anything that could happen".
Labour, he argued, must "scenario-plan" for all kinds of potential challenges it might face in government "bringing the relevant expertise together at every level to talk through what happens if there is such and such a reaction".
"What if there is a run on the pound?
What happens if there is this concept of capital flight?
I don't think there will be, but you never know.
"We've got to start work now how exactly are we going to manage these industries when we take them back into public ownership?
And let's start doing the detailed work now.
Let's start doing the consultations with consumers or passengers or whoever and also with local authorities and local councils or whoever."
A Labour spokesman said: "This was an exercise not done by us but by members.
The scenarios were to deal with numerous events such as national disasters and acts of terror that could occur under any government."
Speaking at the same conference fringe event as Mr McDonnell, former broadcaster Paul Mason warned the first six months of a Corbyn government would be "like Stalingrad", with attacks from the establishment.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In full: Laura Kuenssberg interviews Jeremy Corbyn

Mark Serwotka, of the PCS union representing civil servants, said Labour would face "huge" opposition if it won power, predicting that "all the usual arms of the ruling class will be brought to bear".
This included using financial markets to bring "economic pressures" including "the flight of capital" and trying to destabilise the economy, he said at a fringe event organised by the Corbyn-supporting Momentum group.
He also said Labour would have to resist pressure from senior civil servants, "Sir Humphreys", who wanted to preserve the status quo.
"We have got to be prepared," he said.
But the Conservatives said Labour's nationalisation plans, as well as its intention to buy out PFI contracts for the running of schools, hospitals and other public services, would result in "a collapse in business investment and a crash in the value of the pound".
"Labour's plans would go too far, and ordinary working people will end up footing the bill," Chancellor Philip Hammond said.
And the Lib Dems said it was Labour's support for Brexit which risked an "economic collapse".
Image copyright PA

Labour has said it would force bookmakers to pay a compulsory levy to help treat problem gamblers.
Deputy leader Tom Watson said the cash would be used for treatment to end the "destructive cycle of addiction".
Speaking at the party conference in Brighton, he urged gambling firms to "stop targeting vulnerable people and start acting properly".
The Association of British Bookmakers said it wouldn't oppose an "appropriate levy" to help treat gambling addicts.
Labour has vowed to tackle Britain's "hidden epidemic of gambling addiction", and earlier this month proposed a ban on adverts for betting firms on football shirts.
Mr Watson returned to the theme in his speech to delegates on Tuesday, saying some companies are "deliberately targeting our poorest communities even as hundreds of thousands of lives are ruined by addiction".
"Gambling addiction is an illness and it's about time it was taken seriously," he said.
He announced a review which will also examine the ability of the NHS to offer mental health services to gambling addicts.
'Working together'

A 2015 report by the Gambling Commission estimated the number of "problem gamblers" to be between 300,000 to 430,000 people.
It defined this as "gambling to a degree that compromises, disrupts or damages family, personal or recreational pursuits".
Currently, gambling companies make voluntary contributions to the charity GambleAware to help pay for education, research, and treating gambling addiction.
But Labour will consider replacing this with a compulsory system.
The Association of British Bookmakers said it backed an "evidence-based approach to helping problem gambling in the UK and would support Mr Watson's idea of a review, if it facilitated this".
A spokesman added: "We also would not oppose an appropriate, compulsory levy on the gambling industry to fund problem gambling treatment, as we have long argued that the gambling industry needs to work together to reduce the number of problem gamblers and address the fact that most problem gamblers move between different forms of gambling."
Also on day three of Labour's conference in Brighton, shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth called for a 500m winter bailout for the NHS.
Labour say the extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care.
The party has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and says a winter bailout could be paid for through this.
The government said it has "robust plans in place" for winter which are supported by "an extra 100m for A&E departments and 2bn funding for the social care system".
Have you had issues with gambling?
What help has been available to you?
Share your experiences with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright PA

Labour says it would spend 10m to end "period poverty" in schools in England if it forms the next government.
Earlier this year, a charity, Freedom4Girls, reported that girls in the UK were missing school because they could not afford sanitary protection.
Shadow education secretary Angela Rayner told its conference this was a "scandal" and every child would get the support they needed under Labour.
Scotland is piloting offering free sanitary products to women and girls.
Ms Rayner told delegates in Brighton that action was needed on the issue in England too.
"As well as giving our schools the resources they need, we must ensure they give every child the support they deserve.
All our pupils deserve a good quality of life.
So I am proud to say that as your secretary of state I will allocate 10m from our departmental budget to end the scandal of period poverty in our schools," she said.
Last year MPs backed the abolition of the "tampon tax", an EU-wide 5% VAT levy on sanitary products, after the government accepted a Labour amendment to the Budget.
This followed public pressure and a petition signed by 300,000 people.
In its election manifesto, the Green Party promised free sanitary products for pupils and women on low incomes.
The Conservative government has said it will look at the issue.
Image copyright PA

Labour is calling on the government to spend an extra 500m on a winter bailout fund for the NHS in England.
Shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said the cash was needed to increase capacity in struggling hospitals and pay for extra staff.
He also said it was Labour's "ambition" to return NHS funding increases to the same level as during the 1997-2010 Labour governments.
The Department for Health says it has "robust" plans in place for the winter.
And it will pump "an extra 100m for [accident and emergency] departments and 2bn funding for the social care system" to get it through the cold season.
But Mr Ashworth said: "We've had no clear explanation from [Health Secretary] Jeremy Hunt and [Prime Minister] Theresa May about how the NHS will be prepared this winter.
"We are hearing that we could have a serious flu outbreak this winter.
"So if the government have robust plans, we need them to come forward."
Extra money is needed to boost the capacity of hospitals, allow the NHS to hire extra non-agency staff and improve the transfer of patients to social care, Mr Ashworth said in a speech to the party's conference in Brighton later.
He told delegates the prime minister must not stick her "head in the sand" because a "collapse" on the same scale as last year's winter crisis would lead to thousands of people waiting longer for A&E treatment.
Labour has pledged to boost spending on the NHS through a 5% hike in income tax for the highest earners and changes to corporation tax.
Mr Ashworth told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the 7bn extra promised for the NHS in Labour's general election manifesto was a "substantial investment".
But he said it fell short of what was needed in the long-term, which was a return to the increases seen during the last Labour governments.
"We should be giving the NHS 4% a year, and I want us to work towards getting back to that 4% increase," he told Today.
"But what I cannot do is say on day one of a Labour government it will definitely be 4% because we have to manage the public finances prudently."
Asked about shadow chancellor John McDonnell's announcement that Private Finance Initiative (PFI) contracts would be brought "in-house" if Labour won power, he said it would "take time" and not happen "overnight".
"NHS experts generally accept that it is only a handful which are causing hospital trusts across the country a significant problem, but let's look at every single one in detail," Mr Ashworth said.
"I am not going to make a sort of hypothetical guess of how many contracts will be [brought back in-house].
"There are a handful of hospital trusts who have got a problem with their deficits and their financing which is because of the PFI contract they are in."
Image copyright Getty Images

Actor Tony Booth, who starred in BBC sitcom Till Death Us Do Part, has died, his family have said.
Booth, who was 85, had been suffering from Alzheimer's for more than 10 years and had suffered heart problems.
He had a 50-year acting career and appeared in numerous TV shows including Coronation Street, EastEnders, Emmerdale and The Bill.
He was also a political activist and the father of Cherie Booth and father-in-law to ex-prime minister Tony Blair.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Booth (left) starred in Till Death Us Do Part with Una Stubbs, Dandy Nichols and Warren Mitchell

Tony Booth often spoke out against his son-in-law's government and wrote about their life in Downing Street in his autobiography What's Left?.
He campaigned to raise the state pension and criticised the government over the Iraq war.
But he was close to his daughter and was at her side for events including when she was sworn in as a QC.
Image caption Tony Booth was often at his daughter Cherie's side

A statement released on behalf of his wife Steph Booth said he had "passed away late last night with close family members in attendance".
The statement added: "The family ask for their privacy to be respected at this time."
Image copyright PA Image caption In 1987 Booth played Alec Gilroy's best man Charles Halliday in Coronation Street

Born in Liverpool in 1931, Booth discovered a talent for acting during his National Service.
He won parts in shows including Z Cars and Dixon of Dock Green before landing the role of "Scouse git" Mike in Till Death Us Do Part.
Booth played the left-wing son-in-law of right-wing Cockney Alf Garnett in the show between 1966 and 1975.
Image copyright PA Image caption Booth married Coronation Street actress Pat Phoenix in 1986

In real life, Booth was married four times - his third wife was Pat Phoenix who played Elsie Tanner in Coronation Street.
She died a week after they married in 1986.
Booth also appeared in Coronation Street in two stints, in the 1960s and again in 1987.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption John McDonnell: "It's what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing contracts back in-house."
A future Labour government would bring "wasteful" PFI contracts back in the public sector, shadow chancellor John McDonnell has said.
He told Labour's conference the contracts were set to cost the taxpayer 200bn over coming decades and private companies were making "huge profits".
He said Labour, which has previously promised to strike no new deals, would bring PFI contracts "back in-house".
Labour sources later said this meant they would "review" all PFI contracts.
This means it is not clear whether all existing PFI contracts would be taken back - although shadow chief secretary to the Treasury Peter Dowd told the BBC's Daily Politics he expected the "bulk" to "come back in".
The PFI model of funding public services such as new schools and hospitals was pioneered by the Conservatives in the 1990s and has continued under successive governments.
But Mr McDonnell told activists in Brighton that it was draining the public sector of resources and its time was at an end.
"The scandal of the Private Finance Initiative has resulted in huge long-term costs for taxpayers while providing enormous profits for some companies," he said.
"Over the next few decades, nearly 200 billion is scheduled to be paid out of public sector budgets in PFI deals.
In the NHS alone, 831 million in pre-tax profits have been made over the past six years.
"Never again will this waste of taxpayer money be used to subsidise the profits of shareholders, often based in offshore tax havens."
He added: "We have already pledged there will be no new PFI deals signed by us in government.
But we will go further.
It is what you have been calling for.
We will bring existing PFI contracts back in-house".
The BBC's assistant political editor Norman Smith said such a move would "end the 25-year consensus" on using the private sector to fund major projects but to do so would require a "massive" compensation bill and it was not clear where the money would come from.
What is PFI and how prevalent is it?
Image copyright PA Image caption PFI-funded projects range from hospitals and waste facilities to army barracks

PFI is a way of financing investment in public infrastructure using private capital.
Private firms stump up the cost of building facilities - such as a hospital or school - and, in return, the state makes payments over a period of time - often about 25 years - for their use and management.
The model has been attractive to governments of all political persuasions as it limits upfront capital expenditure and reduces risk while future payment obligations do not count towards the national debt.
However, its value for money has long been questioned.
As of March 2016 there were 716 PFI projects, 686 of which were still operational.
The others had either been cancelled or had reached the end of the contract period.
The SNP government stopped new PFI contracts when it came to power in Scotland, replacing them with NPDs (non-profit distributing projects).
One leading economist, John Appleby, from the Nuffield Trust, told the BBC that the NHS alone was repaying private firms about 2bn a year for PFI schemes and the cost of interest payments for completed projects was likely to total 56bn by 2048.
But he added: "The trouble with these kind of announcements is the fine print of the details.
Taking them back into public ownership does not come free.
The money will have to come from somewhere."
But Dave Prentis, from Unison, welcomed the move - saying that although there would be a cost to buying out the contracts it would still be "better value" for the taxpayer than letting them continue for the next 20 years.
Mr McDonnell said Labour had proved doubters wrong by making gains in June's snap election and its goal was to get into power, "rescue" the UK from austerity and "set the political agenda for a generation".
"We have proved we are an effective campaigning party," he said.
"We now have to prove we will be an effective governing party."
He promised to bring "ownership and control of the utilities and key services into the hands of people who use and work in them - rail, water, energy, Royal Mail - we're taking them back".
'Misplaced nostalgia'

Carolyn Fairbairn, director general of the employers organisation the CBI, said Mr McDonnell's plans on nationalisation and PFI were "the wrong plan at the wrong time".
"Forced nationalisation of large parts of British industry will send investors running for the hills, and puts misplaced nostalgia ahead of progressive vision," she said.
And the Conservatives said Labour's promises were "unaffordable" and would not improve public services.
In his speech, Mr McDonnell also promised legislation limiting the amount of interest that can be charged on credit card debts, which he said would ensure no-one would pay more than they borrowed in the first place.
Labour said the proposals would work in a similar way to measures on payday loans, which came into force in 2015, and help people trapped in a "persistent debt spiral".
UK Finance, which represents the financial and banking industry, said it was committed to responsible lending and "the last thing the industry wants is to see those who are most vulnerable being pushed towards the hands of unscrupulous and unregulated lenders".
Image copyright AFP

The EU's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier has called for a "moment of clarity" from the UK as talks resumed.
At the start of a fourth round of talks, Mr Barnier said the process had been going six months and progress on key separation issues was essential.
For the UK, David Davis said Theresa May had shown "leadership and flexibility" in her Florence speech and given reassurances on financial issues.
There were "no excuses for standing in the way of progress", he insisted.
The new round of negotiations is the first chance for the EU team to respond to Mrs May's speech in Italy last week, in which she said the UK wanted a two-year transition period and would honour its financial obligations.
The prime minister aimed to restore momentum to a process that was widely reported to be stalling.
Speaking in Brussels, Mr Barnier said he was "keen and eager" for the UK to translate the "constructive" sentiments in Mrs May's speech into firm negotiating positions on issues such as citizens' rights, the Irish border and financial issues, including the UK's so-called divorce bill.
Remarking that it had been six months since the UK triggered Article 50, he said progress on these three fronts was essential to allow talks to move on to the future of the bilateral trade relationship, as the UK would like.
"We are six months into the process," he said.
"We are getting closer to the UK's withdrawal.
I think this moment should be a moment of clarity."
Mr Davis said he hoped for progress on all fronts but made clear any agreement on financial matters could only be reached in the context of the UK's future partnership with the EU.
"The UK is absolutely committed to work through the detail.
We are laying out concrete proposals and there are no excuses for standing in the way of progress."
Budget black hole

In her speech on Friday, Mrs May offered to continue paying into the EU for a two-year transition after the UK leaves in 2019 to ensure the bloc is not left with a budget black hole.
The prime minister sought to reassure member states that they would not lose out financially during the current EU budget period, which runs to 2020.
She also confirmed there would be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition period, but after Brexit they would be registered as they arrived.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The EU's Brexit negotiator has said more progress needs to be made on "separation" issues

Mr Davis has insisted that Mrs May's speech was not influenced by a 4,000-word article by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson, in the run-up to the event, setting out his own vision for Brexit.
Meanwhile, the UK and Scottish governments have held a fresh round of talks on Brexit in London.
Scotland's Deputy First Minister John Swinney and Brexit minister Mike Russell met First Secretary of State Damian Green to discuss concerns about the EU Withdrawal Bill.
And Mrs May has held talks in Downing Street with Irish premier Leo Varadkar, in her first meeting with an EU leader since the Florence speech.
Mr Varadkar said his counterpart's proposal for a post-Brexit transitional period was a step in the right direction but it was too early to say whether the UK had made sufficient progress in general.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption This T-shirt is a familiar sight at the Labour conference

It is the love that dare not speak its name - so how many Labour Party members are secretly friends with Conservatives?
You don't have to look far at a Labour's annual conference in Brighton to see badges and T-shirts with the slogan "never kissed a Tory".
It might be a bit of fun, but some people have read a deeper meaning into the slogan, seeing it as a depressing sign of our politically divided, tribal times.
Surely people can put aside their political differences in the name of friendship or even romance?
The slogan "is meant to be very tongue-in-cheek, not divisive or hostile", says Mancunian Chris Wills, who sells badges at the LGBT stand and, in any case, the Conservatives have their own versions of it (he must be referring to "I kissed a Tory (and I liked it)" - a Tory LGBT T-shirt slogan).
The idea of fraternising with the enemy is anathema to many old school socialists.
"I don't want to spend my time going on holidays with a Tory," veteran Labour MP Dennis Skinner tells the BBC.
"The idea would be appalling.
When you go on holiday you want to enjoy yourself, not be arguing the toss about different things."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour conference: Delegates on befriending Conservatives

Image caption Chris Owen and Paul Cooney discuss friendships with political rivals

Does he have friends who are Tories?
"Doubt it.
But it doesn't matter to me at all, I've never even given it a thought until you've raised it.
I think it's a crazy notion."
Others take a more relaxed view of making friends across Westminster's political divide.
Ealing North MP Stephen Pound - who once joked that he would disown his daughter if she came home with a Tory - suggested Labour MPs have always chummed up with those sitting on the Conservative benches on the other side of the House of Commons chamber.
"The tradition is that your opponents are sitting opposite you but your enemies are behind you," he says.
"Nigel Evans (Tory MP for Ribble Valley) and I have an understanding and we have been close friends for many years.
"I am friendly with Tories because I wish to show them the error of their ways, and show them the paths of righteousness."
Image caption Jo Sergeant and Harriet Bradley know some Tories

This might reflect the reality of life at Westminster, where MPs from all sides work together on committees and swap cross-party gossip in the bars and restaurants, away from the tribal name-calling that we see on TV.
But some MPs arrive at the place determined not to be seduced into friendly relations with the other side.
Recently-elected Labour MP Laura Pidcock caused a stir last month when she said she had "absolutely no intention" of being friends with any of the Conservatives she encountered at Westminster.
Stephen Stanners, from Blyth Valley, says Ms Pidcock's comments had been "slightly twisted" (she later clarified that she represented all her constituents and would work with Tories in their interests).
Image caption Vince Barry: "Stay away from politics"

"At the end of the day she's not in Parliament to make friends, she's there to do a job for her constituents," he said.
Vince Barry, chairman of Plymouth Labour Students, said he had personal friends who vote Conservative.
"It's difficult if you start talking about politics but as long as you stay away from politics it's OK," he advised.
As a Labour councillor Jo Sergeant, from Bristol, is happy with to work with her political opponents.
"On a personal level they're OK," she says.
Her fellow councillor Harriet Bradley adds: "Not friends, but I have got a lot of Tories in my extended family.
They tease me and I just keep quiet about it."
But Chris Owen from Dewsbury doesn't keep quiet.
"If there are friends of mine who are Tories I persuade them it's the wrong thing to do," he says.
"I am a committed socialist, and that comes through with people."
His friend, Paul Cooney from Huddersfield, advises "setting parameters" to avoid discussing controversial topics.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Police force to appoint commander in direct entry scheme

"Oh mum you look like a cop!"
said Maggie Blyth's daughter, seeing her in uniform for the first time.
But unlike many new cops, Maggie is not about to begin years of grinding out beat shifts as a constable.
She is getting ready to command more than a hundred police officers and staff.
The BBC's Daily Politics was given exclusive access to a new recruit becoming part of one of the most controversial reforms in the history of policing.
After just over a year's training, Maggie Blyth is to become Portsmouth District Commander, Hampshire's first Direct Entry superintendent.
She previously had a 30-year career in child protection.
"One colleague described it as a bit of a handbrake turn," Maggie tells me.
"She said, you've got retirement coming up, couldn't you just settle into those plans?
But I was looking for another challenge, I think I had something to offer."
'Much to be gained'

The government's Direct Entry scheme allows talented civilians to join the police in senior roles.
It breaks a 180-year tradition of officers with "mud on their boots" gradually rising through police ranks.
Maggie addresses this head on: "Before I joined, many of the questions I asked of colleagues in policing and elsewhere, were around credibility."
"I won't have some of the specialist skills of someone who has walked the beat.
What I do bring is a range of other skills and experiences that I think compliment where UK policing is going."
During her career Maggie Blyth dealt with some of the most challenging child protection issues facing authorities.
In Oxford, she chaired the safeguarding children board which made headlines after revealing that 300 children were believed to have been sexually exploited in the city over a number of years, by gangs of mostly Asian men.
Similar cases in Rotherham, Newcastle, and Rochdale showed vulnerable youngsters had been failed by the authorities.
Image caption Maggie Blyth became a superintendent after 30 years in child protection

"Policing is really changing," Maggie says.
"I think there has to be a much better join up between the different NHS health organisations, between local government and policing to find a joint solution to some of these continuing issues facing our communities."
The College of Policing received more than 2,000 applications for this year's Direct Entry scheme.
Recruits have come from banking, Army, and Home Office backgrounds - to name a few.
But not all police forces are receptive.
Only nine forces are looking to take on new Direct Entry recruits in 2017.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd believes there is "much to be gained" from bringing outside talent into policing.
She pointed out in a speech to the National Police Chief's Council last year that there were six people who passed the Direct Entry superintendent assessment who were not offered posts, saying: "That is policing's loss."
'Split second' decisions

Perhaps unsurprisingly from within an institution with a culture of discipline and earning one's rank, there have been concerns.
John Apter from the Hampshire Police Federation told the BBC Daily Politics Programme: "Whilst the Direct Entry recruits are highly motivated and very gifted individuals, they don't really have the concept of policing to fall back on.
"You get the knowledge, and the understanding of policing by walking in the same shoes as those police officers have done"

He believes it could even prove dangerous.
While superintendents take on a strategic, managerial role, John Apter says inspector level recruits could be left particularly exposed, because they must make critical operational decisions under pressure.
"At 3am on a Saturday morning, whether that's a firearms incident, whether it's a hostage type situation, or a large scale public order incident, you don't have a bank of experts on hand to give you advice."
"You have to make those decisions in a split second.
You have to rely on your experience.
I have serious concerns that that will be a problem."
"Direct Entry needs to be evaluated.
It's costing a fortune.
Is it good value for money?
I'm not convinced it is."
Portsmouth presents a wide range of policing challenges.
From alcohol-fuelled violence, to previous problems with radicalisation and some racial tensions, the city is a busy patch.
Maggie Blyth has been completing a series of placements with front-line officers, acting as a sergeant and inspector, making arrests and attending a variety of operations such as drugs raids.
While filming we accompany her to a tower block to follow up on a neighbourhood dispute.
She has been under continuous assessment and will have to sit final exams before becoming Portsmouth's district commander for real.
Respect

I ask her whether she really thinks she has been able to cram in all the knowledge and experience she'll need, in just a year?
"One of the things said to me," Maggie explains, "is that you're already 80% a superintendent in terms of the leadership skills you've brought from elsewhere, 20% is in-depth operational policing knowledge and understanding."
"This last year has equipped me with detailed knowledge of what it's like to be policing in Portsmouth and across Hampshire from a range of specialist aspects of policing.
I think in terms of the advice and support I will also have from colleagues, that equips me well."
So what about officers under her?
Will she have their respect?
Some may have been waiting years themselves for promotion.
"You'd have to ask them," Maggie says.
"I've had a very strong welcome.
Peers have said to me phone any time, even if it's 4am in the morning.
"I'm sure, quite rightly, there will be questions asked about new ways of entry into policing and how effective that is.
"My own personal view is that having different routes into policing is positive.
We should be diverse"

Changing long-held traditions in policing was always going to be tough.
Many have doubts about Direct Entry, and Maggie Blyth knows an excellent track record from her previous career can only get her so far.
She will need to prove her worth.
But an officer who accompanies us, confides in me off camera, saying: "Everyone wants her to succeed.
Whatever people say about it beforehand, once someone is in there with you, you want them to succeed.
That is policing.
We're a team."
Image copyright Getty Images

The 2017 general election was the moment when the internet finally delivered on its long-awaited promise of having a big effect, both on how individual people voted and the overall outcome of the election.
A flood of young voters, many of whom had relatively low levels of political knowledge, used the internet to get news about the general election.
This was crucial for boosting support for Labour and Jeremy Corbyn, according to new research on the dynamics of the 2017 vote.
In recent years, there has been talk about the power of the internet to affect elections.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, some pointed to a growth of pro-Labour websites and online forums as a potentially powerful weapon in Labour's arsenal.
Our study is one of the first to document how this online activity really did help Jeremy Corbyn and his party.
We've found that those who used the internet to get news about the general election were far more likely to have voted Labour.
And we observed that those who used the internet less often to gather political news and information were much more likely to vote Conservative.
This relationship is true for the entire electorate and across all age groups.
And it continues to have a strong and positive effect on how people voted, even after we take into account a whole range of factors including age, gender, social class, party identification, how people voted in the referendum and levels of education.
Overall, among all respondents, our research suggests that 16% used the internet "a great deal" to get information about the election, 23% used it "a fair amount", 23% "not very much" and 38% "not at all" or said they did not know.
However, those who use the internet more often were significantly more likely to vote Labour.
Sixty-one per cent of those who used the internet "a great deal" to gather news about the general election opted for Labour, compared with only 21% who voted Conservative.
Conversely, 56% who said they used the internet "not at all" voted Conservative, while 30% opted for Labour.
How much people use the internet also correlates with voting patterns among older people.
Again, those who said they use the internet a great deal were strongly pro-Labour and pro-Jeremy Corbyn.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The study found that Labour's vote was boosted by young people who followed the election online

These effects involve a combination of two factors: "mobilisation" (things that influence people to turn out and vote) and "persuasion" (things that influence their choice of party).
Turnout among people aged 18-29 was up by an estimated 19% on the previous general election in 2015.
Our data shows that both the decision to vote and the choices these young people made at the polls were associated with the volume of news about the election that they consumed online.
Another effect that we find relates to how knowledgeable people are about politics.
In our surveys, we tested people's political knowledge by asking if eight randomly selected statements were true or false and then counted the number of correct answers.
The statements included assertions like: "The minimum voting age for UK general elections is now 16 years of age," and "The chancellor of the Exchequer is responsible for setting interest rates in the UK."
Though internet usage and political knowledge are only slightly linked, it is clear that, after rigorous statistical tests, how knowledgeable people are about politics had significant effects on how they voted.
If survey respondents were frequent internet users but did not know much about politics they tended to vote Labour.
In contrast, if they weren't internet savvy but knew a fair bit about politics, they tended to vote Conservative.
These effects held across all age groups for both Labour and the Conservatives, with the exception of pensioners in the case of the Tories.
This means that those effects weren't caused by the age of the respondent, which at first sight is the obvious explanation for differences in internet usage among the voters.
Put simply, political knowledge continues to have a strong effect on Labour and Conservative voting even after we take statistical account of all of "the usual suspects" that are used to explain voting - such as social class, age, gender income, people's "left-right" placement and how they voted in the 2016 referendum.
The effects of internet usage and political knowledge work strongly through voters' images of the party leaders.
Even after we take account of a whole host of other things, like age and income, people with low political knowledge who used the internet to get their election news tended to like Jeremy Corbyn and dislike Theresa May.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May scored higher than Jeremy Corbyn among those who did not use the internet

For example, among those who said they used the internet "a great deal", the average score for Jeremy Corbyn on a 0 ("really dislike") to 10 ("really like") scale is 6.4, whereas among those who said they did not use the internet at all, his average score is much lower, only 3.4.
The pattern for Theresa May is the opposite: her average score among those who used the internet a great deal is 2.9, whereas among those who did not use the net, her average is considerably higher, at 5.3.
For Jeremy Corbyn, political knowledge, the survey suggests, has a negative effect on feelings about the Labour leader while internet usage has a positive effect.
For Theresa May, political knowledge has a positive effect on feelings about the Conservative Party leader while internet usage has a negative effect.
In contrast, people with high political knowledge who did not use the internet for general election news liked Mrs May and disliked Mr Corbyn.
About this piece

This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from experts working for outside organisations.
Harold Clarke is Ashbel Smith professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Matthew Goodwin is professor of political science at the University of Kent, Canterbury, Paul Whiteley is a professor of government at the University of Essex and Marianne Stewart is a professor at the University of Texas, Dallas.
Discover more about the methodology they used here.
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has used a speech in Florence to set out the UK's position on how to move Brexit talks forward.
With further negotiations planned next week, what did her speech tell us about the sort of Brexit deal we might end up with?
Reality Check correspondent Chris Morris has been scanning the speech.
Future of the EU

What's the significance?
It's worth noting that a lot of Brexit supporters in the UK jumped on Jean-Claude Juncker's State of the European Union speech last week - in which he set out an ambitious agenda of greater integration - as an example of why they wanted to leave in the first place.
The PM picked up on this - we're getting out of your way while you move in a different direction that we've never felt entirely comfortable with.
That's good for both of us she implied.
It slightly ignores the fact that many EU leaders wouldn't agree with Mr Juncker's proposals - but it's a point that will go down well on the Tory backbenches.
Success of Brexit

What's the significance?
The tone matters here.
Urging EU leaders to be creative, ambitious and to share a "profound sense of responsibility to make this change work" is a bit of a departure from the language in her last major speech on Brexit at Lancaster House in London in January.
It contained warnings of "an act of calamitous self-harm" for the countries of Europe if they sought to punish the UK, and the famous assertion that "no deal is better than a bad deal" for Britain.
The rest of the EU will take note of this more collaborative appeal but will also be watching to see whether the tone changes again in the prime minister's speech to the Conservative party conference next month.
Citizens' rights

What's the significance?
The prime minister is saying she wants to incorporate an agreement on EU citizens' rights into UK law, and she thinks UK courts should be able to "take into account" the judgements of the European Court of Justice.
It's a real guarantee, she says: "We want you to stay."
The trouble is that it's not what the EU is demanding.
The chief EU negotiator Michel Barnier insisted in a speech yesterday that the Court of Justice should remain the ultimate guarantor of any agreement.
The big difficulty here is that jurisdiction is a pretty black-and-white issue - there are few grey areas.
As things stand, the UK view is that British courts should have the final say, and the EU sees that as unacceptable.
Trade

What's the significance?
So the Prime Minister has ruled out a European Economic Area-style solution to a future relationship (this would be like Norway - part of the single market but not part of the EU).
Mrs May says it would still be too restrictive for the UK.
And she ruled out an ambitious free trade deal like the one the EU has with Canada - it would take too long and would ignore the fact that we start from a position where all our rules and regulations are the same.
So she wants a unique solution - a new deep and special partnership.
But in this speech she hasn't really given more details of exactly what that solution would be.
Transitional period

What's the significance?
This is important.
It means that during a transition period - the prime minister suggested two years as a possibility - all the rules will remain the same.
That means payments into the EU budget, free movement of people and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice would stay in place.
That's always been the position of the rest of the EU - it now appears that the UK has accepted that there is no way round this.
Mrs May confirmed that there will be no restrictions on EU citizens coming to the UK during the transition, but that after Brexit they will be registered as they arrive.
That is something that the UK could already do under current EU rules, but it never has done so.
'Divorce bill'

What's the significance?
The prime minister is trying to reassure other member states that no net contributor will have to pay more, and no net recipient will receive less, during the current seven-year budget period, which runs until the end of 2020.
That suggests that the UK will provide the sum of roughly 20bn euros (18bn) in the two-year transition period that it has now proposed.
What's not yet clear is whether the UK thinks these payments will also cover some of its outstanding debts - debts that the EU insists have to be settled as part of a withdrawal agreement.
The rest of the EU will view the 18bn as payment for the UK being allowed to maintain its current role in the single market.
A lot depends on what exactly Mrs May meant by this key sentence: "The UK will honour commitments made during the period of our membership."
Note she didn't say "all" our commitments.
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Some critics dismissed Jeremy Corbyn's call for the state to take back control of water, electricity and rail

As Jeremy Corbyn prepares for his first party conference since a stronger than expected general election result, what would his plans for the state to take control of water, electricity and the railways mean for Britain?
Shareholders may not be fully compensated under Labour's nationalisation plans, it is understood.
Investors in companies judged to have behaved poorly since privatisation could lose out.
They will not necessarily receive the full market value of their shareholding.
Labour figures believe Parliament should consider how much companies have invested and how they have managed their assets when it calculates compensation.
English water companies would be a priority for public ownership, and Labour may make investors exchange shares for government debt - or gilts.
Prof David Hall, from Greenwich University, says the nationalisation of the failing bank Northern Rock - and a court case that followed - showed it was "perfectly reasonable" for the government to take ownership of a private company without fully compensating shareholders.
In Northern Rock's case, investors were paid nothing.
During Jeremy Corbyn's first leadership campaign John McDonnell - then Mr Corbyn's campaign agent, now shadow chancellor - warned a Labour government might take back recently privatised companies with reduced compensation or none at all.
Prof Hall says: "Some people think of it as the government just buying things on the stock market.
That's not how public ownership works."
Labour thinks privatisations in the 1980s and 1990s were a bad idea, and that privatised companies give consumers a bad deal.
'Bargain basement prices'

Mariana Mazzucato is the Director of UCL's Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose and a former Labour adviser.
Image copyright Mariana Mazzucato Image caption Prof Mariana Mazzucato warns poorly structured privatisation can sell the public sector short

She doesn't advocate the party's policy, but warns that privatisation without enough conditions attached can see businesses "benefiting massively from publicly created value".
They can get assets at "bargain basement prices," she says, and may not invest further but enjoy short-term profits.
"It ends up in the private sector, having [come] from the public sector, and [the new owner] not having done its part."
Labour says prices would be lower under public ownership because the state can borrow to fund investment more cheaply than private companies.
Disruptive?
Britain would need to borrow tens of billions of pounds to fund nationalisations, but would then hold valuable assets.
Supporters point out water, for example, was never privatised in Scotland and Northern Ireland, and is run by a not-for-profit company in Wales.
There are plenty of examples on the Continent of publicly run utilities.
But the details of Labour's likely plans show how disruptive they could be to some businesses.
Taking control of English water companies would see the state ordering companies whose shares are not listed on the stock exchange - some of whose owners are based abroad - to hand over equity in return for public debt.
Opponents say this would alarm investors, driving them and their money abroad.
With electricity, the party intends to take charge of the companies that run regional power networks by changing their licence terms.
Private companies would be left owning - but no longer controlling - electricity lines and substations.
Rail franchises - the rights to run trains in different parts of the country - would be taken up by the state as they expired.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Economist Sir John Vickers argues neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses

To sceptics and critics, there is a hole at the heart of the plan: any evidence that the state would do a better job than private companies.
Oxford economist and former head of the Office of Fair Trading Sir John Vickers says neither public nor private control is innately superior for businesses where consumers can't shop around - such as control of water pipes.
Interference and inefficiency?
Independent regulation can deal with many problems, he says, but adds: "Memories can be short.
The previous era, the nationalised era, was not exactly glorious in terms of efficiency, customer service and investment in these sectors."
Put more robustly - nationalisation's critics think it would see a return to political interference and inefficiency.
Who's right?
There are clues, in not only longstanding public companies but also new ones.
Image copyright Bristol Energy

In Bristol and Nottingham, the city councils own their own energy retail businesses.
Bristol Energy was set up under a previous independent mayor, but the present Labour incumbent Marvin Rees says: "We are the shareholder as the city.
When we make a return, it comes back into the city.
People are buying a product off a company that invests in Bristol."
Public ownership for them means not just the principle of control, but ethical behaviour: advice for customers and seeking out the best deals for people who struggle to heat their homes.
Image copyright Bristol City Council Image caption Bristol Mayor Marvin Rees argues the Bristol Energy model can work

Crucially, if it works, it will be taxpayers, not shareholders, who benefit - if it works.
For now, Bristol Energy is losing money, more than 10m over two years.
The city has given the company loans and guarantees worth 17m.
The company expects to be profitable by 2021.
Plenty of new companies lose money, but when I ask Bristol Energy's managing director, Peter Haigh, how much he expects to have lost by 2021, I don't get an answer.
As with any business, failure is possible, and here taxpayers would bear the cost.
Neither side in this debate can prove by accountancy or precedent that nationalisation would see consumers better or worse off.
One group has been proven wrong though: those who paid the policy little attention when Labour's manifesto leaked before the general election because they thought the party leader was about to lead his party to political annihilation.
Mr Corbyn and Corbynism survived.
The nationalisation debate is back.
Image copyright Getty Images

The idea of a transition period after Brexit is being talked about more and more often.
But there's very little consensus on what it might look like.
Bespoke or off-the-peg?
In the frustratingly fuzzy terminology of Brexit, this tailoring choice, between something made to measure and ready-to-wear, is often used to describe the options for stitching together a relationship between the UK and the EU immediately after Brexit in March 2019.
This is not to be confused with the long-term "deep and special partnership" Theresa May promises.
Rather, it is what the prime minister describes as an "implementation period" but many others call "the transition" - the adjustment phase between Britain leaving the EU and arriving at some future and final destination.
When Mrs May talks about a "smooth" Brexit that avoids a "cliff edge", it is the arrangements for a transition phase she is referring to, covering customs systems, immigration controls, aviation regulation, criminal justice cooperation and more.
But 15 months on from the EU referendum, and with negotiations in Brussels apparently stuck, the UK government is under pressure (not least from business) to spell out what this transition phase might look like - to replace hazy rhetoric with specific proposals.
This is what cabinet ministers have been scrapping about, both in private and public through the summer, and it may be a focus of Theresa May's speech in Florence on Friday.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cabinet ministers have varying ideas on what a "transition phase" might look like

The Article 50 process allows only two years of negotiations to hammer out a withdrawal agreement (the terms of divorce), which should take into account "the framework for [the UK's] future relationship with the union".
With six months already gone, it's clear that neither side believes there's any chance of wrapping up and ratifying a new trade deal in that time.
In fact legally, the EU can conclude a new trade relationship with the UK only after Britain has left.
That's why the government now believes a transition period will be necessary.
It will have to be negotiated with the EU, of course, but what do we know about Theresa May's thinking?
Even though there is no formally stated government position, her ministers were very loquacious on the subject over the summer, and splits have been clear.
On 20 June, the Chancellor, Philip Hammond, pressed the need to negotiate "mutually beneficial transitional arrangements".
A month later, the Trade Secretary, Liam Fox, (a leading Leave campaigner) said any transition period had to end by the date of the next election, due in 2022.
In mid-August, the two cabinet ministers wrote a joint article stating a "time-limited interim period will be important to further our national interest and give business greater certainty - but it cannot be a back door to staying in the EU".
They also said the UK would be outside the customs union during this transition period.
Then on 12 September, Philip Hammond told a House of Lords committee the government was looking for a transition deal that looked "a lot like the status quo".
It's a fair guess that the Foreign Secretary, Boris Johnson, does not.
His 4,300-word rumination in the Daily Telegraph on Britain's post-Brexit future made no mention of a transitional period.
Speaking afterwards in New York, Mr Johnson said the UK should not make any "extortionate" payments to the EU for access to the single market after Brexit, and insisted any transition period should not be "too long".
The argument goes on, and soon Theresa May will have to choose.
Although the cabinet does seem to broadly agree a transitional period is needed, it is a political minefield for the prime minister.
The government has been adamant that Britain will no longer be a member of the single market on Brexit day, and will leave the customs union.
Instead, it wants continued access to the single market and customs arrangements as frictionless as they are now, while having the freedom to strike trade deals with non-EU countries.
That's the "sweet spot" status quo Philip Hammond has talked about.
The Tories' opponents say this is a fantasy.
Over the summer, the Labour Party arrived at the view that the only way to minimise economic disruption during a transition period was to keep Britain in the single market (through membership of the European Free Trade Association and the European Economic Area) and the customs union.
It is one obvious "off the shelf" option.
But for many Eurosceptic Conservatives, it is a non-starter.
It would mean the continued free movement of people to Britain, a continued role for the European Court of Justice and a hefty price tag.
But Henry Newman, director of the think tank Open Europe, thinks a "pay-to-play" arrangement is what the UK is likely to seek.
"I think the UK is going to have to say it will voluntarily impose ECJ judgements, and voluntarily pay as if we were EU members during that period," Mr Newman says.
Furthermore, putting money on the negotiating table now to pay for a transition deal could be a way for the UK to unblock the stalled talks.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brexit talks in Brussels are currently focused on UK payments to the EU, rather than trade arrangements

How much?
The figure of 10bn euros a year for three years is often heard around Whitehall.
So long as payments do not continue beyond the transition period, Boris Johnson may be kept on board.
Apart from the cost, the big concern among Brexit-supporting Tories is that a transition deal that looks a lot like the status quo could harden into something permanent.
Prof Kenneth Armstrong is the author of Brexit Time: Leaving the EU - Why, How and When?
He believes that if the UK negotiates its way into the single market, the aim of then negotiating a comprehensive free trade agreement with the EU might be put off indefinitely.
The result?
"A UK that finds itself lost in transition," Prof Armstrong warns.
Complicating matters further for the UK is the fact the EU shows no inclination to sew together a bespoke transitional deal.
The EU's own negotiating mandate is clear that any transitional arrangements must be in the interests of the European Union, "limited in time, and subject to effective enforcement mechanisms".
EU leaders will not want the UK to have the benefits of the economic status quo without the obligations of membership.
"No cherry picking," is the mantra in Brussels.
The remaining 27 members of the EU are (so far) united in aims and tactics.
Even if Theresa May manages to bind her cabinet around a transition position that satisfies all wings of her party, it will still need the consent of the EU.
Negotiations with the EU are likely to move forward only if the UK is much more explicit about the price it is willing to pay and can map out where a transition will eventually lead.
Image copyright Getty Images

Labour's annual conference gets under way in Brighton on Sunday - what could the week hold for the expected thousands of delegates?
Party time

It's going to be noisy, colourful and big - Jeremy Corbyn did better than anyone expected at the general election, gaining an extra 30 MPs, and Brighton is the first chance his followers have had to celebrate that achievement en masse.
Party membership has increased to nearly 600,000, making Labour the biggest political party in Europe.
Mr Corbyn has said he is looking forward to "a brilliant conference, the biggest we've ever held".
But there are still tensions behind the scenes between the newly-dominant Corbynite wing of the party and the "moderates", some of whom will, no doubt, insist on ruining the party mood by pointing out that Labour did not actually win the election.
Preparing for an election

Making political predictions is unfashionable so it's anyone's guess whether there'll be another general election sooner rather than later.
With Theresa May trying to manage a minority government, Mr Corbyn is betting on the "sooner" option.
While most MPs headed for the beach, he spent the summer touring marginal constituencies ensuring his troops were on full election footing.
At conference, there'll be a big drive to train new members in Labour's latest campaign technology and techniques.
Instead of sipping warm wine (or Prosecco) at fringe meetings, many delegates will be drilled in "Promote", Labour's new digital marketing tool that spreads tailored messages via Facebook.
Humour

All sounding rather earnest so far?
Take heart from Billy Hayes, former leader of the Communication Workers Union, who told Progress magazine recently that older activists were marvelling at "the invention and humour of newer 21st Century socialists".
All one happy family?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jeremy Corbyn meets fans on his summer tour

Only a year ago, Labour MPs tried to oust Mr Corbyn as party leader.
Thanks to the support of members, he held on.
Since Mr Corbyn's surprise general election success, some MPs seem to have softened their stance, in public at least.
But those recent divisions, coupled with Labour's history of strife, do not simply vanish.
And there are several dimensions.
Grassroots members versus the Parliamentary Labour Party.... Blairites versus the Left...
Momentum versus "moderate" MPs.
But how vitriolic will any disagreements be?
In a pre-conference message Mr Corbyn felt moved to ask delegates to debate in a "comradely, respectful and honest way".
The conference will be a test of his skills in keeping divisions in check.
Brexit

All the recent headlines have been about Conservative splits, but the EU is a divisive issue for Labour too.
In fact, Brexit could cause one of the biggest arguments of all at conference.
Labour is getting the Brexit debate out of the way on Monday morning.
Most Labour MPs are Remainers although there are a handful of Leavers.
And more Brexit

So what exactly is Labour's position?
After a period of constructive ambiguity Labour announced last month it would support full participation in the single market and customs union during a "transitional period".
It was hailed as a dramatic policy shift, positioning Labour as the party of "soft Brexit".
But some Labour MPs believe they should be fighting to stay in the EU or at least to remain in the single market after Brexit.
Some support the idea of a referendum on any Brexit deal.
In short, it's unlikely the party will be able to unite behind one policy.
If delegates don't get enough Brexit on the conference floor there are plenty of fringe meetings, including one called: "What Brexit means for music."
Refreshments are provided, thankfully.
Personality politics

Mr Corbyn may profess to shy away from personality politics but his opponents won't.
The Conservatives are trying to frighten each other (and voters) with warnings about Mr Corbyn.
William Hague said this week that the Tories must unite or "Jeremy Corbyn will be the Prime Minister... completely ruining this country".
And if fear doesn't hit home, there's ridicule.
Sir Vince Cable joked that Mr Corbyn's "acolytes are focused on how to maximise the contradictions of capitalism".
Many people will learn about Mr Corbyn via the media.
It seems journalists may no longer have access to the conference floor, close to the action, and will have to watch from the balcony.
Hell hath no fury like a sketch-writer dumped in the cheap seats.
Corbyn's big speech

Image copyright Getty Images/PA Image caption There have been comparisons between Clement Attlee and Jeremy Corbyn

After a wobbly start, Mr Corbyn has grown in confidence as a political front man, getting to grips with an autocue, something he had never had cause to use during his decades on the back benches, and appearing more poised in media interviews and at the weekly bear-pit of Prime Minister's Questions.
His big speech on Wednesday will give him a chance to reach out beyond the party faithful in the hall into the homes of evening news viewers.
His supporters, such as MP Chris Williamson, say Labour will come to recognise Mr Corbyn as the best leader they've ever had - better than the post-war Labour leader Clement Attlee, another unflashy speaker.
But will his message cut through to sofa-bound floating voters?
Policy debates

Image copyright Reuters

We're told the party's election manifesto "For the Many, Not the Few" will be "fleshed out" at conference.
Key pledges include scrapping tuition fees and renationalising the railways.
On tax, Labour would introduce a 45p rate on salaries of over 80,000 and a 50p one for earnings above 123,000.
There would be more free childcare, guaranteed incomes for pensioners, 10,000 new police officers and 3,000 extra firefighers.
Will Mr Corbyn and his frontbench team - including shadow chancellor John McDonnell (above) - be able to flesh out answers to questions about whether there's enough money to pay for his plans?
Tinkering with the party machine

Labour's ruling body - the National Executive Committee - has agreed to Mr Corbyn's plans to hand more power to party members.
At the moment, they've got six representatives on the 35-member NEC.
Mr Corbyn wants to create three further seats for them.
There's an extra seat for the trade unions too.
The proposals require the approval of conference.
Team Corbyn says they are not technicalities but part of a "democratic revolution".
Critics say they signify Mr Corbyn 'tightening his grip on the party'.
Expect to hear a lot of that phrase.
The 'McDonnell amendment'

Jeremy Corbyn is also keen to reduce the amount of influence MPs have in who leads the party.
The current rule is that you only get on the shortlist if you have the backing of 15% of all Labour MPs and MEPs.
Mr Corbyn got on the shortlist by the skin of his teeth in 2015 thanks to some kindly Labour MPs who thought that including Mr Corbyn would widen the debate (It certainly did that).
In previous leadership elections, other left-wing candidates haven't been so lucky.
John McDonnell, the shadow chancellor, failed to get on the shortlist twice.
Mr Corbyn wants to change the rules so that a candidate only needs the support of 10% of MPs.
This has become known as the McDonnell amendment.
It could mean other wannabe leaders don't have to rely on a pity vote from moderates.
Who gets to speak from the main stage?
Image copyright Getty Images

In recent years Labour conferences have often been a beauty parade of the party's big names giving set piece speeches in the main hall.
Momentum - Jeremy Corbyn's support group - and others on the left say they want to open it up to "ordinary" party members, back to the pre-New Labour days of conference debating and deciding on party policy.
Decisions about who gets to speak and what is debated are made by the Conference Arrangements Committee and Mr Corbyn apparently wants shorter and fewer set piece speeches.
There had been specualtion that London mayor Sadiq Khan and the mayor of Greater Manchester, Andy Burnham would not get speaking slots, as "punishment" for their past criticisms of the leader, but The Guardian says Mr Khan will get to speak after the Conference Arrangements Committee "managed to secure him a slot".
But all these decisions could be easily be changed, right up to the last minute.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Nigel Mansell, Nigel Kennedy and Nigel Farage - the last of a dying breed?
Celebrities and sports stars are often credited with influencing parents' choice of baby names - but it seems that politicians rarely have the same effect.
He was barely off the television in 2016 - but in the year of his greatest political triumph, it now seems there was no surge in people wanting to name their baby after Nigel Farage.
Nigel as a baby name has been teetering on the brink of extinction in England and Wales for several years and has now all but disappeared, according to the latest Office for National Statistics figures.
At most there were two Nigels born in 2016 - the ONS doesn't keep the data to tell us whether it was two, one or zero - but we can says for sure that more people in England and Wales named their child Elvis - three - than Nigel last year.
It seems unlikely to be anything personal, or to do with Brexit - there was an increase to 39 in the number of Borises, after all - but instead must just be another casualty of the mysterious forces of fashion that dictate baby names in Britain.
Where are all the Kevins, Trevors, Sharons, Doreens or, for that matter, Brians now?
Why are names like Oliver, William, Olivia and Emily so popular?
Peak Nigel occurred in 1963 - the year before the former UKIP leader was born - when 5,529 babies were given the name.
Like Norman (14 babies in 2016), Clive (3), Trevor (6) and other popular baby boy names of the mid-20th Century, it has slipped steadily from use, and may have to wait a decade or two more for its inevitable revival - when it is no longer seen as a middle-aged chap's name.
If it's any consolation, its decline was not as steep as that experienced by some 1970s favourites.
The first Darren was elected to the House of Commons this year - Labour's Darren Jones.
He might well be the last, with just 55 Darrens registered last year.
Image copyright UK Parliament Image caption The first Darren in Parliament - and the last?
Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
How popular is my name?
Search for your name Boys Girls

You can tell a lot about a politician or a public figure from their first name.
Some are blessed with neutral-sounding names that can be easily adapted to any circumstance; others are not so lucky.
Tony Blair - who has had children named after him in Kosovo and Sierra Leone (we're not sure about Iraq) in honour of his military interventions in those countries - was rarely Anthony, unless he was appearing as a barrister.
David "call me Dave" Cameron was another prime minister with a classless moniker, unlike his posher-sounding Chancellor Gideon (39 babies in 2016), who changed his name to the ever-popular George (5,236) as a teenager.
Image copyright Getty Images

The current crop of party leaders are blessed with solid but rather unfashionable first names, befitting their age and background.
Theresa is on the slide from an already low base - 19 babies shared their name with the prime minister last year, compared with 34 two decade ago - and Jeremy hardly fared better in 2016, with 54 newborn boys sharing the Labour leader's name, compared with 108 in 1996.
Corbyn, though, is on the up as a first name - 18 in 2016 compared with less than three in 1996.
There were slightly more baby Vinces (14) than Lib Dem MPs.
Home Secretary Amber Rudd fares a lot better - there were 1,066 baby Ambers last year.
But although Brits have long named their children after film stars and other celebrities - with the new Star Wars film apparently inspiring some choices in 2016 - politicians have rarely been a source of inspiration.
Few named their children after Winston Churchill in the 1940s, although the name was popular in the Commonwealth.
But one political name has undergone something of a revival in recent years, with 26 children beginning their journey in life last year as Enoch - up from none two decades earlier.
It is not known how many - if any - named their offspring after controversial "rivers of blood" MP Enoch Powell, however.
Image caption Shadow chancellor John McDonnell does not have the support of some of his fellow MPs

The Labour leadership don't simply want to be prepared for the possibility of an early election.
With the recent manoeuvrings within government, they think it's increasingly likely.
And there was a danger that next week's Labour conference could have highlighted internal divisions rather than promoted unity.
Due for discussion was the so called "McDonnell amendment".
Opponents of the shadow chancellor named it after him to highlight how someone as unpopular as he is with his fellow MPs could be on a future leadership ballot if only 5% of parliamentarians nominated him.
Currently, the support of 15% of Labour MPs and MEPs is required.
An 'interim' compromise

So Labour's ruling NEC has agreed a compromise.
The threshold to take part in future leadership elections would be reduced - on an "interim" basis - from 15% to 10% of Labour MPs and MEPs.
Opponents of Jeremy Corbyn don't really see this as a compromise at all.
They believe that a candidate as left-wing as Jeremy Corbyn could well be nominated by 10% of the parliamentary party (and opposed by 90% of existing MPs) and win the contest when the left-wing membership gets its say.
But it's unlikely they will have enough votes to defeat this when the final decision is taken at Labour's conference.
Image copyright PA Image caption Jeremy Corbyn has kept his party on an election footing

Some on the left, however, including leading lights in Momentum, the group that formed out of the first Jeremy Corbyn leadership campaign, see this as too much of a compromise.
They think the left should take an historic opportunity to entrench its power.
But the party leader is moving rather more cautiously.
So what we will see are attempts to tip the balance of power in the party machine more in his favour, without driving critics out.
The make-up of the ruling NEC will be altered, with three more members elected by the largely Corbyn-supporting grassroots.
However, as a sop to opponents, a new union place on the NEC is likely to go to Usdaw - which didn't back his leadership.
Long grass

The more controversial reforms will be "long grassed" until next year as part of a wider review of the party's rules and structures.
Jeremy Corbyn himself will present its remit to the NEC on Tuesday and propose that the former MP Katy Clark - firmly on the party's left but liked and respected more widely - will be in charge of the process.
However, I have been sent the terms of reference for the review, and understand that one of the totems of the left - mandatory reselection - won't be part of its remit.
Image caption The terms of reference of the review will not include mandatory reselection

For many years those who have wanted to see more power in the hands of left-wing members have argued that sitting MPs should have to - in effect - apply for their own job between each election.
They will be disappointed that Jeremy Corbyn doesn't appear to be intent on creating a PLP in his image.
MPs have Theresa May to thank for this.
Her apparent vulnerability means that, practically, this wouldn't be a good time for a Labour leader to declare war on his parliamentary party.
But in truth, Jeremy Corbyn also believes the existing system can be used more effectively to unseat unpopular MPs.
Local constituency parties can re-adopt an MP on the nod but they also have the little-used power to ballot all party members in a particular seat on whether to open up the contest to challengers.
Image copyright PA Image caption A return to the Blairite past looks increasingly unlikely

I am told that another demand by the left to water down Tom Watson's power by creating a second deputy leader post won't be explicitly included in the review, but that the process wouldn't preclude this from being discussed.
So don't expect to see revolutionary changes to Labour's structures today.
Instead, there is likely to be another incremental shift in the balance of power away from MPs and towards both the party leadership and the more left-wing membership.
The changes wouldn't make a return to the Blairite past impossible - but it would be increasingly unlikely.
Richard Angell, the director of Progress - which calls itself Labour's "centrist pressure group" and is seen within the party as a Blairite outfit - is not impressed.
"We are now in a permanent campaign to undermine the role of MPs, marginalise their voice and get them to acquiesce," he says.
"Never before has a review of this kind been conducted from behind the closed doors of the leader's office."
Image copyright PA Image caption One of the party's former leaders wants to see "dangerous ideas" to the fore

It is more than two years since their much-criticised alliance with the Conservatives came to an end.
But there are those who worry the Liberal Democrats are still in something of a post-coalition haze, to coin a phrase having "lost a (ministerial) empire but not yet found a role".
The Brexit vote has, of course, given the party fresh impetus and, with membership numbers rising above 100,000, there is no shortage of new blood at this conference.
Tim Farron's speech - a very personal reflection on how the Lib Dems clawed their way back from the brink of extinction in 2015 under his leadership - was meant to show this is a party with plenty of life in it.
While it would be unusual to expect new policies so soon after an election and with a new leader feeling his way, the conference, so far, has hardly been teeming with new ideas, a state of affairs which led one ex-leader to bemoan the shortage of new thinking and the ceding of big ideas to the left and right of the political spectrum.
Paddy Ashdown's critique of the party in the run-up to the conference and appeal for a "ferment of debate" may have touched a nerve, as it was designed to do, but there are many activists who broadly agree with him.
"We made compromises and we became compromised," says Graham Neale, chair of the Green Liberal Democrats, of his party's five years in government.
"15 years ago we were seen as the green party and synonymous with that.
Since coalition we seem to have lost our way."
Others are more forgiving of the sacrifices the party had to make in government, when it was hugely outnumbered but still often managed to punch above its weight, and believe its leaders have learnt lessons.
Mick Clark, a member from Yeovil, says one of the party's abiding strengths is its willingness to look itself in the mirror.
"Looking at the coalition era, there were positives and negatives.
Any party that does not learn from its own mistakes and those of others is deemed to failure."
'Bold centrism'

He believes it would be a mistake for the Lib Dems to now follow the Conservatives and Labour down the route of what he describes as "emotionally-led" politics.
"Everybody loves hope but when it is false hope it is misleading," he says.
"As a party we do need to be bold, to remain true to our beliefs.
To say you are a bold centrist may sound something like an oxymoron, to say the middle ground is an adventurous place but we are the party of common sense policies."
A recurring theme talking to new members, particularly those who previously supported the Tories, is distaste about cuts to welfare budgets in the past two years and a desire for the Lib Dems to push back harder on issues ranging from housing benefit to disability living allowances.
"Liberal values and the way the world is moving require us to take a more radical view," says Michelle Booth, who joined the party last year and wants the leadership to focus on the most vulnerable in society.
Image caption The Lib Dems should be the champions of a zero-carbon Britain, environmentalists argue

"It is all very well saying centrist moderate but to get to where we want to be and where we need to be, we do need to be a bit more radical and stand up for what counts."
The environment, both in terms of promoting clean energy and protecting biodiversity, is another priority for many.
The Green Liberal Democrats are using the conference to launch a fully-costed plan for a zero-carbon Britain by 2050 which they claim goes well beyond what anyone else is envisaging, including the Greens.
"It means we are going to be more than credible on the environment," says Graham Neale.
"We have to be radical and find ideas that we can introduce into the mainstream."
While excited about the pace of technological change in the renewable sector, he is worried about the Lib Dems' continued support for nuclear power, in particular the "flawed" building of a new multi-billion reactor at Hinkley Point.
"It is so difficult to tie us in to a horizon for more than 20 years.
You saw last week that the strike price of wind is falling like a stone.
I can see why we need energy security but things are changing so quickly."
'Open wounds'

Talk to any Lib Dem about the process of revitalisation and it is hard to escape the shadow of student tuition fees and the impact that U-turn had on young voters - who flocked in their droves to Jeremy Corbyn at the election.
One young party member, from Wantage, in Oxfordshire, is hopeful that Labour will eventually let down young voters over Brexit and other issues but he says the party's tuition fees issue does need to be "put to bed".
"There is definitely a need to keep acknowledging that wounds were opened through the decisions at the start of coalition which were politically necessary but were badly handled," he says.
"But it is not a matter of apologising for ever.
Explain and be done and come out with something strong and new."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tim Farron said the party had been vindicated time and time again over the years

It is hoped the emergence of a new, younger generation of MPs at the election, and the return of figures like Jo Swinson will broaden the party's appeal, as will its bottom-up, inclusive tradition of policy-making.
"Even though nationally the party might be struggling, you do see a lot of young people coming to conference because they want to be involved in shaping the offer that the party will make," says one member.
"That is important for young folk.
In this generation that we can all tap on our phones and contribute to thinking, a party which says this is your policy arena, you can get involved is really important.
"It is that next generational message, the idea that we are not going to be fighting for political short-termism which is really special about the Lib Dems."
Image copyright PA

Pants to Brexit was one of the more eye-catching chants - complete with props to hand - on show during Sunday's pro-EU march here at the English seaside.
Many of those present were wearing berets sporting the EU flag while one held an image of Edvard Munch's famous picture The Scream with the word Brexit superimposed on it.
Charlotte Morrow, a Lib Dem member from Somerset, said politicians had let the people down and she was alarmed by what she suggested was a "Little England" mentality creeping in over the future of EU citizens living in the UK.
"I don't like the rhetoric.
I don't like what I see.
I don't like that people now feel entitled to say 'leave, you are no longer welcome here.'"
But the mixture of slapstick, cheery defiance and apocalyptic imagery on display at the demo - organised by Dorset for Europe - belied a rather different argument going on nearby about how the UK's exit from the EU can be stopped.
Lib Dem activists overwhelmingly endorsed the leadership's call for the public to have the final say on the final terms of Brexit in the form of what is being dubbed an "exit from Brexit" referendum.
The option of a get-out clause for opponents of Brexit has always been popular among this most pro-European of parties.
It has gained greater traction since the general election result destabilised Theresa May's government and the parliamentary arithmetic of a hung Parliament threw supporters of a soft Brexit a lifeline.
Caron Lindsay, the editor of Lib Dem Voice, tweeted during the debate that it illustrated the unity within the party on opposing Brexit but agreement over the means is slightly less unanimous.
While in a definite minority, those voicing opposition to the idea of another referendum in the conference hall hinted at a wider unease within the party.
Image caption Lib Dems like Karen Lawrance says the party must stick to its beliefs

One member warned it was likely to be "toxic" for the 52% of the electorate who had voted to leave while another described it as akin to "flogging a dead horse" given the widely-held view that Article 50 is an irreversible process.
Mick Taylor, a former general election candidate who spoke against the idea, said afterwards while he acknowledged the "groundswell of opinion" in favour of another referendum and would respect the result, he had reservations.
"The problem with referendums is that they detract from the role of MPs.
The role of MPs is to be elected on behalf of the people they represent, go to Parliament and make decisions.
While the Calderdale activist wants Lib Dems to oppose Brexit "by all democratic means", he said the logic of holding a referendum on the same subject - albeit with a different premise - was principled but could be flawed.
"I don't think it has anything to do with differentiation.
I think it has to do with a genuine belief, which I don't share that having started the process with a plebiscite you need to finish it with one.
"Since Parliament is sovereign, the final decision will ultimately be taken by Parliament anyway.
The only thing that a plebiscite will do is delay a decision being taken."
But elsewhere, Sir Vince Cable's insistence that he is not just seeking a replay of the 2016 vote does find favour.
Image copyright PA Image caption Most Lib Dems applaud Vince Cable for toughening his language on Brexit

"The Lib Dems are united in stopping Brexit, it is just the method being discussed," says Karen Lawrence, from Worcester, who took part in the march.
While she is clear another a referendum won't settle the issue - "I think the country is apart on this issue and will be apart for years and years" - she feels it is an example of the radicalism ex-leader Lord Ashdown has called for in the wake of the underwhelming general election result.
"It is not a second referendum.
It is the first referendum on what the deal actually is," she insists.
"We have to stand by what we believe in.
We are not about doing what is popular for the whole country but do what is right as far as we are concerned."
For many, including Charlotte Morrow, a second referendum is an opportunity to right a wrong and allow 16 and 17-year olds, as well as EU citizens in the UK and all British expats on the continent, to have their say.
"If I thought it (the 2016 referendum) was fair and everyone here thought it was fair, they would be sat at home having their roast dinner today."
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince Cable's problem is crystallised at Prime Minister's Questions in the Commons.
He doesn't get much of a look-in.
Theresa and Jeremy have crossed swords, senior backbenchers on the government and opposition sides have spoken, the SNP's Ian Blackford has had his two questions, and then finally, as the session extends well beyond its once-normal half hour, with MPs drifting from the chambers to bag an early place in the canteen queue, the leader of the Liberal Democrats is called.
A bully pulpit it's not.
A single question at the fag end of an extended PMQs is not a commanding position from which to address the nation.
But, in parliamentary terms, this is as good as it will get for Sir Vince.
With just 12 MPs, his party is no longer entitled to more than a minimal slot at PMQs, and comes well down the pecking order in all the other parliamentary occasions, too.
Worse, MPs seldom see the need to hang around to listen to what it has to say.
Outside Westminster, the same problem is manifest.
Overshadowed

The start of Liberal Democrats' conference week was overshadowed by Boris Johnson's Brexit eruption.
The end of the week will be dominated by Theresa May setting out her vision of Brexit in Florence.
Sir Vince's speech was even blown off 24 hour news by President Trump's appearance at the UN.
That's showbusiness.
So how does a fourth party leader gain that most precious of political commodities - attention?
His predecessor, Tim Farron, never quite managed it, either in the Commons or outside.
A Lib Dem leader, typically, has to spend the first couple of weeks of a general election campaign introducing themselves to voters, who may not even be aware of their existence.
Mr Farron spent those vital days side-tracked into discussing his evangelical Christian views on gay sex.
After that his moment was lost.
Can I commend to Sir Vince a possibly unwelcome role model: David Owen?
Image copyright house of commons Image caption Former leader Tim Farron never quite won the battle for attention inside or outside Parliament

Having refused to join in the SDP's merger with the Liberals, and more recently having backed Brexit, the Doctor is not remembered with affection in Lib Dem circles, but bear with me.
In the mid-1980s, he kept the SDP, with just six MPs, in the national spotlight by sheer force of personality.
He offered a combination of eye-catching ideas and a shameless "anytime, anyplace anywhere" willingness to appear on the media, plus (and this is critical) he always had something interesting to say.
Sir Vince has many of the ingredients necessary to repeat this performance.
Like Dr Owen, he has few visible means of political support - but he does have a level of public recognition as a former cabinet minister, and from his appearance on Strictly.
More important, he has the credentials to speak on the big issue of the day, and be listened to.
In the 1980s, as the Cold War moved towards its end, Dr Owen could speak about the nuclear balance of terror and relations with the Soviet Union.
Post-referendum, Sir Vince can speak, with the authority of a former business secretary, about the implications for industry of the UK's future relations with the EU.
And more than that, as an ex-member of the coalition cabinet, he knows the key players in the Conservative government and can find the pressure points in their internal debate on Brexit.
The parallels don't end there.
With no internal rivals in his party, Sir Vince has considerable freedom of action - so he has a lot of room to be as pungent and as radical as he wants.
He can be a bruiser.
His wounding zinger to then Prime Minister Gordon Brown, noting his transformation "from Stalin to Mr Bean", was one of those rare parliamentary put-downs that did real damage.
Speeches like this one can matter.
Lib Dem insiders believe Nick Clegg's resignation speech in 2015, with its robust defence of liberalism, helped attract thousands of new members.
They hope that if their new leader finds the right words, that could happen again.
Image caption Sir Vince may not appreciate comparison with Lord Owen

Sir Vince's deadpan Yorkshire delivery is probably better suited to one-liners than 10-pagers, and he did indeed offer some effective-looking one-liners.
His speech also offered policy nuggets to groups of voters such as greens, pensioners and internationalists.
But to reach their target audience, he needs an effective social media presence - so one of his key tasks will be to assemble a team capable of putting his message across online.
Was it wise to revisit the coalition and student debt?
Sir Vince worked hard to exorcise the ghosts of the coalition era in general, and the policy U-turn on student tuition fees in particular, but he was the minister who proposed the coalition's tuition fee increase to the Commons, and reminding people of it may simply bring a fading issue back to mind.
His calculation must be that the Lib Dems' electoral rivals will certainly remember, and are bound to throw tuition fees at him.
Plus, some of the Commons constituencies the Lib Dems hope to gain or regain are university seats - hence the section about his work with the National Union of Students to find a way forward on student finance, and hence his proposal to "support all young people in future with an endowment or learning account, which they can use at any stage in life helping to finance further or higher education, either at the post-18 stage or later in life".
He also toyed with replacing the existing loan scheme with some form of graduate tax.
Strategic gamble

The central theme was his opposition to Brexit.
As the Lib Dem USP, it didn't work - much - at the last election.
But Sir Vince is doubling down and continues to offer voters "an exit from Brexit" via a referendum on the final deal with the EU.
He delighted his conference by describing the Brexiteers as "silly public schoolboys reliving their dormitory pillow fights".
And his money quote - "We will be denounced as traitors and saboteurs... but if the definition of sabotage is fighting to protect British jobs, public services, the environment and civil liberties, then I am a proud saboteur," - positions his party to capitalise if the government (or Labour) stumbles or splits over Brexit.
That is the big strategic judgement, or maybe gamble, in this speech, whatever else it has to say about housing, green issues or President Trump.
Image copyright PA

Sir Vince's signature has appeared on a number of Commons amendments to the EU (Withdrawal) Bill from Conservative Remainers and Labour's active pro-EU faction.
I doubt he anticipates a flock of defections from either side - but he has shown he's willing to co-operate across party lines, and in the long term that may widen cracks in Tory and Labour unity.
But it is also telling that there is not much sign of MPs from elsewhere signing Lib Dem amendments at the moment - and if the truth be told, the diminished strength of the Lib Dems would provide a rather fragile lifeboat for any pro-EU Conservative or Labour MPs.
If there is indeed to be an "anti-Brexit people's liberation front", it is a long way from materialising.
Building on his much-mocked comment that he could yet be prime minister, he ended his speech with the hope that his party could once again challenge for a place in government.
For that to happen he also needs luck.
Consistent success in council elections is all very well, but he really needs a run of by-elections in winnable Commons seats to show that the Orange Army is back in the game.
Image copyright AFP

Liberal Democrats are gathering in Bournemouth for their annual conference.
Here's a guide to the event which runs from Saturday to Tuesday.
Setting the scene...
Think back to 2015 when the Liberal Democrats took a hammering at the general election, punished for going into coalition with the Conservatives.
From 57 MPs, they were reduced to a rump of just eight.
Big names - Vince Cable, Ed Davey, Danny Alexander - were voted out.
The Lib Dems lost their status as the third largest party in the Commons - a role seized by the SNP.
Image copyright PA Image caption Sir Ed Davey lost his seat in 2015, but regained it in 2017

After their humiliating defeat the Lib Dems were the butt of jokes, often delivered by the Conservative politicians they'd been partners with for five years.
At conference 2017, the Lib Dems can take some comfort from the fact that the really tough times seem to be behind them.
Things have got better - with membership increasing since the end of the coalition years, a trend that accelerated after last year's EU referendum, thanks to the party's pre-Remain stance.
Women on board

Image copyright PA Image caption Christine Jardine is one of the Lib Dems four female MPs

The Lib Dems got a confidence boost last December when their candidate Sarah Olney won the Richmond Park by election - unseating the Conservative Zac Goldsmith.
Her victory was widely put down to Remain-voting constituents venting their anger over Brexit.
For a party that prides itself on gender equality, it was a source of embarrassment that after the 2015 election the remaining eight Lib Dem MPs were all men.
Thanks to this year's general election, four of their 12 MPs are now women: Wera Hobhouse, Christine Jardine, Layla Moran and Jo Swinson.
With the presence of women MPs on the podium at this year's conference, credibility is restored.
Soul-searching after the snap election

Image copyright AFP Image caption Sarah Olney - who won and lost Richmond Park - is now Sir Vince's chief of staff

It had looked as if the Liberal Democrats might carve out a role as the "go-to" party for the 48% who voted to stay in the EU.
They were understandably optimistic about gaining extra seats at the snap general election in June.
But it did not work out like that.
The Lib Dems only gained four additional seats, taking the number of MPs up to 12.
But their share of the vote actually went down to 7.4% from 7.9% in 2015.
Even the Brexit factor seemed to fade away with Zac Goldsmith winning Richmond Park back from Sarah Olney.
One casualty after the election was Tim Farron, who held his seat as an MP but lost the role of leader he had held since the summer of 2015.
At conference, there will be some soul-searching about how the Lib Dems position themselves.
Having spent five years in national government, it's hard to play the plucky outsider challenging the Establishment.
Time for some big ideas

Image copyright PA Image caption Lord Ashdown has warned members they must "think big" again

Do the Lib Dems really want to be a think-tank for rival parties again?
With British politics looking rather polarised, there might seem to be some empty space in the centre.
Former leader Lord Ashdown thinks it's time for the Lib Dems to produce some more eye-catching policies.
In a pre-conference letter to his party, he told members they were producing "very few new ideas" and must "think big" again.
New leader

Image copyright AFP

The party will be holding this year's conference with a new leader.
Sir Vince was crowned leader in July after no-one else stood for the role.
Aged 74, he brings plenty of experience - from his warnings about risks ahead of the financial crash, to his ministerial jobs in the Conservative-Lib Dem coalition.
And don't forget his appearance on Strictly Come Dancing.
He also showed some nifty footwork to win back the Twickenham seat at this year's election, two years after losing out to a Conservative.
He has appointed Sarah Olney as his chief of staff.
As documented above, she's had a rather lively start to her political career, but as a relatively fresh face might she help with the generating of fresh ideas.
Getting noticed

Image caption There was a time when everyone appeared to agree with a Lib Dem leader

Getting (positive) publicity hasn't been easy for Lib Dem leaders in recent years - but the conference will give Vince Cable a chance to reach out to voters.
He's got a head-start on recent incumbents because quite a few people know who he is.
The challenge for Sir Vince is to stir up some excitement.
Earlier this month he gave a considered speech to the Resolution think-tank on how to reduce inequality.
He called it a "social and economic weakness" in the UK and thinks it's one reason why the UK voted for Brexit.
He promised to make inequality a "theme" of his leadership.
Will he be able to translate that into appealing policies?
But remember when Nick Clegg wowed people at the party leaders' TV debates in 2010?
Sir Vince's speech on the last day of conference (Tuesday) is his big moment.
Will he unveil a dangerous new idea that captures media attention, or have the jokes to cut through on social media?
Brexit, Brexit, Brexit

Image copyright AFP

A big question for the Liberal Democrats is where they stand now on Brexit.
With the wheels for exiting the EU in motion, finding the right stance is trickier than it might appear.
At the general election - when Tim Farron was leader - the party argued for a referendum on any deal reached with the EU - the choice being: accept the deal or stay in the EU.
Vince Cable used to argue against another referendum.
Since becoming leader, he supports it.
Given how divisive Brexit is, the leadership may wish they could put Brexit on the backburner at the conference.
But activists want a bold position and there could be a lively debate on the second day of the conference if a motion to block Brexit altogether gets an airing.
Stephen Crosher is one of the activists moving the motion, which proposes that the Lib Dems urge the government to "reverse the triggering" (to detrigger?)
of Article 50, which set in motion the UK's exit from the EU.
One tactic to avoid attention is to point out other parties' weaknesses.
Sir Vince has tried to capitalise on differences within the Conservative and Labour Party.
At conference, he is likely to continue in this vein, suggesting that the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is, quietly, a hard Brexiteer.
The idea is to try again to lure to the Lib Dems the pro-EU voters who backed Mr Corbyn at the election.
Dissenters

The Lib Dems are not exclusively Hard Remainers so the "reverse Brexit" motion, if debated, would not necessarily get an easy ride.
In a Commons vote in March, the official Lib Dem position was to vote against triggering Article 50.
But two Liberal Democrat MPs - Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland - abstained, arguing that the result of the referendum should be respected.
Brexit in many forms

Brexit will appear at many times and in many guises.
After lunch on Saturday there will be a debate about the impact on public services.
A motion tabled by the Lib Dem peer and former MEP Baroness Ludford accuses the Conservatives and Labour of being committed to a "hard Brexit including abandoning membership of the European Single Market".
It also says that more than half of the 10,000 doctors from European Economic Area countries are "considering leaving the UK" because of Brexit - and that applications from EU nurses to work in the NHS has fallen by 96%.
Whacky ideas

It's traditional to look out for what might seem wide of the mainstream ideas being debated at the Lib Dem conference, especially at fringe meetings.
Watch this space.
In the meantime, delegates can let off steam at the official Lib Dem disco on Saturday night or the "Communi-oke".
Key debates at the Liberal Democrats conference:

Saturday, 16 September

09.00-09.05 Opening of Conference by Baroness Brinton

09.25-10.10 Policy motion: Learning to Communicate in English

14.10-15.25 Policy motion: The Impact of Brexit on Public Services

17.50-18.00 Report: Campaign for Gender Balance

Sunday, 17 September

10.00-10.45 Policy motion: Armed Forces Personnel: Recruitment, Retention and Welfare

10.45-12.30 Consultative session: Europe

14.10-15.10 Question and answer session: Leader Sir Vince Cable

15.30-16.45 Policy motion: Safe Building Standards for all Homes

Monday, 18 September

10.00-11.00 Policy motion: Defeating Terrorism, Protecting Liberties 32

11.00-11.20 Speech: Former leader Tim Farron

14.10-15.10 Policy motion: Employment in the 21st Century

15.30-16.30 Policy motion: Encouraging Companies to be Responsible Corporate Citizens

Tuesday, 19 September

09.00-09.35 Policy motion: European Atomic Energy Community

11.10-11.50 Policy motion: Protecting Small Businesses

12.10-12.50 Policy motion: Gun and Knife Crime

14.10-15.30 Leader's Speech: Sir Vince Cable

Correction 26 September 2017: An earlier version of this story wrongly said that Norman Lamb and Greg Mulholland voted for Article 50 being triggered.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Election 2017: Highlights of TV election coverage

An at-a-glance guide to the key points of the UK General Election.
The headlines

The Conservatives have lost their Commons majority - the Tories are now the largest party in a hung Parliament

Theresa May says she will form a government and work with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs, after going to Buckingham Palace to see the Queen.
The PM says she is "sorry" for colleagues who lost their seats.
Jeremy Corbyn says she should quit and Labour wants to attempt a minority government

The Conservatives plus 10 DUP MPs have 328 seats - more than the other parties put together.
A so-called "progressive alliance" between Labour, SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and Greens would have 314.
A majority is 326.
There are 262 seats for Labour - up 30 seats; 35 seats for the SNP, a loss of 21 seats; the Lib Dems are up four to 12 seats; Plaid Cymru on four seats; the Greens on one, and none for UKIP

UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has resigned

In Northern Ireland, the SDLP and the UUP have lost all their Westminster MPs after a night of big gains for the DUP and Sinn Fin

The Lib Dems had a mixed night with some former big figures returning - but ex-leader Nick Clegg losing his seat

Leader Tim Farron called on Theresa May to resign

The SNP remains the largest party in Scotland but the Conservatives have won 12 seats from them so far; Labour have won seven; the Lib Dems three

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP is ready to work with others to try to keep the Conservatives out of government and block their Brexit strategy

There is economic uncertainty reflected in the City

Voter turnout is up by 2% to 69% - the highest since 1997.
The vote share is Conservative 42%, Labour 40%, Lib Dems 7%, UKIP 2% and the Greens 2%.
Labour put in a strong showing in Wales, taking back Gower, Cardiff North and Vale of Clwyd from the Conservatives

Follow the latest news at it happens on our live page

Big scalps

Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'Mara

Former SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.
Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.
Other notable results

For more results, click here

Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
Find your constituency and candidates Enter a postcode or seat name Start typing to search Search for constituencies

What the parties are saying

Speaking outside Number 10, Theresa May said she intended to form a government which could "provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country".
She gave little detail on how the arrangement with the DUP may work.
DUP leader Arlene Foster confirmed she had spoken to Mrs May and they would speak further to "explore how it may be possible to bring stability to this nation at this time of great challenge".
Jeremy Corbyn said: "People have had quite enough of austerity politics" and Mrs May should "go and make way for a government that is truly representative of this country"

Mr Clegg warned of a "grave gulf" between young and old in the UK and said the next Parliament will preside "over a deeply divided and polarised nation"

Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "She called this election expecting a coronation, and took each and every one of us for granted in the most cynical way possible."
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Brexit "is in some trouble" if Jeremy Corbyn forms a coalition and he will "have absolutely no choice" but to come back into British politics

SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP has "won the election in Scotland" but she is disappointed to see losses: "We've got some reflection to do."
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson: "Indyref 2 is dead in Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon needs to reflect on that."
"I'm afraid we ran a pretty dreadful campaign," said Conservative Anna Soubry who says the prime minister "needs to consider her position".
"I think it will be difficult for her to survive," DUP leader Arlene Foster on Theresa May.
Social media reaction

The hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority.
More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour.
Read more here

The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.
While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.
Key video clips

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says the UK needs a period of stability

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn: "I'm very, very proud of the campaign my party has run"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Laura Kuenssberg says the result is a "total political disaster for Theresa May"

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This is the moment the general election exit poll is announced

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Clegg: 'There's a huge gulf between young and old'

Analysis

BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg:

The conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.
There is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party.
As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ.
But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign.
Read more from Laura

John Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of Strathclyde

This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.
On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office.
While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position.
However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.
BBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed:

When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.
Why would that cause the currency to decline?
Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain.
Read more from Kamal

Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has.
The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable.
Read more from Philip

In pictures

Image copyright AFP Image caption The exit poll projected onto BBC Broadcasting House

Image copyright Reuters Image caption Jeremy Corbyn said he was "humbled" by the size of the vote for him

See more images from the night here

Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mrs May said it was now incumbent on the Conservatives to offer "stability"

Image caption Nick Clegg: "Live by the sword, you die by the sword"

Image copyright EPA Image caption Nicola Sturgeon was disappointed by losses but said the SNP remained the biggest party in Scotland
The Conservatives have lost seats in Parliament and no longer enjoy an overall majority, while Labour has exceeded the expectations of pollsters and increased its number of MPs.
But this isn't the whole story...

1.
The Conservatives won 20 seats

Although it was a bad night for Theresa May's party overall, with 33 MPs ejected from Parliament, it actually won seats elsewhere.
The majority of their gains were in Scotland, where the Conservatives performed well against the SNP, unseating the former SNP leader Alex Salmond in Gordon.
The party also took six seats from Labour, and snatched Clacton from UKIP.
2. Who lost seats to Labour?
Labour's six losses were offset by 36 gains - 28 of which were from the Conservatives and two from the Lib Dems - including Nick Clegg's former seat of Sheffield Hallam.
The party also took six Scottish seats from the SNP.
Most of the changes were in Scotland and the north of England

Although the political landscape of Northern Ireland has also shifted dramatically with the UUP and the SDLP losing all of their MPs.
Changed seats All seats Please enable Javascript to view our results map Con

Con Lab

Lab SNP

SNP LD

LD PC

PC UKIP

UKIP Ind

Ind DUP

DUP SDLP

SDLP UUP

UUP SF

SF Green

More maps showing the changes from 2015 to 2017 are here.
The SNP saw some huge majorities disappear

The table below shows the largest majorities in the last general election in 2015 that have been overturned.
Nine of the largest 10 previously belonged to the SNP - a 14,000-vote majority won by the party's former spokesperson on social justice, Eilidh Whiteford, in 2015 has been converted into a 4,000-vote majority for the Conservatives.
Constituency (out of 650 so far) Result 2015 Majority 2017 Majority Banff & Buchan CON GAIN FROM SNP 14339 3693 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill LAB GAIN FROM SNP 11501 1586 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock CON GAIN FROM SNP 11265 2774 Angus CON GAIN FROM SNP 11230 2645 Stirling CON GAIN FROM SNP 10480 148 Ochil & South Perthshire CON GAIN FROM SNP 10168 3359 Rutherglen & Hamilton West LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9975 265 Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9974 259 Midlothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9859 885 Canterbury LAB GAIN FROM CON 9798 187 Oxford West & Abingdon LD GAIN FROM CON 9582 816 Glasgow North East LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9222 242 Moray CON GAIN FROM SNP 9065 4159 Gordon CON GAIN FROM SNP 8687 2607 Battersea LAB GAIN FROM CON 7938 2416 Kensington LAB GAIN FROM CON 7361 20 Aberdeen South CON GAIN FROM SNP 7230 4752 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine CON GAIN FROM SNP 7033 7949 East Lothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 6803 3083 Warwick & Leamington LAB GAIN FROM CON 6606 1206 Reading East LAB GAIN FROM CON 6520 3749 Dumfries & Galloway CON GAIN FROM SNP 6514 5643 Foyle SF GAIN FROM SDLP 6046 169 South Down SF GAIN FROM SDLP 5891 2446 Colne Valley LAB GAIN FROM CON 5378 915 Mansfield CON GAIN FROM LAB 5315 1057 Portsmouth South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5241 1554 Stockton South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5046 888 Bristol North West LAB GAIN FROM CON 4944 4761 High Peak LAB GAIN FROM CON 4894 2322 Stroud LAB GAIN FROM CON 4866 687 Enfield Southgate LAB GAIN FROM CON 4753 4355 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD GAIN FROM SNP 3844 2044 Bath LD GAIN FROM CON 3833 5694 Ipswich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3733 831 Renfrewshire East CON GAIN FROM SNP 3718 4712 Crewe & Nantwich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3620 48 Clacton CON GAIN FROM UKIP 3437 15828 Edinburgh West LD GAIN FROM SNP 3210 2988 Ceredigion PC GAIN FROM LD 3067 104 Keighley LAB GAIN FROM CON 3053 249 Leeds North West LAB GAIN FROM LD 2907 4224 Kingston & Surbiton LD GAIN FROM CON 2834 4124 Warrington South LAB GAIN FROM CON 2750 2549 Copeland CON WIN 2564 1695 Stoke-on-Trent South CON GAIN FROM LAB 2539 663 Sheffield Hallam LAB GAIN FROM LD 2353 2125 Middlesbrough South & Cleveland East CON GAIN FROM LAB 2268 1020 Dunbartonshire East LD GAIN FROM SNP 2167 5339 Cardiff North LAB GAIN FROM CON 2137 4174 Twickenham LD GAIN FROM CON 2017 9762 Walsall North CON GAIN FROM LAB 1937 2601 Peterborough LAB GAIN FROM CON 1925 607 Derbyshire North East CON GAIN FROM LAB 1883 2861 Lincoln LAB GAIN FROM CON 1443 1538 Southport CON GAIN FROM LD 1322 2914 Bedford LAB GAIN FROM CON 1097 789 South Antrim DUP GAIN FROM UUP 949 3208 Belfast South DUP GAIN FROM SDLP 906 1996 Weaver Vale LAB GAIN FROM CON 806 3928 Eastbourne LD GAIN FROM CON 733 1609 Brighton Kemptown LAB GAIN FROM CON 690 9868 Fermanagh & South Tyrone SF GAIN FROM UUP 530 875 Plymouth Sutton & Devonport LAB GAIN FROM CON 523 6807 Bury North LAB GAIN FROM CON 378 4375 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk CON GAIN FROM SNP 328 11060 Vale of Clwyd LAB GAIN FROM CON 237 2379 Croydon Central LAB GAIN FROM CON 165 5652 Derby North LAB GAIN FROM CON 41 2015 Gower LAB GAIN FROM CON 27 3269
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May awaiting her constituency result in the early hours of Friday

The post mortem on how Theresa May managed to lose her majority in Thursday's general election after expecting to secure a landslide victory is well under way.
Here are 10 theories.
First things first.
Did she blow it?
The Conservatives came first in this election with 318 seats, with Labour the next biggest party on 262 seats.
The Conservatives got more votes that anyone else - 42.4% to Labour's 40% - and Theresa May's party got more votes than anyone since the record-breaking total John Major received in 1992.
And yes, that means she got more votes than Tony Blair's New Labour landslide in 1997.
So, you ask, in what sense did she blow it?
Well, she had 331 MPs - more than the 326 needed to have a Commons majority - when she decided to call the election with the aim of increasing her majority.
She also began the campaign with an undisputed opinion-poll lead in double figures and a landslide victory within her grasp.
She ends it having to try to do a deal with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to stay in power, and knowing that, the decision to call a snap election will go down as one of the biggest own goals in British political history.
So how did it come to this?
1) Deciding to call an election

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reaction from Bristol: 'You're joking.
Why does she need to do it?'
Theresa May had been serenely racking up stunning approval ratings and huge opinion-poll leads.
Her constant refrain was "Brexit meant Brexit" and it seemed a serious, tough, honest and non-flashy politician was what the British people wanted.
Her honeymoon period felt like that of another self-consciously unshowy prime minister who came to power without an election - Gordon Brown.
But unlike Mr Brown in 2007, she did not allow speculation about a snap election to run rife only to blow her reputation by deciding not to call one after all.
She ruled out having an election.
And then she changed her mind.
She insisted she was acting in the national interest but others detected baser motives.
Jeremy Corbyn said: "How can any voter trust what the prime minister says?".
Nicola Sturgeon said it was a naked power grab and a bid to crush all opposition.
The public, like Brenda in Bristol, seemed weary of politics and voting.
2) The wrong type of campaign

Image copyright Getty Images

This was Theresa May's election - the Conservatives were some way off in the distance, if they were visible at all, at the start of the campaign.
But was she the right kind of candidate to be placed front and centre like this?
Katie Perrior, Mrs May's former director of communications thinks not.
Writing in the Times, she said: "If you run a presidential-style campaign with a woman who doesn't like media interviews, then you have to accept that it's better to do them and run the risk that they go badly than look like you are running scared.
Furthermore, if you want to brag that your candidate is a bloody difficult woman, then she has to show some empathy to remind people she is human after all."
3) Dodging the TV debates

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Home Secretary Amber Rudd and senior politicians from six other parties took part in the debate.
With huge poll leads at the start of the campaign it was quickly decided that Mrs May would not take part in anything as risky as a TV debate with her main challenger, Jeremy Corbyn, or risk meeting too many members of the public in big rallies.
That decision backfired when Mr Corbyn decided to take part in a seven-way debate with other party leaders - he did not make a big deal of her absence, but everybody else on the stage did.
The Green Party's Caroline Lucas said: "You don't say it's the most important election of our lifetime and not be bothered to show up."
Mrs May might have performed badly in the debate, but she arguably took a far bigger reputational hit by not taking part, as it opened her up to accusations she was running scared, or that she was complacently assuming victory.
4) Underestimating the opposition

Image copyright Reuters

Sporting history is littered with underdogs triumphing because they wanted to win more than their opponents, or put in more effort.
The same sometimes goes for politics.
In this election Mrs May seemed like she would be happy to say "strong and stable" from dawn until the sun set over the fields of wheat she "naughtily" ran through as a child.
There was little in the way of a positive message to entice floating voters.
Her campaign team did not seem able to conceive of the idea that anyone would take Mr Corbyn seriously.
They underestimated how well his anti-austerity message would go over with voters worn out by years of frozen wages and public spending squeezes.
Many commentators, on the left and right, who had written Jeremy Corbyn off as vote-losing liability have had to eat their words since the election.
Just about everyone underestimated his appeal, once he was given a chance to air his views unmediated by a largely hostile press.
5) Manifesto policies

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anna Soubry has given a frank assessment of her party's campaign

The turning point of the campaign, according to insiders, was Theresa May's U-turn on social care.
Team May were apparently so confident of victory that they thought they could tackle the looming problem of social care costs - an issue parties scrapping to win elections have generally shied away from.
But within hours the main thing many people knew about the Conservative programme for government was that it included a "dementia tax" that could lead to more people having to sell their homes to pay for care.
The same went for means-testing the winter fuel allowance and ending the "triple lock" that guarantees a minimum 2.5% increase in the state pension.
Mrs May might have got away with the rapid U-turn on social care - something that is almost unheard of the middle of an election campaign - if she had owned up to it but she continued to insist that nothing had changed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: This is the right way forward

Anna Soubry, an anti-Brexit Tory MP said this was the moment that she lost her "strong and stable" reputation.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested, off the record, that the 2017 manifesto was the worst the party has ever published.
Ms Soubry said it was more a problem of "appalling" presentation - not properly explaining the social care changes, which would actually have benefited many less well-off people - and allowing people to think free school meals for poor children were being axed, when in fact the plan was to end the free lunches for all infants, which benefits the better-off.
6) Not reacting to the Labour surge

Image copyright Reuters

Nick Timothy, pictured, who was forced out as Theresa May's policy adviser after the election result, suggests Team May were not even aware that there was a surge in Labour support as polling day approached.
In his resignation statement, he said this was "because modern campaigning techniques require ever-narrower targeting of specific voters, and we were not talking to the people who decided to vote for Labour".
Instead of pushing their message on the NHS and the energy price cap to get wavering Labour voters on side, they doubled down on what they thought was their strongest suit - Brexit and "strong and stable leadership" in contrast to a "coalition of chaos" under Mr Corbyn.
7) May's personality

Image copyright Getty Images

People knew very little about Theresa May before the campaign started - she had been home secretary for a long time but had not courted publicity like some of her cabinet colleagues.
An introvert, by Westminster standards, who does not like talking about her private feelings, she tended to come across as ill-at-ease on the TV sofa.
Like Hillary Clinton in last year's US elections, she was not a natural on the campaign trail either.
As Daily Mail sketch writer Quentin Letts pointed out at one event, she tended to look a bit miserable, or as he put it, a "glumbucket'.
Mr Corbyn, on the other hand, looked like he was enjoying himself.
At the end of the campaign, Mrs May had to rely on Boris Johnson, a natural political showman, to whip up the crowds.
8) Negativity and the youth vote

Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May spent a lot of time attacking Jeremy Corbyn's credibility and, as Nick Timothy has acknowledged, not enough time setting out her "positive plan for for the future".
There are shades of Clinton here again, who focused heavily on attacking her opponent's fitness for office rather than explaining what she would do with power.
Conservative attacks on Mr Corbyn's anti-terror record will have sounded alarm bells with older readers of Conservative-supporting newspapers.
They may have meant less to anyone under 30, who were more interested in what the Labour leader had to say about their future rather than who he was holding meetings with decades ago.
Labour countered Tory attack ads on Facebook with upbeat messages and celebrity endorsements.
Labour's successful push to get out the youth vote was a decisive factor in some seats, although there is still some debate about the size of the surge in voting among 18 to 24-year-olds.
The Tory campaign was widely criticised for being negative and uninspiring.
9) Fox hunting and 'the same old Tories'

Image copyright EPA Image caption Anti-hunting protesters marched on Downing Street

It may simply have been a repetition of a longstanding Tory policy but Theresa May's vow to hold a free vote on bringing back fox hunting is thought by some to have harmed her efforts to seal the deal with Labour voters flirting with the Conservatives.
It came up a lot on the doorstep, according to some reports, helping to "re-toxify" the Conservative brand among voters in traditional Labour areas, which Mrs May was banking on to win a big majority.
Like the social care U-turn, or the pledge to bring back grammar schools, it may have given anyone flirting with backing the Tories for the first time in their lives a reason not to switch their vote.
10) Events

Theresa May wanted the election to be about Brexit but the terror attacks in Manchester and London changed the course of the campaign.
Suddenly it was all about security and anti-terror policy.
This should have put the former home secretary in a strong position, and her statements on the attacks struck a suitably prime ministerial tone.
Labour's criticism of cuts to police numbers gave them a line of attack against Mrs May - but the pause in campaigning that followed the terrorist incidents resulted in a sombre and strangely off-kilter ending to the election.
Here is a selection of your views:

"Ignoring remain voters - too much focus on "no deal is better than a bad deal" and complaining that Remain voters were "citizens of nowhere" alienated the 48%.
Playing so much to the UKIP vote backfired in many areas of the country.
Evidence for this: the swing to Labour from Tories was much larger in Remain voting areas than Leave voting ones," Sue, York.
"Jeremy Corbyn was reckless and irresponsible in the promises he was making particularly to the youth voters.
Promising to give 'free university' at a cost to the UK of 11.5 Billion a year, is an example of the 'money tree' that pays for all !
Corbyn could afford to be reckless in his election promises because he didn't expect to win or be PM."
Ron, Stoke-on-Trent.
"The Conservatives underestimated the collapse in the number of votes for the UKIP party.
It must have been apparent that these votes would go somewhere and not necessarily all to the Conservative Party.
Clearly some of these went to the Labour Party.
The Labour Party will always have a strong backing in the cities and these extra votes from the UKIP party helped Labour get more seats.
This should have been anticipated and calculated before Mrs May called the election so some of her advisers and backroom staff got it clearly wrong and miscalculated - or was it Mrs May just determined to call the election whatever?," Jeff

"Definitely Fox Hunting swayed me.
I left the Labour Party as a member when JC became leader.
I didn't think he was electable (and he still might not be) and predicted a Labour wipe-out with him at the helm.
But as the election went on I was slowly taken back into the fold by his positive campaign.
I'd always agreed with his policies, just him as a leader I had doubts over.
The more he engaged though the more I cheered, and once the manifestos where published it was game over for the Tories.
But yes, the fox hunting was the initial game changer (as it was announced early on) - and then everything else just fell into place," Ian, Chester.
"I'm surprised that more hasn't been made of the proposed boundary changes, which would have reduced MPs from 650 to 600.
If May had forced these through and then called the election she would have undoubtedly won a majority, as they massively favour the Conservatives.
One report suggested that under the new boundaries Labour could be 10% ahead of the Tories and still not have a majority," Andrew, Loughborough.
"The Tories did not lose their majority over the stance favouring a hard Brexit.
They lost seats because the majority accept that Brexit will happen and all the other issues of economic and social policy were more important issues in the election.
Mrs May needs to ignore the pro Remain Major, Cameron and Clarke who are using the situation to try to reverse their defeat in the Referendum," Ian

"You've laid out some good reasons but as you state, both the Conservative and Labour vote increased...... why?
Because of a huge amount of tactical voting especially driven by social media.
A lot of the "Remainers" had been horrified about the way that she'd embraced a Hard Brexit and even though Labour supported Brexit, they felt that not voting Tory would potentially hinder this outcome.
Labour need to bear this in mind too.
As a lot of people like me "lent" them their vote," Paul, Newcastle-under-Lyme

"Was there any evidence to suggest that tactical voting also played a part in the demise of the Conservative majority?
Were voters were more likely to vote for their second choice party if it meant stopping a Tory candidate from winning their constituency?
Clearly this could have been a case in constituencies where non-contest agreements were forged e.g.
Brighton Pavilion (Caroline Lucas), and in Twickenham where there was an absence of any campaign leaflets from any parties other than Lib Dems and Conservatives," John, London

I am surprised by your list of reasons for the Conservative election results.
For me this is very much about Brexit and Theresa May's stance.
She was a remainer but since being elected has used a rhetoric which concerns much of the UK population.
So this result is a protest against hard Brexit which will damage the UK economy beyond repair.
It is also the young peoples's recognition that their vote matters.
Had they voted in the referendum the result would have been remain, and they are angry and want their voices heard, Louise, Hampshire

"The media, including the BBC, displayed an attitude of sneering contempt towards Jeremy Corbyn ever since he was elected Labour Party leader right up to the recent election campaign.
Even the Guardian only endorsed Corbyn at the last minute, when it sensed which way the tide was running.
This must raise serious questions about how 'free' our media really are, and who plots their editorial course.
Time for another independent enquiry, perhaps?," John, Coventry

"Another nail in the coffin of May's majority is her too-cosy relationship with Trump and particularly her failure to unreservedly condemn him for pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement.
Saying that she was 'disappointed' was nowhere near strong enough," Ron, Cambridgeshire

"It will be a rare day a Conservative calls another election without a 35 point lead in the polls.
No wonder Labour is cambering for another election, Labour would rather enjoy another election in the next six months.
Whereas, as a postman, I would not."
Paul, Lincolnshire

Everyone is tired of austerity, even those who are managing well.
It's interesting how many of the affluent, metropolitan elite voted Labour, even though they were the ones who would be paying the bulk of the extra taxes.
Whether they would have voted the same way if they'd thought he actually stood a chance of winning is a different question.
Paul, London
Autumn sees Britain's political parties gathering by the sea - or in big city conference centres - here's a round-up of this year's, which will be updated as they happen.
Labour - 24-27 September in Brighton

Image copyright PA

Labour's gathering in Brighton felt at times like a victory rally, as Jeremy Corbyn's supporters celebrated the party's better-than-expected general election result.
Delegates approved changes to the way leaders are elected, which could make it easier to elect a left-wing successor to Mr Corbyn.
There was a row about Brexit, with moderate MPs, who want Mr Corbyn to commit to keeping the UK in the single market and customs union, feeling they had been denied a vote on this issue and the chance to debate it more fully.
And shadow chancellor John McDonnell caused a stir when he warned Labour must prepare for all eventualities in government, including a possible run on the pound.
But Mr Corbyn got through the week with his newfound dominance of the party further entrenched, as he prepared to tell the party faithful in his keynote speech they were on the "threshold of power".
Liberal Democrats - 16-19 September in Bournemouth

Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Liberal Democrat conference: Sir Vince Cable's full speech

The Liberal Democrats gathered by the seaside having modestly increased their tally of MPs to 12 in the recent general election, following an electoral drubbing in 2015 that left them with just eight.
In his keynote speech to conference, new leader Sir Vince Cable said he could lead the Lib Dems back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
Conservatives - 1-4 October in Manchester

Image copyright PA

The Conservatives continue a trend over recent years for urban - as opposed to seaside - conferences with a return to Manchester.
Prime Minister Theresa May took what seemed a reasonably safe gamble when she called an election earlier this year, with her party well ahead of Labour in the opinion polls.
However, while the Conservatives increased their vote share they lost their majority in Parliament, after a much-criticised campaign.
The government now needs the support of Northern Ireland's 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to be sure of winning Commons votes.
Party members will gather with Mrs May in a weakened position and questions over cabinet unity on Brexit - prompted most recently by Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - dominating the headlines.
UKIP - 29-30 September in Torquay

Image copyright PA

UKIP members meet for a two-day conference which will see the winner of the party's latest leadership election announced.
UKIP's share of the vote in the general election collapsed to just 1.8%, prompting the resignation of then-leader Paul Nuttall.
Since UK voters backed leaving the EU in a referendum in 2016, the party which focused on getting the UK out of the EU has struggled to broaden its appeal.
Former leader Nigel Farage ruled out a return but 11 candidates are vying for the party's top job.
Green Party - 7-10 October in Harrogate

Image copyright Green Party

The Green Party of England and Wales achieved just a 1.6% share of the vote in the general election, though the party's sole MP, Caroline Lucas, retained her seat in Brighton Pavilion with an increased share of the vote.
Ms Lucas is leader of the party alongside Jonathan Bartley in a job-share arrangement, after the two ran for the leadership on a joint ticket.
According to the party's website, there will be a "co-leaders' speech" to conference.
SNP - 8-10 October in Glasgow

Image copyright AFP

After a stunning general election result in 2015 - when the party won 56 out of 59 Scottish seats - the SNP returned 35 MPs in 2017.
It is still the dominant force in Scottish politics and forms a minority government in the Scottish Parliament - but it lost 12 Commons seats to the Conservatives, six seats to Labour and three to the Lib Dems.
Leader Nicola Sturgeon has called for a second referendum on Scottish independence to be held at the end of the Brexit process, although the date of it has been put back in the wake of the general election.
A majority of Scottish voters backed continuing EU membership in 2016 and Ms Sturgeon has said Brexit would mean Scotland leaving the EU "against our will".
Plaid Cymru - 20-21 October in Caernarfon

Image copyright Plaid Cymru

Plaid Cymru gained a seat in the general election, taking their Commons total to four.
The party has 11 seats in the Welsh Assembly - the same number as the Conservatives but behind Labour.
However, Assembly Member Neil McEvoy has been suspended from the Plaid Cymru group following a row over policy on council house sales.
Plaid backs a move by the Labour Welsh government to stop council house sales - but in a Facebook post, Mr McEvoy said right-to-buy was the "one realistic way" many working-class people had of owning their own home.
In an email to party members, leader Leanne Wood said he was "clearly breaching" Plaid's rulebook.
Here is an easy-to-understand guide to Brexit - beginning with the basics, then a look at the negotiations, followed by a selection of answers to questions we've been sent.
What's happening now?
The fourth round of monthly Brexit talks between the UK and the EU is taking place, with a decision due to be taken by the EU in October on whether or not enough progress has been made on "separation issues" to be able to start talks about the future relationship between the UK and the EU after Brexit.
Theresa May tried to speed up progress with a speech in Florence, Italy, but EU figures say not enough progress has been made yet.
What does Brexit mean?
It is a word that has become used as a shorthand way of saying the UK leaving the EU - merging the words Britain and exit to get Brexit, in a same way as a possible Greek exit from the euro was dubbed Grexit in the past.
Why is Britain leaving the European Union?
A referendum - a vote in which everyone (or nearly everyone) of voting age can take part - was held on Thursday 23 June, 2016, to decide whether the UK should leave or remain in the European Union.
Leave won by 51.9% to 48.1%.
The referendum turnout was 71.8%, with more than 30 million people voting.
Find the result in your area

What was the breakdown across the UK?
England voted for Brexit, by 53.4% to 46.6%.
Wales also voted for Brexit, with Leave getting 52.5% of the vote and Remain 47.5%.
Scotland and Northern Ireland both backed staying in the EU.
Scotland backed Remain by 62% to 38%, while 55.8% in Northern Ireland voted Remain and 44.2% Leave.
See the results in more detail.
What changed in government after the referendum?
Image copyright PA

Britain got a new Prime Minister - Theresa May.
The former home secretary took over from David Cameron, who announced he was resigning on the day he lost the referendum.
Like Mr Cameron, Mrs May was against Britain leaving the EU but she played only a very low-key role in the campaign and was never seen as much of an enthusiast for the EU.
She became PM without facing a full Conservative leadership contest after her key rivals from what had been the Leave side pulled out.
Where does Theresa May stand on Brexit?
Theresa May was against Brexit during the referendum campaign but is now in favour of it because she says it is what the British people want.
Her key message has been that "Brexit means Brexit" and she triggered the two year process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
She set out her negotiating goals in a letter to the EU council president Donald Tusk.
She outlined her plans for a transition period after Brexit in a big speech in Florence, Italy.
How did the snap election change things?
Image copyright Getty Images

Theresa May surprised everyone after the 2017 Easter Bank Holiday by calling an election for 8 June (it had been due in 2020).
She said she wanted to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations with European leaders.
She said Labour, the SNP and other opposition parties - and members of the House of Lords - would try to block and frustrate her strategy.
However Mrs May did not increase her party's seats in the Commons and she ended up weakened, having to rely on support from the 10 MPs from Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.
You can get more detail on the 2017 election here.
What has happened to the UK economy since the Brexit vote?
David Cameron, his Chancellor George Osborne and many other senior figures who wanted to stay in the EU predicted an immediate economic crisis if the UK voted to leave and it is true that the pound slumped the day after the referendum - and remains around 10% lower against the dollar and 15% down against the euro.
But predictions of immediate doom were wrong, with the UK economy estimated to have grown 1.8% in 2016, second only to Germany's 1.9% among the world's G7 leading industrialised nations.
UK growth has slowed so far in 2017, but the economy is still expanding.
Inflation has risen since June 2016 to stand at 2.6%, but unemployment has continued to fall, to stand at a 42 year low of 4.4%.
Annual house price increases have fallen from 9.4% in June 2016 but were still at an inflation-beating 4.7% in the year to May 2017, according to official ONS figures.
Brexit talks are under way

They finally, officially, started on 19 June, 2017.
Here's a picture from that first session:

Image copyright Reuters

The UK and EU negotiating teams are scheduled to meet face-to-face for one week each month.
Their first tasks are trying to get an agreement on the rights of UK and EU citizens after Brexit, reaching a figure for the amount of money the UK will need to pay on leaving, the so-called "divorce bill", and what happens to the Northern Ireland border.
You can find out more about the talks here.
What is the European Union?
The European Union - often known as the EU - is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries (click here if you want to see the full list).
It began after World War Two to foster economic co-operation, with the idea that countries which trade together are more likely to avoid going to war with each other.
It has since grown to become a "single market" allowing goods and people to move around, basically as if the member states were one country.
It has its own currency, the euro, which is used by 19 of the member countries, its own parliament and it now sets rules in a wide range of areas - including on the environment, transport, consumer rights and even things such as mobile phone charges.
Click here for a beginners' guide to how the EU works.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How does the European Union work?
What is Article 50?
Article 50 is a plan for any country that wishes to exit the EU.
It was created as part of the Treaty of Lisbon - an agreement signed up to by all EU states which became law in 2009.
Before that treaty, there was no formal mechanism for a country to leave the EU.
It's pretty short - just five paragraphs - which spell out that any EU member state may decide to quit the EU, that it must notify the European Council and negotiate its withdrawal with the EU, that there are two years to reach an agreement - unless everyone agrees to extend it - and that the exiting state cannot take part in EU internal discussions about its departure.
What date will the UK will leave the EU?
For the UK to leave the EU it had to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which gives the two sides two years to agree the terms of the split.
Theresa May triggered this process on 29 March, meaning the UK is scheduled to leave on Friday, 29 March 2019.
It can be extended if all 28 EU members agree, but at the moment all sides are focusing on that date as being the key one.
What's going to happen to all the EU laws in force in the UK?
The Conservative government has introduced the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill to Parliament.
If passed, it will end the primacy of EU law in the UK.
This "Great Repeal Bill" as it has been called, is supposed to incorporate all EU legislation into UK law in one lump, after which the government will decide over a period of time which parts to keep, change or remove.
The government is facing claims from Remain supporting MPs that it is giving itself sweeping powers to change legislation without proper Parliamentary scrutiny.
Read a full guide to the bill.
What is the Labour Party's position on Brexit?
Labour's position on Brexit was tweaked in mid-August, when the shadow Brexit secretary, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that the party now wanted to keep the UK in the single market and a customs union during a transition that could last for up to four years.
Labour would also accept free movement of people, payments into the EU budget and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice during the transition.
This is a considerably "softer" version of Brexit than the one advocated by the government, but there are still divisions within the party about whether the UK should try to stay in the single market in the longer term.
What do 'soft' and 'hard' Brexit mean?
These terms have increasingly been used as debate focused on the terms of the UK's departure from the EU.
There is no strict definition of either, but they are used to refer to the closeness of the UK's relationship with the EU post-Brexit.
So at one extreme, "hard" Brexit could involve the UK refusing to compromise on issues like the free movement of people even if meant leaving the single market.
At the other end of the scale, a "soft" Brexit might follow a similar path to Norway, which is a member of the single market and has to accept the free movement of people as a result of that.
What is the single market?
The single market is seen by its advocates as the EU's biggest achievement and one of the main reasons it was set up in the first place.
Britain was a member of a free trade area in Europe before it joined what was then known as the common market.
In a free trade area countries can trade with each other without paying tariffs - but it is not a single market because the member states do not have to merge their economies together.
The European Union single market, which was completed in 1992, allows the free movement of goods, services, money and people within the European Union, as if it was a single country.
It is possible to set up a business or take a job anywhere within it.
The idea was to boost trade, create jobs and lower prices.
But it requires common law-making to ensure products are made to the same technical standards and imposes other rules to ensure a "level playing field".
Critics say it generates too many petty regulations and robs members of control over their own affairs.
Mass migration from poorer to richer countries has also raised questions about the free movement rule.
Theresa May has ruled out the UK staying in the single market.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has said continued membership of the single has to be an option in negotiations with Brussels.
Read more: A free trade area v EU single market

What's the difference between the single market and the customs union?
The customs union ensures EU member states all charge the same import duties to countries outside the EU.
It allows member states to trade freely with each other, without burdensome customs checks at borders, but it limits their freedom to strike their own trade deals.
It is different from a free trade area.
In a free trade area no tariffs, taxes or quotas are charged on goods and services moving within the area but members are free to strike their own external trade deals.
The single market is a very different beast - it is not just about the trade in goods.
It allows the free movement of people, money and services as if the EU was a single country.
Who is negotiating Britain's exit from the EU?
Theresa May set up a government department, headed by veteran Conservative MP and Leave campaigner David Davis, to take responsibility for Brexit.
Former defence secretary, Liam Fox, who also campaigned to leave the EU, was given the new job of international trade secretary and Boris Johnson, who was a leader of the official Leave campaign, is foreign secretary.
These three are each set to play roles in negotiations with the EU and seek out new international agreements, although it would be Mrs May, as prime minister, who would have the final say.
Who's who guide to both sides' negotiators.
How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU?
The Article 50 process lasts two years so the intention is for the UK to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
EU law still stands in the UK until it ceases being a member.
But there is currently uncertainty about how final the break will be on that day - a number of UK and EU figures back the idea of having a "transition" period of up to three years to allow a smooth implementation of whatever Brexit deal is negotiated and minimise disruption to businesses and holidaymakers etc.
Why might Brexit take so long?
Unpicking 43 years of treaties and agreements covering thousands of different subjects was never going to be a straightforward task.
It is further complicated by the fact that it has never been done before and negotiators will, to some extent, be making it up as they go along.
The post-Brexit trade deal is likely to be the most complex part of the negotiation because it needs the unanimous approval of more than 30 national and regional parliaments across Europe, some of whom may want to hold referendums.
So why can't the UK just cut all ties in March 2019?
The UK could cut all ties, but Theresa May and others would like to avoid such a "cliff-edge" where current regulations on things like cross-border trade and travel between the UK and the EU ends overnight.
They think it would harm the economy.
What is the focus of negotiations between the UK and EU?
The priority issues in negotiations are:

1) Agreeing what rights EU citizens already in the UK - and UK citizens living in the rest of the EU - will have after Brexit.
2) Agreeing a figure for the amount of money the UK has to pay the rest of the EU "to settle its accounts", when it leaves.
3) Working out what will happen on the border between Northern Ireland, when it is outside the EU, and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU.
The EU says it wants to make decent progress on these three issues before beginning talks about what the UK's relations with the EU will be like after Brexit.
Mrs May set out her negotiating priorities in the letter officially triggering the process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
Here's a guide to the key points.
How are the talks going?
There have been agreements on some technical points, but the chief EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said there had been no decisive progress on any of the main issues.
The UK's Brexit Secretary, David Davis, insists progress has been made.
The main sticking point at the moment is money - and the size of the bill the UK will pay to cover its outstanding obligations when it leaves.
The UK wants this to be as low as possible.
All the other countries in the EU want it to be as high as possible.
Because when the UK leaves, there will be a hole in the EU budget and they will have to cover the shortfall.
The UK government has published a series of papers setting out its position on issues such as future customs arrangements, and on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Government policy is now that the UK will leave the single market and the customs union on the day of Brexit, but that it will try to replicate existing customs arrangements during a time-limited transition period.
What happens if there is no deal with the EU?
Prime Minister Theresa May says leaving the EU with no deal whatsoever would be better than signing the UK up to a bad one.
Without an agreement on trade, the UK would have to operate under World Trade Organisation rules, which could mean customs checks and tariffs on goods as well as longer border check for travellers.
There are also questions about what would happen to Britain's position as global financial centre and the land border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
There is also concern that Brits living abroad in the EU could lose residency rights and access to free emergency health care.
Here is a full explanation of what 'no deal' could mean

What happens to EU citizens living in the UK?
It has yet to be agreed.
All EU nationals lawfully resident in the UK for at least five years will be able to apply for "settled status" and be able to bring over spouses and children, under a 15-page proposal unveiled by Theresa May.
Mrs May says she wants to give reassurance and certainty to the 3.2 million EU citizens in the UK - as well as citizens of the three EEA countries and Switzerland.
But any deal on their future legal status and rights must be reciprocal and also give certainty to the 1.2 million British expats living on the continent after the UK leaves the EU - expected to be on 29 March 2019, she says.
Michel Barnier, who is leading the Brexit negotiations for the EU, said the UK's proposals did not go far enough and he wanted the same level of protection citizens currently have under EU law.
He has demanded more clarity and ambition from the UK government.
The key points of the UK's proposals are:

Those granted settled status will be able to live, work, study and claim benefits just as they can now

The cut-off date for eligibility is undecided but will be between 29 March 2017 and 29 March 2019

Family members of EU citizens living abroad will be able to return and apply for settled status

EU nationals in the UK for less than five years at the specified date will be able to continue living and working in the UK

Once resident for five years, they can apply for settled status

Those arriving after the cut-off point will be able to stay temporarily

But there should be "no expectation" they will be granted permanent residence

A period of "blanket residence permission" may apply to give officials time to process applications to stay in the UK

The Home Office will no longer require evidence that EU citizens who weren't working held "comprehensive sickness insurance"

Labour has said it would guarantee the rights of of EU citizens living in the UK to stay there on "day one" of a Labour government.
EU nationals with a right to permanent residence, which is granted after they have lived in the UK for five years, should not see their rights affected after Brexit.
What happens to UK citizens working in the EU?
A lot depends on the kind of deal the UK agrees with the EU.
If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions on EU nationals, then other countries could reciprocate, meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work.
What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK

Any EU citizen already living and working in the UK will be able to carry on working and living in the UK after Brexit.
The current plan is that even after Brexit, people from the EU will be able to move to work in the UK during a "transition" phase of up to three years.
However they will have to register.
A permanent proposal for post-Brexit immigration is not likely to be known for a few months yet, although it is widely expected that there will be a work permit system along the lines of that for non-EU nationals.
What does the fall in the value of the pound mean for prices in the shops?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shoppers will need to keep a close eye on how much they are spending

People travelling overseas from the UK have found their pounds are buying fewer euros or dollars after the Brexit vote.
Even if the pound regains some of its value, currency experts expect it in the longer term to remain at least 10% below where it was when the referendum happened.
This means exports should get a boost as UK goods will be cheaper, but imported goods will get more expensive - some price rises for food, clothing and homeware goods have been seen.
The latest UK inflation figures have the rate at 2.6%, above the target level, but not out of kilter with recent years.
Will immigration be cut?
Image copyright PA

Prime Minister Theresa May has said one of the main messages she has taken from the Leave vote is that the British people want to see a reduction in immigration.
She has said this will be a focus of Brexit negotiations as she remains committed to getting net migration - the difference between the numbers entering and leaving the country - down to a "sustainable" level, which she defines as being below 100,000 a year.
The rate of increase in the size of Britain's population has slowed significantly since the Brexit vote.
This has largely been driven by an increase in emigration from the UK by citizens of Poland and the other East and Central European countries.
There were still 246,000 more people coming to live in the UK than leaving in the year to March 2017, according to the latest estimates - some way above the government's target of 100,000.
Could there be a second referendum?
It seems highly unlikely.
Both the Conservatives and the Labour Party have ruled out another referendum, arguing that it would be an undemocratic breach of trust with the British people who clearly voted to Leave.
Will MPs get a vote on the Brexit deal?
Theresa May has promised there will be a Commons and Lords vote to approve whatever deal the UK and the rest of the EU agree at the end of the two year process.
This vote is currently proposed as a "take it or leave it" one.
Labour wants the vote to have the option of sending the UK team back to renegotiate.
It is worth mentioning that any deal also has to be agreed by the European Parliament - with British MEPs getting a chance to vote on it there.
Will I need a visa to travel to the EU?
The UK government wants to keep visa-free travel to the UK for EU visitors after Brexit and it is hoping this will be reciprocated, meaning UK citizens will continue to be able to visit EU countries for short periods without seeking official permission to travel.
If visitors from EU countries wanted to work, study or settle in the UK they would have to apply for permission under the proposals.
No agreement has been reached yet, however.
If it is decided that EU citizens will need visas to come to the UK in the future, then UK citizens will need visas to travel to the EU.
Image copyright Reuters

Will I still be able to use my passport?
It is a British document - there is no such thing as an EU passport, so your passport will stay the same.
In theory, the government could, if it wanted, decide to change the colour, which is currently standardised for EU countries, says the BBC's Europe correspondent, Chris Morris.
Has any other member state ever left the EU?
No nation state has ever left the EU.
But Greenland, one of Denmark's overseas territories, held a referendum in 1982, after gaining a greater degree of self government, and voted by 52% to 48% to leave, which it duly did after a period of negotiation.
The BBC's Carolyn Quinn visited Greenland to find out how they did it.
What does this mean for Scotland?
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Nicola Sturgeon says a new independence referendum in Scotland is likely

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in the wake of the Leave result that it was "democratically unacceptable" that Scotland faced being taken out of the EU when it voted to Remain.
Ms Sturgeon has officially asked for permission for a second referendum to be held.
She had wanted the vote to be held between the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, but after losing seats at the 2017 general election she has put her plans on hold with no referendum likely until 2021.
Theresa May has said a second referendum should not be held during the Brexit process.
What does it mean for Northern Ireland?
The land border between Northern Ireland and EU member the Republic of Ireland is a key part of the Brexit talks.
There is currently a common travel area between the UK and the Republic.
Like Scotland, Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU in last year's referendum.
The result in Northern Ireland was 56% for Remain and 44% for Leave.
The UK government has published a paper setting out its vision for a post-Brexit border.
It wants to avoid returning to a "hard border" - that means no physical infrastructure, such as customs posts.
There would be no CCTV cameras or number plate recognition technology at the border, or set back from it.
Instead, the UK government is arguing for a wide-ranging exemption under which small and medium-sized businesses will not have to comply with any new customs tariffs.
If the proposals are accepted, customs officials envisage using a mix of technology and physical checks to monitor the compliance of bigger businesses engaged in international trade.
Critics say the proposals lack credible detail, with Labour deriding the plans for the border as "a fantasy frontier".
Sinn Fein, which was part of the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly before it was suspended, has called for a referendum on leaving the UK and joining the Republic of Ireland as soon as possible.
The Conservatives have rejected Sinn Fein's call, saying there was no evidence opinion had shifted in favour of a united Ireland.
How much has Brexit cost so far and how much will it cost by the end?
There is much debate about the long-term costs and benefits to the UK economy of Brexit - but what we do know for certain is that the EU wants the UK to settle any outstanding bills before it leaves.
There have been no official estimates published of the size of the bill, which covers things like pension payments to EU officials, the cost of relocating London-based EU agencies and outstanding EU budget commitments.
Various figures ranging from 50bn (44bn) to 100bn (88bn) euros have been bandied about but although the UK has agreed to meet its financial obligations, Brexit secretary David Davis has said: "We will not be paying 100bn."
The UK could leave without any Brexit "divorce bill" deal but that would probably mean everyone ending up in court.
If compromise can be achieved, and if payment of the bill were to be spread over many years, the amounts involved may not be that significant economically.
How will pensions, savings, investments and mortgages be affected?
During the referendum campaign, David Cameron said the so-called "triple lock" for state pensions would be threatened by a UK exit.
This is the agreement by which pensions increase by at least the level of earnings, inflation or 2.5% every year - whichever is the highest.
Theresa May had proposed ditching the 2.5% part of the lock in the party's election manifesto, but as part of the post-election deal with the DUP the triple lock was again guaranteed.
There was an early post-referendum cut in interest rates, which has helped keep mortgage and other borrowing rates low.
There are few signs yet that rising inflation have worried the Bank of England enough to consider raising interest rates.
But if that happened it would make mortgages and loans more expensive to repay - but would be good news for savers.
Will duty-free sales on Europe journeys return?
Image copyright Thinkstock

Journalists and writers on social media have greeted the reintroduction of duty-free sales as an "upside" or "silver lining" of Brexit.
As with most Brexit consequences, whether this will happen depends on how negotiations with the EU play out - whether the "customs union" agreement between Britain and the EU is ended or continued.
Will EHIC cards still be valid?
Image copyright Thinkstock

If you are already living in another EU country on the day the UK leaves the bloc, your EHIC card - which entitles travellers to state-provided medical help for any condition or injury that requires urgent treatment, in any other country within the EU, as well as several non-EU countries - will continue to work.
After that date, for EU citizens wishing to travel to the UK or UK citizens wishing to travel to the EU, it is unclear about what will happen because no deal has yet been reached.
Read more here.
Will cars need new number plates?
Probably not, says BBC Europe correspondent Chris Morris, because there's no EU-wide law on vehicle registration or car number places, and the EU flag symbol is a voluntary identifier and not compulsory.
The DVLA says there has been no discussion about what would happen to plates with the flag if the UK voted to leave.
Could MPs block an EU exit?
Could the necessary legislation pass the Commons, given that a lot of MPs in the current Parliament - all SNP and Lib Dems, nearly all Labour and many Conservatives - were in favour of staying?
The referendum result is not legally binding - Parliament still has to pass the laws that will get Britain out of the 28 nation bloc, starting with the repeal of the 1972 European Communities Act.
The withdrawal agreement also has to be ratified by Parliament - the House of Lords and/or the Commons could vote against ratification, according to a House of Commons library report.
So in theory they could block the UK's EU exit.
But in practice that is seen as very unlikely given that a majority of people voted for Brexit in the referendum.
Will leaving the EU mean we don't have to abide by the European Court of Human Rights?
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is not a European Union institution.
It was set up by the Council of Europe, which has 47 members including Russia and Ukraine.
So quitting the EU will not exempt the UK from its decisions.
The Conservatives are committed to sticking with the Human Rights Act which requires UK courts to treat the ECHR as setting legal precedents for the UK during the Brexit process.
There have been longstanding plans to repeal the act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.
What about the European Court of Justice?
The Court of Justice of the European Union - to give it its full name - is the EU's highest legal authority.
It is based in Luxembourg.
It is an entirely different thing to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).
It is the ECHR not the ECJ that has often upset British politicians by making it harder, for example, to deport terrorist suspects.
The ECJ interprets and enforces the rules of the single market, settling disputes between member countries over issues like free movement and trade.
It is at the centre of pretty much everything the EU does.
Prime Minister Theresa May has vowed that Britain will not be under the "direct" jurisdiction of the ECJ after Brexit.
But the UK government has not ruled out remaining under its jurisdiction during the Brexit transition period that is planned after March 2019.
After that, there will need to be a new mechanism for settling disputes between the UK and the EU but what form that take has yet to be decided.
There has been talk of an ombudsman, or some other third party, being appointed to settle disagreements.
The UK has set out some ideas in a position paper, which was criticised for being too "vague".
The EU is insisting that its citizens in the UK should continue to enjoy the legal protection of the ECJ even after Brexit, guaranteeing their right to work and access to benefits among other things.
This is a major sticking point in the negotiations, with the UK saying EU citizens living in the UK should be subject to British law only.
Will the UK be able to rejoin the EU in the future?
BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says the UK would have to start from scratch with no rebate, and enter accession talks with the EU.
Every member state would have to agree to the UK re-joining.
But she says with elections looming elsewhere in Europe, other leaders might not be generous towards any UK demands.
New members are required to adopt the euro as their currency, once they meet the relevant criteria, although the UK could try to negotiate an opt-out.
Who wanted the UK to leave the EU?
The UK Independence Party, which received nearly four million votes - 13% of those cast - in the 2015 general election, but who saw their vote collapse to about a quarter of that at this year's election, has campaigned for many years for Britain's exit from the EU.
They were joined in their call during the referendum campaign by about half the Conservative Party's MPs, including Boris Johnson and five members of the then Cabinet.
A handful of Labour MPs and Northern Ireland party the DUP were also in favour of leaving.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to leave?
They said Britain was being held back by the EU, which they said imposed too many rules on business and charged billions of pounds a year in membership fees for little in return.
They also wanted the UK to make all of its own laws again, rather than being created through shared decision making with other EU nations.
Immigration was also a big issue for Brexit supporters, They wanted Britain to take back full control of its borders and reduce the number of people coming here to live and/or work.
One of the main principles of EU membership is "free movement", which means you don't need to get a visa to go and live in another EU country.
The Leave campaign also objected to the idea of "ever closer union" between EU member states and what they see as moves towards the creation of a "United States of Europe".
Who wanted the UK to stay in the EU?
Then Prime Minister David Cameron was the leading voice in the Remain campaign, after reaching an agreement with other European Union leaders that would have changed the terms of Britain's membership had the country voted to stay in.
He said the deal would give Britain "special" status and help sort out some of the things British people said they didn't like about the EU, like high levels of immigration - but critics said the deal would make little difference.
Sixteen members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet, including the woman who would replace him as PM, Theresa May, also backed staying in.
The Conservative Party was split on the issue and officially remained neutral in the campaign.
The Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru, the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats were all in favour of staying in.
The then US president Barack Obama also wanted Britain to remain in the EU, as did the leaders of other EU nations such as France and Germany.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to stay?
Those campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU said it got a big boost from membership - it makes selling things to other EU countries easier and, they argued, the flow of immigrants, most of whom are young and keen to work, fuels economic growth and helps pay for public services.
They also said Britain's status in the world would be damaged by leaving and that we are more secure as part of the 28 nation club, rather than going it alone.
What about businesses?
Big business - with a few exceptions - tended to be in favour of Britain staying in the EU because it makes it easier for them to move money, people and products around the world.
Given the crucial role of London as a financial centre, there's interest in how many jobs may be lost to other hubs in the EU.
Some UK exporters say they've had increased orders or enquiries because of the fall in the value of the pound.
Others are less optimistic, fearing products for the European market may have to be made at plants in the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Boris Johnson was one of the most prominent Leave campaigners

Who led the rival sides in the campaign?
Britain Stronger in Europe - the main cross-party group campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU was headed by former Marks and Spencer chairman Lord Rose.
It was backed by key figures from the Conservative Party, including Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne, most Labour MPs, including party leader Jeremy Corbyn and Alan Johnson, who ran the Labour In for Britain campaign, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru, the Alliance party and the SDLP in Northern Ireland, and the Green Party.
Who funded the campaign: Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to remain : The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
: The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Vote Leave - A cross-party campaign that has the backing of senior Conservatives such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnson plus a handful of Labour MPs, including Gisela Stuart and Graham Stringer, and UKIP's Douglas Carswell and Suzanne Evans, and the DUP in Northern Ireland.
Former Tory chancellor Lord Lawson and SDP founder Lord Owen were also involved.
It had a string of affiliated groups such as Farmers for Britain, Muslims for Britain and Out and Proud, a gay anti-EU group, aimed at building support in different communities.
Who funded the campaign: Vote Leave raised 2.78m.
Its largest supporter was businessman Patrick Barbour, who gave 500,000.
Former Conservative Party treasurer Peter Cruddas gave a 350,000 donation and construction mogul Terence Adams handed over 300,000.
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to leave: UKIP leader Nigel Farage was not part of Vote Leave.
His party ran its own campaign.
The Trade Union and Socialist Coalition also ran its own out campaign.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Will the EU still use English?
Yes, says BBC Europe editor Katya Adler.
There will still be 27 other EU states in the bloc, and others wanting to join in the future, and the common language tends to be English - "much to France's chagrin", she says.
Will Brexit harm product safety?
Probably not, is the answer.
It would depend on whether or not the UK decided to get rid of current safety standards.
Even if that happened any company wanting to export to the EU would have to comply with its safety rules, and it's hard to imagine a company would want to produce two batches of the same products.
Here are a selection of questions sent in - you can ask yours via the form at the end of this page

Which MPs were for staying and which for leaving?
The good news for Edward, from Cambridge, who asked this question, is we have been working on exactly such a list.
Click here for the latest version.
How much does the UK contribute to the EU and how much do we get in return?
In answer to this query from Nancy from Hornchurch - the UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out.
Only France and Germany contribute more.
In 2014/15, Poland was the largest beneficiary, followed by Hungary and Greece.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out

The UK also gets an annual rebate that was negotiated by Margaret Thatcher and money back, in the form of regional development grants and payments to farmers, which added up to 4.6bn in 2014/15.
According to the latest Treasury figures, the UK's net contribution for 2014/15 was 8.8bn - nearly double what it was in 2009/10.
The National Audit Office, using a different formula which takes into account EU money paid directly to private sector companies and universities to fund research, and measured over the EU's financial year, shows the UK's net contribution for 2014 was 5.7bn.
Read more number crunching from Reality Check.
If I retire to Spain or another EU country will my healthcare costs still be covered?
David, from East Sussex, is worried about what will happen to his retirement plans.
This is one of those issues where it is not possible to say definitively what would happen.
At the moment, the large British expat community in Spain gets free access to Spanish GPs and their hospital treatment is paid for by the NHS.
After they become permanent residents Spain pays for their hospital treatment.
In some other EU countries such as France expats of working age are expected to pay the same healthcare costs as locals but once they reach retirement age their medical bills are paid by the NHS.
If Britain remains in the single market, or the European Economic Area as it is known, it might be able to continue with this arrangement, according to a House of Commons library research note.
If Britain has to negotiate trade deals with individual member states, it may opt to continue paying for expats' healthcare through the NHS or decide that they would have to cover their own costs if they continue to live abroad, if the country where they live declines to do so.
What will happen to protected species?
Dee, from Launceston, wanted to know what would happen to EU laws covering protected species such as bats in the event of Britain leaving the EU.
The answer is that they would remain in place, initially at least.
After the Leave vote, the government will probably review all EU-derived laws in the two years leading up to the official exit date to see which ones to keep or scrap.
The status of Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection Areas, which are designated by the EU, would be reviewed to see what alternative protections could be applied.
The same process would apply to European Protected Species legislation, which relate to bats and their habitats.
The government would want to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the repeal of EU laws before new UK laws are in place - it would also continue to abide by other international agreements covering environmental protection.
How much money will the UK save through changes to migrant child benefits and welfare payments?
Martin, from Poole, in Dorset, wanted to know what taxpayers would have got back from the benefit curbs negotiated by David Cameron in Brussels.
We don't exactly know because the details were never worked out.
HM Revenue and Customs suggested about 20,000 EU nationals receive child benefit payments in respect of 34,000 children in their country of origin at an estimated cost of about 30m.
But the total saving would have been significantly less than that because Mr Cameron did not get the blanket ban he wanted.
Instead, payments would have been linked to the cost of living in the countries where the children live.
David Cameron said as many as 40% of EU migrant families who come to Britain could lose an average of 6,000 a year of in-work benefits when his "emergency brake" was applied.
The DWP estimated between 128,700 and 155,100 people would be affected.
But the cuts would have been phased in.
New arrivals would not have got tax credits and other in-work benefits straight away but would have gradually gained access to them over a four year period at a rate that had not been decided.
The plan will never be implemented now.
Will we be barred from the Eurovision Song Contest?
Image copyright BBC/Guy Levy Image caption To participate in the Eurovision Song Contest countries need to be a member of the European Broadcasting Union, which is independent of the EU

Sophie from Peterborough, who asks the question, need not worry.
We have consulted Alasdair Rendall, president of the UK Eurovision fan club, who says: "All participating countries must be a member of the European Broadcasting Union.
The EBU - which is totally independent of the EU - includes countries both inside and outside of the EU, and also includes countries such as Israel that are outside of Europe.
Indeed the UK started participating in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1957, 16 years before joining the then EEC."
What will happen to pet passports?
The answer to Alan Rippington's question, the European Commission says, is that pet passports will, like everything else, form part of the negotiations.
The UK introduced the pet passport scheme in 2000, replacing the previous quarantine laws.
It means you and your dog, cat or ferret can travel between the UK and the EU (and other participating countries) as long as it has a passport, a microchip and has been vaccinated against rabies.
Of course, until the UK actually leaves the EU, the scheme continues as normal.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "The UK has a long history of world-leading animal welfare and biosecurity standards, which we are committed to safeguarding and improving, securing the best deal for Britain as we leave the EU."
Has Brexit made house prices fall?
Image copyright PA

So far, the answer is no.
But there has been anecdotal evidence of house prices falling at the top of the market in Central London and the annual increase in the price of property has fallen from 9.4% at the time of the referendum to 4.9% a year later.
What is the 'red tape' that opponents of the EU complain about?
Ged, from Liverpool, suspects "red tape" is a euphemism for employment rights and environmental protection.
According to the Open Europe think tank, four of the top five most costly EU regulations are either employment or environment-related.
The UK renewable energy strategy, which the think-tank says costs 4.7bn a year, tops the list.
The working time directive (4.2bn a year) - which limits the working week to 48 hours - and the temporary agency workers directive (2.1bn a year), giving temporary staff many of the same rights as permanent ones - are also on the list.
Most of the EU-derived laws on the UK's statute books will be copied across into UK law so that businesses can continue to function on the day Britain leaves the EU, in March 2019.
Future governments will then be able to amend or scrap them.
Brexit may also generate "red tape" of its own - if the UK leaves the single market and the customs union, businesses could face more paperwork as they cross borders into EU countries.
Will Britain be party to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership?
Ste, in Bolton, asked about this.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - or TTIP - currently under negotiation between the EU and United States would create the biggest free trade area the world has ever seen.
Cheerleaders for TTIP, including former PM David Cameron, believed it could make American imports cheaper and boost British exports to the US to the tune of 10bn a year.
But many on the left, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, fear it will shift more power to multinational corporations, undermine public services, wreck food standards and threaten basic rights.
US President Donald Trump is not a fan of the TTIP agreement, which means it is now seen as unlikely to be agreed - but whatever happens, when the UK quits the EU it will not be part of TTIP and will have to negotiate its own trade deal with the US.
What impact will leaving the EU have on the NHS?
Paddy, from Widnes, wanted to know how leaving the EU will affect the number of doctors we have and impact the NHS.
This became an issue in the referendum debate after the Leave campaign claimed the money Britain sends to the EU, which it claimed was 350m a week, could be spent on the NHS instead.
The BBC's Reality Check team looked into this claim.
Before the vote Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned that leaving the EU would lead to budget cuts and an exodus of overseas doctors and nurses.
The Leave campaign dismissed his intervention as "scaremongering" and insisted that EU membership fees could be spent on domestic services like the NHS.
Since the referendum spending on the NHS has continued at the same level as planned.
EU citizens working for the NHS are expected to get the right to stay in the UK, although details on EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens elsewhere in the EU are yet to be finalised (see earlier answer).
Sally Miller bought a house in Spain nine years ago and plans to retire there in the next five years.
She asked how Brexit will affect this.
Image copyright Getty Images

The BBC's Kevin Connolly says:

The issue of free movement - the rights of EU citizens to live and work in the UK - was a huge issue in the Brexit referendum of course, and will be a big part of the exit negotiations.
We've heard quite a bit from the British side already with the government saying that securing the status and rights of EU nationals in the UK and UK nationals in the EU is one of the government's earliest priorities, and specifically that it is looking for a reciprocal deal.
So you might feel the mood music is encouraging but all we can say for sure is that, while there are no guarantees yet, it will be a big part of the Brexit negotiations to come.
Jonathan Eaton is a Briton living in the Netherlands with his wife, who is Dutch.
He asks what rights to benefits and housing he will have if he has to return to the UK.
Image copyright Getty Images

BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith says:

The short answer is there is no easy access to benefits.
As it stands at the moment, Brexit aside, you will have to pass what's known as a habitual residence test which was introduced in 1994 and applies to British citizens just as EU citizens.
The rules have been tightened up which means for some benefits, if you have been out of the country you can't even think about applying for the test for several months.
For example, when it comes to jobseeker's allowance, you cannot even take the test to apply for those benefits for three months.
And that was done to stop EU citizens coming here and just getting on benefits straight away.
After three months, you can take the test which looks at your English language skills, what sort of efforts you made to find work before coming to the UK.
It also considers how strong a tie you have to the UK, whether you have property or family here and what your intentions are in terms of staying and working, or returning.
But once you have taken the test, if you pass it then you should be eligible to apply for a range of benefits, as long as you meet the usual requirements in terms of income and showing you are looking for work.
That is likely to continue when we move fully on to Universal Credit.
The one sort of unknown in the whole system is what happens with Brexit negotiations, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of British nationals abroad.
And we simply don't know what that will involve and whether in any way that might impact on how soon you can apply for benefits when you come back to Britain.
Will I have to buy a new passport and driving licence, and will my rights to use them freely across Europe be taken away from me after Brexit, asks Francis Lee.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

At the moment UK passports carry the words European Union and British driving licences have the blue square with yellow flags of the EU.
That will presumably change after Brexit but it seems likely that the change will be phased in so that you'll simply get documents with the new design when the old ones expire.
That's what happened, I seem to remember, when the UK joined the EU.
Anything else would be expensive and risk flooding the system, after all.
The right to use them freely is an interesting question.
When we talk about restrictions on freedom of movement we generally mean the freedom to live and work in another country.
If Britain poses restrictions on the EU in that respect then it can expect some kind of response.
But in terms of tourism there are plenty of non-EU countries whose citizens can visit the UK for up to 90 days without a visa.
And, as part of the Brexit negotiations, you'd expect similar arrangements to be discussed for the UK.
Both sides need each others' tourists and, after all, if you can drive a car in the United States on a UK licence then it doesn't seem fanciful to assume that you'll be able to do the same in Europe in future.
It is very clear that the PM and the government want to leave the tyranny of the European Court of Justice.
Why has leaving the European Court of Human Rights (an organisation far more hated than the ECJ) been ignored, asks Barry Fryer.
Image copyright Getty Images

Kevin Connolly says:

Two different courts here of course, so two different bits of politics.
Crucially, the European Court of Human Rights is not an EU institution and that's why discussions about leaving it have not formed a key part of the Brexit debate.
The European Court of Justice - the ECJ - is one of the primary institutions of the European Union and administers EU law.
So, while it might have a role in supervising a future trade deal, part of the goal of Brexit was to remove the UK from the ECJ's jurisdiction.
The European Court of Human Rights which, as Barry points out, can be even more controversial, is a body set up not by the EU but by member states of the Council of Europe, a separate institution which contains countries that aren't EU members.
It's this court which has produced rulings which have been controversial in the UK, including blocking the extradition of Abu Qatada and establishing the right of serving prisoners to vote in elections - and leaving the EU won't change anything here.
Adrian Wallis runs a small electronics company and wants to know about export tariffs after Brexit, and what they'd mean for his business.
Kevin Connolly says:

As long as Britain has been in the EU we haven't really talked much about tariffs.
That's because all trade within the European Economic Area is tariff-free.
On top of that the EU has trade agreements with 52 other countries as well.
After Brexit, Britain is going to have to negotiate new deals all on its own.
That's both a problem and an opportunity.
For example you can use tariffs against foreign imports to protect businesses you care about, as the EU does with agricultural produce, but you do then run the risk of retaliation from your trading partners.
The key body in all of this is the World Trade Organisation and at the moment the UK is only a member via its membership of the EU.
Image copyright Thinkstock

One bit of good news is that the UK will automatically become a member in its own right as soon as it leaves the EU.
That matters because in the period when the UK is negotiating a new trade deal with the EU, and that could take years, trade would be conducted under WTO rules.
At the moment, for non-food items, that implies an average tariff of about 2.3%.
But suppose the EU were to impose a 10% tariff on UK car imports, for example.
Well, then the UK could impose the same tariff on German and French cars.
In theory, an economist would say that creates a situation where everyone has an incentive to sort out a better deal for their consumers.
The snag is that these things take years, if not decades.
They tend to be done on a country-by-country and sector-by-sector basis.
So if Adrian is waiting to find out the implications for his business, then I'm afraid he's going to have to be patient.
Maybe very, very patient.
What impact will leaving the European Union have on the UK's long term political influence in Europe, asks Peter Hoare.
Norman Smith says:

There are basically two views on what will happen in terms of clout when outside the EU.
View one is that the UK projects power and influence in the world, working through organisations such as the EU and that on our own it'll be a much diminished force.
View two is that unencumbered by the other 27 members, the UK can get on with things and start adopting a much more independent, self-confident, assertive role on the world stage.
My take is that not much is probably going to change.
I say that because the UK'll still be a member of significant organisations such as the UN and Nato, and will still be co-operating with EU partners.
For example, there will still be close ties on defence with the French.
The UK will still be the same old Britain, will still have significant military force, will still be a wealthy country and will still be a nuclear power, so I don't think people will suddenly think the UK's an entirely different country.
Are other countries likely to leave the EU and if so could we start a new free trade area, asks David John.
Kevin Connolly says:

Funnily enough, I was discussing this question just the other day with a French politician, a conservative and a real Europhile, and he said he thought if there was a free vote in France tomorrow, as the right wing National Front would like, that the French would vote to leave.
But generally speaking I can't see much prospect of a tidal wave of insurrectionist, exitism sweeping the continent.
When a country like Ireland has a spat with the EU about tax, for example, it does annoy Irish politicians, but most mainstream leaders in the Europe have grown up with the idea that the EU has brought peace and prosperity for decades.
Image copyright Getty Images

Lots of them see plenty that irritates them about the European Union, but they mainly argue that the benefits hugely outweigh the irritations.
And in countries where you do find Euroscepticism, such as Poland and Hungary, there is also a healthy awareness that there are huge financial benefits to membership.
As for the future, we will see.
If the UK were to get a fantastic Brexit deal then maybe others would be tempted to go.
But the truth is, lots of European politicians want the EU to be tough with Britain precisely to stop other countries from following it through the door.
As to Britain forming its own free trade area, I think it seems an awfully long shot and on balance it is unlikely, not least because there are not that many free countries around available to recruit into another free trade area.
Britain could perhaps join the Free Trade Association along with Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland.
But of course it would be joining under existing rules, so the likeliest future for a post-Brexit UK, I think, is a future where it tries to do the best deal possible with the EU and then looks around for other free trade deals.
But that would fall short of creating a free trade area based on the UK itself.
What will happen to the borders in Gibraltar and Northern Ireland, asks Nigel May.
Kevin Connolly says:

I think the question of what is going to happen to borders after Brexit is one of the most difficult of the lot.
Since 1985 when Spain joined the EU, it has basically been prevented from closing the border with Gibraltar as a way of applying pressure to the British territory.
In fact, 12,000 Spanish people cross into the territory to work every day and the area of Spain around Gibraltar is a pretty depressed area so they are important jobs.
On the other hand, the Spanish have talked openly about this being an opportunity to get Gibraltar back.
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, its minister of foreign affairs, said in September the UK's vote to leave the EU was "a unique historical opportunity in more than three hundred years to get Gibraltar back".
But at a minimum, as things stand, it looks to me as though they could certainly re-impose border controls if they chose to.
Image copyright Getty Images

The situation with Ireland's border is more complex.
For those of us for whom Northern Ireland is home, the total disappearance of military check points on the border is one of the most tangible daily reminders of the end of the Troubles and no one wants a border like that back.
But, when the day comes when Ireland is in the EU and the UK is not, then the Irish border of course is also going to be the UK's land border with the European Union.
Conservative leader Theresa May has said we don't see a return to the borders of the past, but the reality is that if Britain leaves the common customs area, then presumably some sort of checks are going to be necessary on that border.
And if the UK wants to stop Polish or Romanian migrant workers using Dublin airport as a back door into the UK, then it is going to have to do something about that too.
The UK has published a paper setting out its preferred options.
Of course, what it will all mean for towns and villages like Belleek and Belcoo in County Fermanagh, which more or less straddle the border, is hard to imagine.
How will access to healthcare change for expats living in the EU, asks Veronique Bradley, who lives in Italy.
Kevin Connolly says:

Healthcare is one of those issues that remains relatively simple as long as the UK remains in the EU.
It is just part of a range of citizens' rights that apply across the entire union.
After Brexit, I suppose there will be two possibilities.
The first and easiest would be that the negotiators come up with a reciprocal deal that keeps the current arrangements, or something a bit like them, in place.
If they don't, the situation will depend on the individual country where you live.
For the Bradleys in Italy, for example, residents from non-EU countries, and that will soon include the Brits, will have to finalise their residency status, acquire an Italian identity card and then apply for an Italian health insurance card.
If they visit the UK at the moment, access to the NHS for non-resident Brits is not straightforward unless you have a European health insurance card.
The right to treatment is based on residency, not on your tax status.
So, even if you live abroad and pay some British tax on a buy-to-let property for instance, you might find yourself getting a bill for any NHS treatment you end up getting while you are back in the UK.
What will happen to EU nationals who lived and worked in the UK and now receive a British state pension, asks Peter Barz, a German citizen living in the UK.
Norman Smith says:

If you are an EU national and you get a British state pension, nothing much should change, because the state pension is dependent not on where you come from, but on how long you have paid National Insurance contributions in the UK.
So it doesn't matter whether you come from Lithuania or Latvia or Transylvania or Timbuktu, what counts is how much you have paid in terms of National Insurance contributions.
There is one wrinkle though and that is that you have to have paid in for at least 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images

Under the current rules, if you are an EU citizen and haven't paid in for 10 years, you can point to any contributions you have made in your native country and say, "I paid in there", and that will count.
That works for EU countries and another 16 countries with which the UK has social security agreements.
Once we have left the EU, you will no longer be able to do that unless we negotiate new reciprocal agreements.
If we don't then potentially, if you have paid in fewer than than 10 years' worth of National Insurance contributions, you will not get a British state pension.
Is it possible to be both an EU citizen and not an EU citizen, asks Declan O'Neill, who holds an Irish passport.
Kevin Connolly says:

I should probably declare some sort of interest here as a dual Irish and British national myself.
Of course, anyone born in Northern Ireland has an absolute right to carry both passports.
Declan might be happy to know that this is one of the few questions where I can't see a downside as long as you are happy and comfortable carrying both passports.
Image copyright Getty Images

The Irish document means you continue to enjoy the benefits of EU citizenship, and the British passport will give you full rights in the UK at the same time.
Call it one of the clear joys of coming from Northern Ireland, alongside the rolling hills, rugged coastline and enjoyable breaks between the showers.
All you have to do is remember to carry the Irish passport when you are joining the EU citizens-only queue at the airport in future.
Is there a get-out clause for Article 50, asks Gillian Coates.
Norman Smith says:

I think the honest answer is you would have to be a legal eagle to answer this.
But my take on it is that legally it looks like once we trigger Article 50 we are locked in, and that is certainly how the European Parliament reads it.
And there is a view that if we were in this two-year process after triggering Article 50 and we wanted to get out of it, then ultimately that would be a decision for the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Thinkstock

However, in the real world I think it is likely to be rather different, whatever the legal protocol.
I think the truth is, if we were trundling along and decided it was all going to be catastrophic and we have got to pull up the handbrake pretty sharpish, a lot of other EU countries would be probably be laughing at us, but I think at the same time they would probably be quite pleased we weren't going.
So I think the short answer is: legally, it doesn't look so good if you want to get out of it, but politically, it probably can be done with the support of other European leaders.
Eric Degerland asks when UK passports are going to change.
Kevin Connolly says:

This takes us to the heart of an issue that lots of people really care about.
It will be a real and palpable sign of Brexit when there is a new UK passport without the words "European Union" on the front cover.
Sadly, the short answer is we don't really know when the change will come about.
Image copyright Getty Images

But we can say that the cheapest thing for the government to do would be to phase in the new passports as people's old ones expire.
So if you're looking forward to getting back that blue hard-back passport we had in the old days, you may have a long time to wait.
The BBC's Reality Check team answered some of your questions about Theresa May's plans for EU citizens living in the UK.
Will Irish citizens be exempt from this five-year residency requirement, and continue to be afforded equal treatment with UK nationals?
Yes, Irish citizens residing in the UK will not need to apply for settled status to protect their entitlements as the UK government is committed to protecting the Common Travel Area arrangements.
Would EU citizens still be able to move to the UK in the next two years until March 2019?
Yes, they would.
The UK is a member of the EU until it withdraws, so the freedom of movement rules will apply until then.
Why shouldn't British courts have full jurisdiction over the rights of EU citizens living in the UK?
Wasn't that the whole point of Brexit?
The UK government says the European Court of Justice will not have jurisdiction over EU citizens' rights.
The EU demands that it does.
This is an important sticking point in the Brexit negotiations.
How can a lifetime stay be guaranteed?
Could a future government change the law?
Once the UK leaves the EU, any future government will in principle be able to propose amendments to the rules and the UK Parliament would decide on the new law.
I plan to retire to France within the next two years and buy a property.
Will this be possible after Brexit?
You can buy property and retire anywhere in the world, subject to the rules of the country you are retiring in.
So, you'll be able to do that but we don't know what your exact rights will be until the UK and EU conclude the citizens' rights negotiations.
I'm an EU national living in the UK but my wife is from outside the EU.
Is her status going to change?
Your wife, as a family member of an eligible EU citizen who has been resident in the UK before we leave the EU, will also be eligible to apply for settled status with you, provided that she too meets the settlement criteria and has been in a genuine relationship with you while resident in the UK.
Theresa May has formed her new government after the Conservatives lost their majority in the general election.
The prime minister's room for manoeuvre in the reshuffle was limited when her party was left with 318 MPs and Labour had 262.
Here's what we know so far.
The list will be updated as new appointments are made.
Prime Minister - Theresa May

Image copyright Reuters

Theresa May stays as prime minister despite not achieving the mandate for Brexit she had called the election for.
The UK's second female PM took up the role after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the EU referendum result.
She had previously been home secretary for six years.
Theresa May: Full profile

Election 2017: Key points at-a-glance

First Secretary of State - Damian Green

Image copyright AFP

Damian Green has been promoted to a new role the prime minister did not have in her first cabinet - that of first secretary of state.
As the same time he also replaces Ben Gummer as minister for the Cabinet Office after Mr Gummer lost his seat in the election.
The move effectively makes the former work and pensions secretary, a friend and ally of Theresa May, her second in command.
It could see Mr Green standing in for Mrs May at PMQs when she is not available.
The role - which was previously held by George Osborne and, under Labour, Peter Mandelson - gives Mr Green seniority over other cabinet ministers.
Chancellor of the Exchequer - Philip Hammond

Image copyright PA

Philip Hammond remains as chancellor of the exchequer.
He was foreign secretary under David Cameron from 2014 to 2016, having previously served as defence secretary and transport secretary.
Mr Hammond, 61, is seen at Westminster as the ultimate safe pair of hands steering Britain's economy through the post-Brexit period ahead.
Sometimes mocked as "box office Phil" for what some see as his dull delivery, he forged a reputation in the shadow Treasury team as the Tories' public spending "axeman".
Foreign Secretary - Boris Johnson

Image copyright AFP

No change at the Foreign Office as Boris Johnson keeps his job.
Despite hints from some of the newspapers that Mr Johnson, 52, may turn his hand to trying to lead the party, he has categorically dismissed such claims.
Mr Johnson said that while the public would be wondering about the future of the current government, Mrs May had got the biggest Conservative mandate anyone had achieved for decades.
"I'm going to be backing her, and absolutely everybody I'm talking to is going to be backing her as well."
Home Secretary - Amber Rudd

Image copyright Reuters

Amber Rudd remains as home secretary despite only narrowly holding her seat as MP for Hastings and Rye.
During the election campaign, she stood in for the PM in the BBC's televised debate in May.
Ms Rudd was previously energy and climate change secretary, a position she held for just one year.
The former investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, aged 53, decided to enter politics in her 40s in order to get "a grip on her life".
Secretary of State for Exiting the EU - David Davis

Image copyright Reuters

David Davis keeps his job of secretary of state for exiting the European Union - or "Brexit secretary".
The role was created in July to take the lead in negotiating the UK's exit from the EU.
A veteran Eurosceptic, he has previously held the positions of Conservative party chairman and shadow deputy prime minister.
Between 2003 and 2008, he was the shadow home secretary under both Michael Howard and David Cameron.
Mr Davis, 68, lost to David Cameron in the 2005 Tory leadership contest.
Defence Secretary - Michael Fallon

Image copyright AFP

Michael Fallon has kept his job at the Ministry of Defence - a position the 65-year-old has held since 2014.
He was Conservative MP for Darlington from 1983 to 1992 - initially during Margaret Thatcher's time in Downing Street - and after leaving Parliament was later re-elected as MP for Sevenoaks in 1997.
A former Conservative Party deputy chairman, Mr Fallon has previously served as energy and business minister, and before that secretary of state for business and enterprise.
Secretary of State for International Trade - Liam Fox

Image copyright AFP

Liam Fox, 55, continues as the secretary of state for international trade.
He was made secretary of state for defence in 2010 but resigned in 2011 over allegations he had given a close friend, lobbyist Adam Werritty, access to the Ministry of Defence and allowed him to join official trips overseas.
Mr Fox stood in the leadership race against Theresa May but was eliminated in the first ballot after winning the support of just 16 MPs.
He told reporters he was "delighted" to keep the job he has held since July last year.
"It's now time for the whole of the Conservative party to rally behind the prime minister and get a government in the national interest."
Justice Secretary - David Lidington

Image copyright PA

Former Leader of the House of Commons David Lidington gets the job of justice secretary, replacing Liz Truss.
He had been Europe Minister since 2010 but moved across to aid the smooth running of the Commons in 2016.
The Cambridge history graduate and father-of-four has been MP for Aylesbury since 1992.
He previously worked for BP and mining firm Rio Tinto.
Leader of the House of Lords - Baroness Evans

Image copyright PA

Baroness Evans of Bowes Park keeps her job as the leader of the House of Lords.
When appointed in 2016, it was her first ministerial role since being ennobled by David Cameron in 2014.
She attended London's Henrietta Barnett School and Cambridge University before becoming deputy director of the Conservative research department, deputy director of the Policy Exchange think-tank and chief operating officer of the New Schools Network - the organisation which ran Michael Gove's free schools programme.
Health Secretary - Jeremy Hunt

Image copyright Reuters

Jeremy Hunt remains in his post despite the problems within the NHS.
He took over the health portfolio following a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, and at the time described the appointment as the "biggest privilege of my life".
But in a tweet he admitted there were "challenges ahead, but also huge opportunities to make our NHS even better".
Last year, Mr Hunt was locked in a battle with the British Medical Association over a new contract for junior doctors, which led to a series of strikes.
Education Secretary - Justine Greening

Image copyright PA

Justine Greening has kept her roles as education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
She is part of the most diverse Parliament yet as she openly defines herself as a lesbian.
At London Pride in 2016, the 48-year-old announced in a tweet she was in a same-sex relationship, saying "I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you're better off out!".
Ms Greening replaced Nicky Morgan at education in 2016, leaving her international development secretary post, which she was promoted to in 2011.
She has been MP for Putney since 2005.
Transport Secretary - Chris Grayling

Image copyright Reuters

Chris Grayling remains as transport secretary in Theresa May's cabinet.
The former Leader of the House has been dealing with Southern Rail's disrupted services, the question of Heathrow's third runway and the high speed rail link, HS2.
He also served as shadow transport secretary from December 2005 to 2007.
Culture Secretary - Karen Bradley

Image copyright Getty Images

Karen Bradley has kept her role as Culture, Media and Sport Secretary.
She had been working with Theresa May as a Home Office minister since 2014.
She was first elected MP for Staffordshire Moorlands in May 2010.
Environment Secretary - Michael Gove

Image copyright EPA

Michael Gove has made a comeback, with the prime minister bringing him back into cabinet and appointing him environment secretary.
In the 2016 reshuffle he was sacked as justice secretary and before that he served under David Cameron as education secretary and chief whip in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Despite campaigning alongside Boris Johnson for Brexit, he withdrew his support for Mr Johnson to be Conservative leader and prime minister, choosing instead to stand himself.
He was eliminated in the final round of voting by MPs, coming third.
Mr Gove's surprise move to stand for the leadership effectively dashed his colleague's hopes of winning and prompted Mr Johnson's withdrawal from the contest.
Work and Pensions Secretary - David Gauke

Image copyright AFP

A sideways step for David Gauke, with the PM appointing him as the new work and pensions secretary.
He was previously the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who attends cabinet but does not have a ministerial role.
Mr Gauke has been the MP for Hertfordshire South West since 2005.
He is a qualified solicitor and worked for a leading City firm until he was elected.
Communities Secretary - Sajid Javid

Image copyright AFP

Sajid Javid keeps his job as secretary of the department for communities and local government.
He held this position in 2014 before being appointed to business secretary a year later.
A former managing director of Deutsche Bank, Mr Javid has been MP for Bromsgrove in Worcestershire since 2010.
He stood on a "joint ticket" with Stephen Crabb for the leadership election, hoping to be chancellor if Mr Crabb had become PM.
Northern Ireland Secretary - James Brokenshire

Image copyright PA

James Brokenshire continues as the Northern Ireland Secretary.
He previously worked with the PM at the Home Office, where he was immigration minister.
From 2011 to 2015, he served as security minister at the Home Office with responsibility for domestic national security and counter-terrorism.
This included supporting the home secretary with oversight of the work of MI5 and the national police counter-terrorism network.
Mr Brokenshire's responsibilities also included the government's counter-terrorism strategy and he was part of the prime minister's "extremism taskforce".
He also led negotiations with the Jordanian government to secure the deportation of the radical cleric Abu Qatada.
Welsh Secretary - Alun Cairns

Image copyright PA

Alun Cairns, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, remains in his cabinet role as secretary of state for Wales.
The 46-year-old, who was born in Swansea and is a graduate of the University of Wales, Newport, was elected in 2010.
He worked in banking for a decade before his election to the Welsh Assembly.
Scottish Secretary - David Mundell

Image copyright Reuters

David Mundell will continue as secretary of state for Scotland.
He is one of 13 Scottish Conservatives to be in Parliament after this snap election.
Former prime minister David Cameron first appointed Mr Mundell to the post when he held his Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale seat for the third consecutive election in 2015.
In January 2015, Mr Mundell became the first openly-gay Conservative cabinet secretary.
Conservative Party chairman and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster - Patrick McLoughlin

Image copyright AFP

Patrick McLoughlin remains as the Conservative Party chairman and chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He left his role as transport secretary in 2016 but has been an MP since 1986.
The former miner also served as chief whip after being appointed to the role in David Cameron's first cabinet.
Business and Energy Secretary - Greg Clark

Image copyright PA

Greg Clark keeps his job as secretary of state of business, energy and industrial strategy.
The role, when it was created by Labour's Gordon Brown, was originally called the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Last year, it was merged into the new department and lost the "climate change" part of its name.
Environmentalists immediately expressed concern that the reshaping of departments showed the government was downgrading climate change as a priority.
International Development Secretary - Priti Patel

Image copyright Reuters

Priti Patel remains as International Development Secretary.
She was promoted from her role as employment minister, which she held for a year, in 2016.
Ms Patel became MP for Witham in 2010 and joined the front bench as a Treasury minister in 2014.
She is no stranger to controversy, having previously advocated bringing back the death penalty and was accused of "divide and rule politics" during the referendum campaign for claiming that "biased" immigration policy prevents curry chefs from outside the EU from working in the UK.
On her appointment, she immediately faced calls to guarantee the UK's legal commitment to spending 0.7% of GDP on overseas aid.
In other appointments:
Who is the biggest danger: Trump or Kim?
Attendees at the Labour Party conference are asked if Donald Trump or Kim Jong-un is the biggest danger to world peace.
Video

Party conferences can be tribal affairs with not a lot of love expressed for political rivals

Labour MP Laura Pidcock has "absolutely no intention" of being friends with Conservatives.
Daily Politics reporter Ellie Price used the unscientific test of the mood box and balls to see if Labour delegates could reach across the political divide.
Video

Labour was emerging from a leadership contest 12 months ago, and later saw Jeremy Corbyn close the gap on the Conservatives at the 2017 election.
Ahead of Mr Corbyn's third conference speech as party leader, BBC archive looks back over some of the highlights for him and his party in the last 12 months.
Nurses 'are really feeling the pinch'

Jane Carroll of the Royal College of Nursing in Wales says members are "very angry" and "very disgruntled" and considering their first ever strike over pay.
Video

People's views of Labour were changing, leaving it as the "real centre of gravity", Jeremy Corbyn has said.
Giving his third conference speech as leader, he spoke tor nearly 75 minutes at the gathering in Brighton.
Video

The Conservative government is guilty of "conscious cruelty" says Ken Loach, adding it was "one of the harshest governments this country has seen".
Challenged on the phrase by Daily Politics presenter Jo Coburn, the film-maker said: "Absolutely - I know what they have done."
They were speaking at the Labour Party conference in Brighton, when Mr Loach was asked why young people were attracted to Jeremy Corbyn's policies.
The Trump administration will allow no more than 45,000 refugees into the United States next year, officials said Tuesday, in what would be the lowest admissions level in more than a decade.
President Donald Trump is expected soon to announce the cap on refugee admissions following a lengthy debate within his administration about whether to go higher or lower.
The figure represents the maximum number of refugees the U.S. would be willing to accept.
The actual number of refugees who move to the United States could actually be much lower.
The administration had been considering a ceiling somewhere between 40,000 -- which the Department of Homeland Security recommended -- and 50,000, the State Department's preferred level, officials said.
The new figure appears to be a compromise that Cabinet officials felt would be palatable to the president.
Still, Trump's stated opposition to accepting large numbers of refugees and hesitation among others in his administration mean the U.S. may not intend to fill all 45,000 slots in the 2018 fiscal year that starts Sunday.
The U.S. hasn't taken in so few refugees in a single year since 2006, when 41,223 were allowed entry.
The Wall Street Journal first reported on the decision.
The paper said a decision is due by Saturday.
Senior administration officials must first consult with Congress, as required by law.
All of the officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to publicly discuss internal deliberations.
They said no decision was final until formally announced by the president.
The State Department declined to comment on potential figures ahead of a presidential announcement.
Trump has until Sunday to determine how many refugees to admit.
The U.S. welcomed 84,995 in fiscal year 2016, and former President Barack Obama had wanted to raise that number to 110,000 in 2017.
Worldwide, there were some 22.5 million refugees last year, according to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, with many more people internally displaced within their home countries.
The strong preference among aid groups and governments has been to seek conditions so refugees can return to their homes, rather than being permanently resettled in host countries.
Trump has made limiting immigration the centerpiece of his policy agenda.
He temporarily banned visitors from a handful of Muslim-majority nations, has rescinded an Obama-era executive action protecting young immigrants from deportation and insisted he'll build a wall along the southern border with Mexico.
Construction has begun in San Diego on eight prototypes for the border wall, Fox News reported.
During the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump pledged to "stop the massive inflow of refugees" and warned of terrorists smuggling themselves into naive countries by posing as refugees fleeing war-torn Syria.
He said last October that "thousands of refugees are being admitted with no way to screen them and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free health care," even as American military veterans can't get such care.
Trump has advocated keeping refugees closer to their homes.
In a speech to the United Nations last week, he thanked Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon for taking in hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Syrian conflict, and described the United States as a "compassionate nation" that has spent "billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort."
"We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people, and which enables their eventual return to their home countries to be part of the rebuilding process," Trump said.
For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, he said, the U.S. can assist more than 10 migrants in their home regions.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Congressional Republicans unveiled a sweeping tax plan Wednesday that would simplify the tax system, cut rates and nearly double the standard deduction used by most Americans.
After a decade of lost growth, hardworking American families know the status quo is unacceptable, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said in a statement.
They want to keep more of their hard earned money so they can make ends meet, provide for their children, and save for retirement.
Republicans released a framework of the plan that was hammered out by House and Senate lawmakers in coordination with the Trump administration.
President Trump plans to give a speech on the plan in Indianapolis Wednesday afternoon.
The stakes are high, after Republicans a day earlier scrapped their latest effort to repeal and replace ObamaCare.
Now, the legislative focus will shift to tax reform, which Trump has been eager to tackle since taking office.
The plan, as outlined in the framework, nearly doubles the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and $24,000 for families.
This basically increases the amount of personal income that is tax-free.
Congressional Republicans describe this as creating a larger zero tax bracket.
The plan also collapses the number of personal tax brackets from seven to three.
By simplifying the system, most Americans would be able to file their taxes on a postcard, the plan says.
Deductions for mortgage interest and charitable giving would remain, but the plan seeks to end most other itemized deductions that can reduce how much affluent families pay.
But a battle is already brewing among Republicans over a move to eliminate the deduction for state and local taxes, which is especially valuable to people in high-tax states such as New York, New Jersey and California.
The plan retains existing tax benefits for college and retirement savings such as 401(k) contribution plans.
The individual tax rates would be 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent -- and the plan recommends a surcharge for the very wealthy.
But it does not set the income levels at which the rates would apply, so it's unclear just how much of a tax change there might be for a typical family.
The plan would seek to help families by calling for an increased child tax credit and opening it to families with higher incomes.
The credit currently is $1,000 per child.
Also proposed is a new tax credit of $500 to help pay for the care of the elderly and the sick who are claimed as dependents by the taxpayer.
The estate tax -- which is paid by those with multimillion-inheritances -- would be eliminated, a boon for wealthy individuals who inherit businesses, investments and real estate.
Corporations, meanwhile, would see their top tax rate cut from 35 percent to 20 percent.
New benefits would be given to firms in which the profits double as the owners' personal income.
They would pay at a 25 percent rate, down from 39.6 percent.
This creates a possible loophole for rich investors, lawyers, doctors and others, but administration officials say they will design measures to prevent any abuses.
The plan would also impose a new, one-tax, lower tax on corporate profits stashed overseas, and create a new tax structure for overseas business operations of U.S. companies.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Trump slammed Facebook and fake news on Twitter Wednesday, accusing media outlets and the social media network of collusion.
Facebook was always anti-Trump.
The Networks were always anti-Trump hence, Fake News, @nytimes (apologized) & @WaPo were anti-Trump.
Collusion?
Trump tweeted Wednesday.
Moments later, he gave a hat-tip to his supporters and touted his administration's accomplishments in the first nine months of his presidency.
..But the people were Pro-Trump!
Virtually no President has accomplished what we have accomplished in the first 9 months-and economy roaring, Trump tweeted.
Trumps comments come after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the platform planned to hand over political ads purchased by Russian operatives to Congress.
"I don't want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy," Zuckerberg said on Sept. 21, during remarks broadcast live on his Facebook page.
One senior source familiar with discussions told Fox News there is a deal with Facebook.
However, another senior source close to the negotiation says there is no agreement on the breadth of material Facebook may provide.
After an extensive legal and policy review, today we are announcing that we will also share these ads with congressional investigators, Facebooks general counsel, Colin Stretch, wrote.
We believe it is vitally important that government authorities have the information they need to deliver to the public a full assessment of what happened in the 2016 election.
The president suggested last week that the Facebook ad controversy was part of the Russia hoax dispute.
The Russia hoax continues, now its ads on Facebook, the president tweeted on Friday.
What about the totally biased and dishonest Media coverage in favor of Crooked Hillary?
Earlier this month, Facebook uncovered approximately $100,000 spread over almost 3,000 ads in fraudulent ad spending across its platform tied to the 2016 presidential election.
Fox News Chris Ciaccia contributed to this report.
The Associated Press announced Monday it was unveiling a new fact-checking operation, led by former HuffPost editor Karen Mahabir.
"The Associated Press is joining with the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation to expand its fact-checking efforts and ability to debunk misinformation," the wire service announced.
"Knight is granting $245,000 to enable the AP to experiment with new forms of storytelling for social media and mobile platforms and to use data and automation to better understand how consumers make decisions about what kinds of information to trust," the AP wrote.
Mahabir led breaking news coverage for HuffPost as managing editor for news.
Before her stint at the liberal news organization, Mahabir previously worked at the AP.
Mahabir's social media history suggests she fit in nicely with the liberal, anti-Trump crowd.
Click for more from The Washington Free Beacon.
The swelling population of illegal immigrants and their kids is costing American taxpayers $135 billion a year, the highest ever, driven by free medical care, education and a huge law enforcement bill, according to the the most authoritative report on the issue yet.
And despite claims from pro-illegal immigration advocates that the aliens pay significant off-setting taxes back to federal, state and local treasuries, the Federation for American Immigration Reform report tallied just $19 billion, making the final hit to taxpayers about $116 billion.
State and local governments are getting ravaged by the costs, at over $88 billion.
The federal government, by comparison, is getting off easy at $45 billion in costs for illegals.
President Trump, Attorney General Jeff Sessions and conservatives in Congress are moving aggressively to deal with illegals, especially those with long criminal records.
But their effort is being fought by courts and some 300 so-called "sanctuary communities" that refuse to work with federal law enforcement.
Click for more from Washington Examiner.
For football fans, it was a weekend filled with upsets, dramatic game-deciding calls from referees  and politics.
President Trump set his sights on the National Football League when he lashed out at athletes who protest the national anthem before games.
The response from the NFL and its players was swift and unavoidable as the weekends games brought opposing teams together, united against a common enemy: the president.
Read on for a look at Trump's gripes with the sport.
Cowboys gain ground with Trump

After the Dallas Cowboys Monday night game, Trump tweeted that big progress was made.
Along with team owner Jerry Jones, the Cowboys briefly knelt together before the national anthem.
But when the Star-Spangled Banner played, the Cowboys stood with locked arms.
The Arizona Cardinals did the same.
The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was the loudest I have ever heard.
Great anger, Trump tweeted.
But will Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem, he continued.
Big progress being made  we all love our country.
On Wednesday, Trump said that he had spoken to Jones, calling him a winner who knows how to get things done.
He also said athletes will stand for our Country!
Sarah Sanders takes a shot

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Monday that it is always appropriate for the President of the United States to defend our flag, to defend the national anthem and to defend the men and women who fought and died to defend it.
Sanders was asked multiple times about Trumps attack on the NFL during Mondays press briefing and suggested that athletes should protest the [police] officers on the field who are protecting them instead of the American flag.
Race versus respect

Trump said Monday that his issue with athletes protests was about respect for the U.S. and not race.
The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our country, flag and national anthem.
NFL must respect this!
he said.
Brady breaks Trumps tackle

Despite his friendship with Trump, New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady said he disagreed with the presidents remarks.
I certainly disagree with what he said.
I thought it was just divisive, Brady said.
Game time decisions

After the presidents speech and tweets, multiple NFL teams and players decided to take a stand  by taking a knee or remaining in the locker room during Sunday's games.
The Pittsburgh Steelers, Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans all remained in their locker rooms while The Star-Spangled Banner played.
Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin said the decision was made by the team not to be disrespectful to the anthem, but to remove ourselves from this circumstance.
Alejandro Villanueva, an offensive tackle and former Army Ranger, came out alone and stood while the anthem played.
NFL Sunday kicked off with players for the Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars taking a knee or locking arms during the national anthem.
Other teams followed suit.
While the locked arms was meant to be a display of unity among NFL players, Trump tweeted his support for the gesture.
"Standing with locked arms is good, kneeling is not acceptable.
Bad ratings!"
he said.
Trump tweeted a total of six times Sunday about the American flag and protests.
Trump tackles athlete protesters

While in Alabama to campaign for Sen. Luther Strange in the final days before the special election, Trump took a moment to slam athletes who kneel in protest during the national anthem  reigniting a debate that had begun to be dormant.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out, he's fired,'" Trump said to cheers.
You know, the NFL ratings are down massively, massively, Trump said as he railed against the leagues officiating on certain tackles.
A referee gets on television, his wife is sitting at home, shes so proud of him.
Theyre ruining the game.
Trump accused "those people taking a knee" during the anthem of "hurting" football and encouraged people to "leave the stadium" if just one player protests.
Buffalo Bills come up short

Before he became president, Trump owned the New Jersey Generals of the now-defunct United States Football League.
Trump pushed for the league's games to be played in the fall, in competition with the NFL, and was widely blamed for the collapse of the league.
After the USFL folded in 1985, Trump unsuccessfully tried to be a NFL team owner.
Trump lost a bidding war to become the Buffalo Bills' new owner in 2014.
He was outbid by Terry Pegula, 66, who reportedly paid $1.4 billion for the team.
Trump decried the NFL and the team on Twitter multiple times after losing the ownership fight.
The [NFL] games are so boring now that actually, Im glad I didnt get the Bills.
Boring games, too many flags, too soft!
Trump said on Oct. 13, 2014.
Former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore won the Alabama GOP primary runoff Tuesday night for a seat in the U.S. Senate, defeating incumbent Sen. Luther Strange.
Strange, who was appointed to finish out Jeff Sessions term when he was tapped as the U.S. attorney general, was strongly backed by President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence, who both visited Alabama over the past week to campaign for Strange.
Former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon pitted himself against Trump in the race as he backed Moore and campaigned for him on the eve of the election.
In Alabama Monday night, Bannon praised Trump as one of the most courageous individuals in an apparent move to alleviate fears Trumps own base may have over siding with a different candidate.
Trump tweeted Wednesday that he spoke to Moore for the first time and said he ran a fantastic race.
The presidents earlier tweets supporting Strange have been deleted.
Despite having Trumps support, being buoyed by millions of dollars in advertising by a super political action committee tied to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Moores past controversies, Strange was unable to avoid a runoff during a primary last month.
The special general election is slated for Dec. 12.
Roy Moore

Called the Ayatollah of Alabama by critics who believe he too closely marries his political and judicial responsibilities with religion, Judge Roy Moore emerged as the leader of the Republicans vying for the Senate seat.
Moore has garnered the support of many anti-establishment and high-profile conservatives, including former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin and "Duck Dynasty" star Phil Robertson.
Despite his popularity, Moore is mired in controversy.
He was twice removed from Alabamas Supreme Court.
The first time, he was removed when he refused to move a boulder-sized Ten Commandments monument from the statehouse; he was permanently suspended in 2016 after he instructed probate judges to deny marriage licenses to gay people.
LUTHER STRANGE SAYS TRUMPS NFL COMMENTS MAY SECURE HIS ALABAMA SEAT

Moore used those controversies to boost his support among conservative evangelicals while campaigning, and he told Republican voters that those cases were akin to battle scars for standing up for what he believes.
On his campaign website, Moore said he was suspended for upholding the sanctity of marriage as between one man and one woman.
Moore was also called racially insensitive when he used dated terms to seemingly describe Asian people and Native Americans during a recent campaign speech.
Now we have blacks and whites fighting, reds and yellows fighting, Democrats and Republicans fighting, men and women fighting.
Whats going to unite us?
Whats going to bring us back together?
A president?
A Congress?
No, its going to be God, he said.
He also suggested the 9/11 terrorist attacks were a punishment from God and suggested that God was upset with the U.S. because we legitimize sodomy and legitimize abortion," CNN reported.
Video

At his rally on the eve of the election, Moore said all of Washington is waiting to see what Alabama does.
Wearing a white cowboy hat, Moore doubled down on his support of the Second Amendment and brandished a handgun during the event.
STRANGE: ROY MOORE HAS NO RECORD OF CONSERVATIVE ACCOMPLISHMENT

Many supporters in the crowd wore the iconic red Make America Great Again hats from Trumps campaign or other pro-Trump clothing.
Chu Green, of Mobile, Ala., told the Associated Press that she thinks Trump knows he made a mistake in endorsing Strange.
At Moores rally, she held a sign that said Mr. President and Mr. V.P.
I love you but you are wrong!
America needs Judge Moore, according to the Associated Press.
Luther Strange

Despite being backed by GOP senators and Trump, Luther Strange failed to avoid a runoff and couldnt defeat Moore in the primary.
Trump was in Alabama Friday to campaign for Strange  sometimes called Big Luther because of his 6-foot-9-inch frame.
In his wide-ranging speech  which touched on the North Korea conflict and NFL players who protest during the national anthem  Trump said Strange would defend your interests, fight for your values and always put America first.
The president has tweeted his support of Strange multiple times, including on the morning of the election.
Many of those tweets have been deleted.
Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job  vote today for Big Luther, Trump said.
BANNON MAKES BEST PITCH FOR ROY MOORE FOR ALABAMA SENATE

Strange, who was tapped by Alabamas former governor to finish out Sessions term, was the states attorney general and had joined a lawsuit against the Obama administration that challenged the former presidents executive order on amnesty for undocumented immigrants.
Aside from the president, Strange also racked up endorsements from the National Rifle Association of America, National Right to Life and the Alabama Farmers Federation.
Although a favorite of the establishment, Stranges struggles raised concerns among GOP members of Congress.
"There are probably a number of incumbents on both sides of the aisle who should take notice of another demonstration that voters still want change," Greg Strimple, a Republican pollster for a political action committee aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, told the Associated Press.
"The takeaway is that Washington is very unpopular," Strimple said, and that overrides even Trump's endorsement, because he cannot simply "transfer his brand" to candidates, like the lobbyist-turned-politician Strange, who fail to establish their own outsider credentials.
Doug Jones

A former U.S. attorney during the Clinton administration, Jones beat out seven other Democrats to secure the partys nomination.
Jones has been openly critical of Trump  particularly when it comes to Trumps wish to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate change agreement  and picked up key endorsements from liberal lawmakers.
BEN CARSON PRAISES ROY MOORE IN APPARENT BREAK FROM TRUMP

Former Vice President Joe Biden endorsed Jones in the primary and lent his voice to robocalls made to voters.
Doug Jones will make a great U.S. senator so please make sure you get out and vote on Tuesday  and Im hoping youll vote for my friend, Doug Jones, Biden said.
Jones was also endorsed by Reps. John Lewis, D-Ga., Cedric Richmond, D-La., and Terri Sewell, D-Ala.
While a Republican candidate is widely expected to win the seat, Alabama Democrats are reportedly feeling optimistic about their candidate.
Jones is perhaps best known for successfully prosecuting two members of the Ku Klux Klan accused of bombing a Birmingham church in 1963 that killed four little girls.
His campaign website touts his progressive ideals and plans for health care reform and protecting Planned Parenthood.
The shenanigans around the 2016 campaign must be pushed aside and full equality for women made the law and the norm in America, Jones said on his website.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Trump and Vice President Pence quickly closed ranks Wednesday behind Alabamas Roy Moore after he defeated their favored candidate in the states Senate primary runoff.
Moore, a conservative firebrand, defeated Trump-backed Sen. Luther Strange on Tuesday night in a race for the seat that Jeff Sessions held before becoming U.S. attorney general.
Spoke to Roy Moore of Alabama last night for the first time, Trump tweeted.
"Sounds like a really great guy who ran a fantastic race.
He will help to #MAGA!
Pence tweeted: "Congratulations Roy Moore!
We are thrilled you ran on the #MAGA (Make America Great Again) agenda & we are for you!
Trump also called to congratulate Moore, who defeated Strange by 9 percentage points.
I certainly support President Trumps agenda, Moore said Wednesday on Fox & Friends.
I think he will back me.
I received a call from the president, and thats what he said hed do.
Moore in his victory speech also made clear hed work with Trump if he comes to Washington, despite the president backing his runoff opponent.
Together we can make America great, he said.
We can support the president.
Dont let anybody in the press think that because [the president] supported my opponent that I do not support him or his agenda.
Strange, a former Alabama attorney general, was appointed to the seat in April.
He was also backed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, with expectation he would continue to support the agendas of Trump and the leaders of the GOP-controlled chamber.
Moore, a former Alabama chief justice, will face Democratic opponent Doug Jones, a former federal prosecutor, in December.
A Democrat has not won an Alabama Senate seat in roughly the past 25 years, but Moore is still expected to face a strong challenge from Washington Democrats and their money.
Well turn out our voters, and Roy Moore is going to be the next senator, Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel told Fox & Friends earlier Wednesday morning.
We're going to make sure Roy Moore is the next senator from Alabama.
McDaniel, whose group gave roughly $30 million to the Strange campaign, said Trump and Moore coming together now is critical.
You put your best foot forward and then you come together, she said.
Our purpose unites us.
And as Republicans, we know what we need to do for this country.
And we need to support the presidents agenda.
Trump and Pence went to Alabama in the closing days of the race to stump for Strange.
The runoff pitted Trump against former chief strategist Steve Bannon, former Alaska Gov.
Sarah Palin and a slew of House conservatives who all backed Moore.
Strange, in his concession statement, thanked Trump and Pence for their support and vowed to "go back to work with President Trump and do all I can to advance his agenda over the next few weeks."
The Senate Leadership Fund, a group with ties to McConnell, R-Ky., spent an estimated $9 million trying to secure the nomination for Strange.
Moore, known in Alabama as the "Ten Commandments Judge," has a colorful political history that has both fueled and complicated his rise.
Moore first received national attention in the 1990s as a county judge when he hung a wooden Ten Commandments plaque on the wall of his courtroom.
The ACLU filed a lawsuit against him.
Moore then ran and won a race for chief justice of the states Supreme Court in 2000.
But he was ousted after refusing to remove a 5,280-pound granite Ten Commandments monument from the rotunda of the state judicial building.
Moore resurrected his political career in 2012, when he was elected chief justice again.
But his second tenure was short-lived: in 2016, Moore was suspended as chief justice after he directed probate judges not to issue marriage certificates to gay couples.
Fox News' Samuel Chamberlain, Alex Pappas and Joseph Weber and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Trump touched off widespread speculation Wednesday morning with a mysterious tweet on the health care debate that claimed one "Yes vote" was in the hospital.
Reporters scrambled on Twitter to figure out which senator he was describing.
Turns out, it was an apparent reference to Mississippi Republican Sen. Thad Cochran, 79, who is in his home state recuperating from a "urological issue."
A source close to Cochran confirmed that he has been out of Washington all week.
But while Cochran's office put out a statement Tuesday night, his absence was not widely known until Trump alluded to it on Twitter.
In his tweet, the president was voicing hope that Republicans can still pass an ObamaCare overhaul in the future, after GOP leaders abandoned efforts to pass the so-called Graham-Cassidy bill ahead of a weekend deadline to do so without threat of filibuster.
With one Yes vote in hospital & very positive signs from Alaska and two others (McCain is out), we have the HCare Vote, but not for Friday!
Trump tweeted.
While Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., has been getting treatment for brain cancer, Trump's tweet clearly was not referring to him -- as the Arizona senator came out against the health bill.
While the tweet seemed to reference Cochran, spokesman for the senator Stephen Worley clarified Wednesday that Cochran was actually "not in the hospital."
Sen. Cochran is in Mississippi recuperating from a urological issue, but is not in the hospital, Worley tweeted.
Cochran's office put out a statement on Tuesday noting that the senator was recently treated for a "urological issue" and is recuperating in Mississippi.
"The Senator expects to resume his regular work schedule soon," the statement read.
A source close to Cochran told Fox News that he is being treated for prostate issues, but underscored that his condition is not serious or cancerous.
Senate Republicans said Tuesday that they no longer planned to bring the Graham-Cassidy bill that would have dismantled ObamaCare to the floor, after several GOP senators said they would not support the measure.
We will have the votes for Healthcare but not for the reconciliation deadline of Friday, after which we need 60.
Get rid of Filibuster Rule!
Trump also tweeted Wednesday.
Once a year, the Senate can sidestep filibuster rules and consider legislation under a process called budget reconciliation, which requires only 51 votes to pass a bill.
But that package is only good for one year and set to expire Saturday night.
This means after Sept. 30, any ObamaCare repeal bill would need the support of at least 60 votes in the Senate -- which is why Trump renewed his call to scrap the filibuster.
In a joint statement released Tuesday afternoon, Sens.
Lindsey Graham, R-S.C.; Dean Heller, R-Nev.; Bill Cassidy, R-La.
; and Ron Johnson, R-Wis., voiced hope that Congress can overhaul ObamaCare at some point.
Its not a question of if Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson replaces ObamaCareits only a question of when, the four senators said in a statement.
While the arcane rules of the reconciliation process limited our policy options and imposed an artificial deadline on our efforts, we will push on.
They added: It is just a matter of time until we fulfill our promise to repeal and replace ObamaCare with something far better.
Fox News' Chad Pergram contributed to this report.
President Trump made no secret of his strong support for Sen. Luther Strange in Tuesday's GOP primary runoff in Alabama  but now that Roy Moore is the winner, the president has deleted his Twitter endorsements.
The president apparently has scrubbed three tweets as of Wednesday morning.
Strange, despite enjoying GOP establishment support, entered the runoff against former Alabama chief justice Moore as the underdog.
But Trump, who endorsed Strange last month, made a last-ditch campaign appearance for him in Alabama on Friday and tried to rally voters to the incumbent ahead of the vote.
He tweeted early Tuesday that, Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job vote today for Big Luther.
That tweet has since been deleted.
Trump also tweeted late Monday, Big election tomorrow in the Great State of Alabama.
Vote for Senator Luther Strange, tough on crime & border will never let you down!
And he tweeted, ALABAMA, get out and vote for Luther Strange he has proven to me that he will never let you down!
#MAGA!
Those tweets are gone.
The presidents Twitter feed, as of Wednesday morning, has thrown his support to Moore, whom he mistakenly called Ray this week, for the general election race later this year.
Congratulations to Roy Moore on his Republican Primary win in Alabama.
Luther Strange started way back & ran a good race.
Roy, WIN in Dec!
Trump tweeted Tuesday night, adding early Wednesday that he, Spoke to Roy Moore of Alabama last night for the first time.
Sounds like a really great guy who ran a fantastic race.
He will help to #MAGA!
The White House did not respond to Fox News request for comment as to why the president deleted the tweets.
ROY MOORE DEFEATS TRUMP-BACKED LUTHER STRANGE IN ALABAMA SENATE RUNOFF

Moore will face off in the general election against Democrat Doug Jones, a lawyer and former U.S. attorney during President Bill Clintons administration.
The winner of that race will complete the Senate term started by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and be up for re-election come 2020.
NFL players and other professional athletes should stand for the national anthem to show their respect for the Americans who make sacrifices to help keep the U.S. safe, secure, and prosperous, Sen. Pat Toomey told CNBC on Wednesday.
"They have every right to protest as they see fit.
But I think it's totally inappropriate.
What they ought to do is show their respect for the people who helped secure the country that they have," the Pennsylvania Republican said.
Asked his opinion about the polarizing player protests of taking a knee during "The Star-Spangled Banner" before games, Toomey said he believes "they ought to be standing," siding with President Donald Trump who's been tweeting since the weekend about the issue, saying players who don't stand should be fired.
On Monday Night Football, the Cowboys, including owner Jerry Jones, knelt before the national anthem in solidarity with the hundreds of players who took a knee over the weekend.
But when the anthem started, the players on Dallas and the Arizona Cardinals were standing arm in arm.
Jones has been vocal in the past against protesting during the anthem.
Toomey said in a "Squawk Box" interview, "This country has offered so many millions of people so many wonderful opportunities; and quite especially, the players on the field who are multimillionaires because they're really good at playing a game."
Pennsylvania, Toomey's state, is one of a handful of states that have two NFL franchises: the Philadelphia Eagles and the Pittsburgh Steelers.
Sen. Tim Scott, the only black Republican in the Senate, told CNBC on Wednesday that NFL players should not protest during the national anthem.
"Every man, woman, child in this country should stand for the national anthem.
That should go without question," the South Carolina senator said.
Although Scott didn't agree with the form of protest, he said Americans should ask themselves why the players are kneeling.
"If we were able to reinforce the fact that we all should stand and delve into the challenges that have some players kneeling, we'll be in a better place as a country," he said in an interview on "Squawk Box."
"We should all seek for unity and equality in this nation."
President Donald Trump has been tweeting about the issue and said players who don't stand should be fired.
The firestorm started when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick kneeled during the national anthem last season to protest the treatment of African-Americans in the United States.
He is no longer in the NFL.
On Monday night, the Dallas Cowboys, including owner Jerry Jones, knelt before the singing of "The Star-Spangled Banner" in solidarity with the hundreds players who took a knee over the weekend after Trump's remarks.
But when the national anthem started, the Dallas and Arizona Cardinal players stood arm in arm.
Scott said the Cowboys did a "good job" in finding a way to be clear in their support of the challenges in this country while respecting the anthem.
Trump and Scott met earlier this month to discuss race relations in the wake of the violent white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
After the meeting, Scott told reporters he was "encouraged and surprised" by Trump, who listened more than he talked.
But Scott also criticized Trump for assigning blame in a way that put white supremacist protesters on equal footing with counterdemonstrators.
Scott added Wednesday that the country has evolved over the last 50 to 60 years.
It's now "un-American to be racist," he said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
President Donald Trump threw his support behind Sen. Luther Strange in Alabama's Republican Senate primary.
Strange, also backed by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, lost the election to former Judge Roy Moore on Tuesday night.
The president then deleted some of his tweets supporting Strange.
"Luther Strange has been shooting up in the Alabama polls since my endorsement.
Finish the job  vote today for 'Big Luther,'" Trump wrote Tuesday in one of the messages, archived by nonprofit news site ProPublica.
Two other deleted tweets urged Alabama to "get out and vote for Luther Strange" and said he will "never let you down."
After Moore won, Trump congratulated him in a tweet.
He said Strange "started way back" and "ran a good race."
Strange was appointed to the Senate earlier this year to fill the vacancy created by former Sen. Jeff Sessions joining the Trump administration as attorney general.
He was considered a reliable vote on most Republican policies.
A McConnell-aligned super PAC funneled millions into the state to support Strange.
President Donald Trump took aim at Facebook on Wednesday, suggesting the social media company was in cahoots with "Fake News" networks.
Facebook is already under pressure in Washington, where investigators and Congress are examining thousands of Facebook advertisements from the 2016 election.
Chief executive Mark Zuckerberg also recently announced plans to sell millions of shares over the next 1 years for his Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
Its beneficiaries include programs for immigration and prison reform and affordable housing.
Facebook was not immediately available to comment on Trump's tweet.
The company's curation of news articles has drawn ire from both political parties.
Last year, Zuckerberg agreed to meet with conservative leaders after accusations that Facebook had suppressed right-leaning news.
But Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, has also pressed Facebook and other social media companies on accusations they enabled Russian tampering in the U.S. election, calling recent disclosures the "tip of the iceberg."
News organizations, too, have a fraught relationship with the social network.
While Facebook and Google offer tools for journalists, a group of news organizations has said the near-duopoly of online advertising is a threat to free press.
Zuckerberg and Trump's relationship has not seen the same public scrutiny as, say, Washington Post owner and Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos.
But one of Facebook's most influential investors, Peter Thiel, is a Trump ally.
A recent profile in Vanity Fair suggested Thiel is leaning toward more oversight of large technology companies.
(Thiel was not immediately available to comment to CNBC).
Nonetheless, Facebook's share price has risen nearly 45 percent so far this year, amid broad gains in the technology industry.
Aside from being avid users of social media, Zuckerberg and Trump have something else in common.
Zuckerberg's 2017 tour of America  often compared to a political campaign  has focused on some of the same core issues as Trump's campaign.
Zuckerberg has said he hopes to visit 30 states this year because Americans "need to find a way to change the game so it works for everyone."
Correction: This story was revised to correct Sen. Mark Warner's position on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
He is vice chairman.
President Donald Trump's "Big Six" tax writers see closing loopholes as a "key principle" of tax reform, the new chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers said Wednesday.
Trump is expected to reveal more details about the plan later in the day, including slashing tax rates on businesses and the wealthy.
The framework was crafted by six officials: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Trump economic advisor Gary Cohn, House Speaker Paul Ryan, House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Senate Finance Chairman Orrin Hatch.
"[If] I'm giving you a subsidy for buying this thing but then I have to charge you a higher tax rate because I gave you a subsidy, then all that complexity isn't really putting more money in your pocket," newly confirmed Trump aide Kevin Hassett said in an interview on CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"There's been an enormous effort in the '86 Tax Act's style  and I think this isn't foreshadowing too much  there's been an enormous effort to simplify things a heck of a lot and make it so you can just lower rates by taking the complex red tape out of the tax code," he added.
The Senate voted earlier this month to approve Hassett as chairman of Trump's economic policy agency.
Unlike under President Barack Obama, the position is not in the presidential Cabinet.
"The CEA chair has moved in and out of the Cabinet since its founding," Hassett said.
"I think in its original design it wasn't meant to be in the Cabinet because the CEA chair is supposed to provide objective, not political, analysis."
Prior to his appointment, Hassett was an economist at the American Enterprise Institute and senior economist at the Federal Reserve.
He also was a consultant to the Treasury Department and has advised presidential campaigns, including Republican Mitt Romney's unsuccessful 2012 run.
After well-received responses to two major hurricanes that hit the U.S. mainland, President Donald Trump is battling to show Americans he can handle yet another natural disaster  this time in Puerto Rico  despite being caught up in another Twitter war.
Caught off guard by the severity of Hurricane Maria's damage to the U.S. island territory, Trump did not focus on the storm for days, instead launching a barrage of tweets over his view that National Football League players should be required to stand during the U.S. national anthem.
Trump insisted to reporters on Tuesday that he was not preoccupied with the NFL controversy and that he could multi-task.
He said he would visit Puerto Rico on Tuesday.
"I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work," he said.
But with the territory's 3.4 million people struggling to get food, water, power and shelter, Democratic leaders in Congress and some Puerto Rico residents, who are U.S. citizens, accused the Trump administration of being more sluggish in its response than to disasters on the U.S. mainland.
The previous Republican president, George W. Bush, faced widespread criticism for his administration's initial handling of Hurricane Katrina, which killed some 1,800 people in and around New Orleans in 2005.
As of Tuesday, Trump had tweeted two dozen times about the NFL controversy and only began tweeting about Puerto Rico when he started to draw criticism.
In tweets on Monday night, he said Puerto Rico was in "deep trouble" and noted its massive debt crisis.
"Trump certainly seemed to be on top of the situation with Hurricane Harvey in Houston and Hurricane Irma in Florida.
With Puerto Rico, because of this distraction, there is maybe the perception that he hasn't been on top of the situation," said presidential historian Thomas Alan Schwartz.
When Trump finally started talking about Puerto Rico, he gave mixed signals, saying on the one hand that Puerto Rico was in trouble, while lauding his administration's response on the other.
"I just question the victory laps that the president is taking already," said Lars Anderson, who was a senior Federal Emergency Management Agency official in Democratic President Barack Obama's administration, and now runs a crisis communications firm called BlueDot Strategies.
Trump will have the opportunity next week during his visit to Puerto Rico to use the presidential bully pulpit to draw attention to the need for more resources, Anderson said.
"I'm glad to see that the White House is actually acknowledging the situation there," he said.
U.S. President Donald Trump will call on Wednesday for slashing tax rates on businesses and the wealthy as part of a new tax plan that is likely to offer few details about how to pay for the cuts without expanding the federal deficit.
Hammered out over months of talks among Trump aides and top Republicans in Congress, the plan to be unveiled at an event in Indianapolis was expected to propose a 20 percent corporate income tax rate, a new 25 percent tax rate for pass-through businesses such as partnerships, and a reduced 35 percent top income tax rate for individual Americans.
While it would lower the top individual rate from 39.6 percent, the plan was also expected to double the standard deduction, a set amount of income exempt from taxation, for all taxpayers.
"You have to look at the plan in its entirety.
It doubles the standard deduction, so in the end, even the lowest rates get a tax cut," said Jim Renacci, a Republican on the tax-writing House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee.
Republicans will say that the tax cuts, widely leaked to the media by a variety of sources in recent days, would be offset by new revenues raised from eliminating tax loopholes, although few if any of those are expected to be named in the plan.
Republicans are also expected to predict that the Trump tax cuts, if approved by Congress, would drive more robust U.S. economic growth, predictions that critics are sure to question.
At a time of slow but steady U.S. economic expansion, the Trump tax-cut package has some support in Congress, even among Republican fiscal hawks who only a short time ago routinely opposed deficit-financed fiscal proposals.
Trump and his Republican allies made completing tax reform in 2017 a top promise of the 2016 election campaign and are under mounting pressure to finish the job since the collapse of the latest Republican effort to overturn the Obamacare healthcare law.
Trump was expected to push lawmakers hard to quickly approve his tax package, despite critics who will say it falls short of the "tax reform" he promised on the campaign trail.
The plan will be the latest in a series of Republican documents outlining tax policy goals, but failing to tackle the tough questions that have defied past administrations' efforts to fix the tax code.
It has not been reformed since 1986.
North Korean government officials have been trying to arrange meetings with Republican-linked analysts in Washington to better understand President Donald Trump and his messages to the reclusive nation, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday.
The outreach, which has been done quietly by Kim Jong Un's regime, started before the current war of words between the two leaders, the newspaper added.
"Their number-one concern is Trump.
They can't figure him out," one person with direct knowledge of the situation told Washington Post.
Read about North Korea's outreach to Republican-linked analysts in Washington.
Conservative former judge Roy Moore easily defeated Alabama's incumbent Sen. Luther Strange on Tuesday in a Republican Senate primary runoff, marking the first time in five years that a sitting U.S. senator has lost a primary.
Moore won all but four of the state's 67 counties, getting 55 percent of the vote to 45 percent for Strange, who was backed by President Donald Trump.
Moore's victory delivered a major blow to the establishment wing of the national Republican party and to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., whose allied super PAC spent millions backing Strange's candidacy.
Trump campaigned for Strange, holding a rally in the state on Friday, as did Vice President Mike Pence.
But a number of Trump's current and former aides endorsed the controversial Moore, including former White House strategist Steve Bannon and Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson.
In his victory speech, Moore pledged to help Trump fulfill his 2016 campaign slogan to "make America great again," and told the crowd multiple times how strongly he supports Trump, even though Trump did not support his campaign.
Moore, long known for his religious zeal, also pledged to "return the knowledge of God" to the Constitution, saying "the separation of church and state doesn't separate us from God."
Following news of his victory, Republicans were quick to rally around Moore, starting with Trump himself.
The president tweeted congratulations to Moore shortly after the race was called, and later on the two men spoke by phone, where Trump again congratulated Moore.
Trump also appears to have tried to erase evidence of his support for the losing candidate.
Late Tuesday, Trump deleted a series of tweets he had posted earlier in the day, urging voters to turn out for Strange.
Even Strange's biggest supporter in Washington, McConnell, publicly congratulated Moore, a candidate who missed few opportunities to criticize the Kentucky senator.
Moore "ran a spirited campaign centered around a dissatisfaction with the progress made in Washington," McConnell said in a statement.
"Senate Republicans will be as committed to keeping Alabama's Senate seat in Republican hands with Roy Moore as we were with Luther Strange."
Moore will now face Democratic nominee Doug Jones in a Dec. 12 general election to fill the seat vacated by now Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Republicans hold every statewide elected office in Alabama and enjoy large majorities in both chambers of the legislature.
By winning the GOP primary, Moore immediately becomes the favored candidate in December's general election.
Moore's victory on Tuesday also has national political implications.
A fringe conservative who promises to fight the spread of "Sharia law," and bring Christianity to Washington, Moore campaigned on an anti-McConnell platform.
He portrayed Strange as a rubber stamp for the GOP Senate majority leader.
If, as expected, Moore is elected to the Senate, McConnell will lose a reliable Republican vote within his caucus, and face a Senate colleague with a mandate to work against the GOP leadership agenda.
This could make it even more difficult than it already is for Republicans to pass meaningful legislation, such as tax reform or an infrastructure bill.
Wilbur Ross: China 'quite serious' about living up to N.Korea commitments 16 Hours Ago | 02:23

China is "quite serious about living up to the commitments they have made regarding North Korea," U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
The order for mainland lenders to stop doing business with Pyongyang "is a logical next step in the sanctions, and a very important one," he told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
"Chinese commercial banks had been a big route for facilitation of trade to North Korea so the fact that the PBOC has put out a taboo, that's a very big deal," the billionaire said, referring to China's central bank, or the People's Bank of China.
Last week, sources told Reuters that the PBOC had instructed domestic banks to implement United Nations sanctions against the rogue state.
The development comes on the heels of Pyongyang's sixth nuclear test earlier this month and follows incessant demands from President Donald Trump for more Chinese action against North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
On Tuesday, the U.S. Treasury Department announced new sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation as part of efforts to cut off financial support for Kim's weapons programs.
The PBOC move was "a gigantic step" and assuming that it's followed through, "that's a very good sign, it's very, very important pressure," said 79-year-old Ross, who made a fortune investing in distressed assets before joining the White House.
Ross said what is unusual is that the actions of President Donald Trump's administration are "so public," which he blamed on the news media being "intensely focused" on Washington, DC.
"Frankly, a lot of the media folks can't get over the fact that President Trump in fact is the president, is going to be the president for eight years, I hope, not just four," Ross said.
Ross also said he didn't believe the president's controversial use of Twitter was a distraction from the administration's core goals.
This week, Trump came under criticism for a long series of Twitter comments criticizing NFL players for kneeling during the national anthem prior to games.
Trump didn't appear to be moving on from his complaints about the protests.
Late on Tuesday U.S. time, he said on Twitter that even Jamaican Olympian Usain Bolt "showed respect for our national anthem."
Trump included an undated video of Bolt standing during the U.S. national anthem in the middle of a live television interview at an unidentified sporting event.
Critics noted that Trump appeared to be focusing on the NFL spat rather than a growing humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, which was struck by Hurricane Maria last week.
Trump then responded with tweets that focused primarily on Puerto Rico's "broken infrastructure" and "massive debt."
Wilbur Ross: Tax reform will raise GDP by 1 percentage point if done right 15 Hours Ago | 02:17

The United States will see its gross domestic product rise by 1 percent if the government can get tax reform "right," according to the commerce secretary.
Getting U.S. tax reform right is important, because it could add nearly $3 trillion in federal government revenue in the next decade, Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
Beyond the federal budget and the lifting of the debt ceiling, the tax program is the "single-most important thing," Ross told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Effective tax reform will "increase the gross domestic product growth by 1 percentage point, so 100 basis points," he said, adding that in 10 years, that would amount to "$10 trillion more GDP, $3 trillion more revenues to the federal government."
"Those are gigantic numbers even for a country the size of the U.S.," he said, "so the tax changes could be transformative events."
Stocks dodged a summer swoon, but Morgan Stanley's Mike Wilson says the market may see an autumn pullback of about 5 to 6 percent.
The catalyst may very well be the tax reform debate, particularly if Congress does not look like it is in agreement on main elements.
But stocks should resume their climb after the sell-off, and the S&P 500 could ultimately reach his 2,700 target early next year, especially if stimulus and tax reform are approved.
Wilson, whose target is the highest in CNBC's strategist survey, says the market could then have a much more serious correction  potentially sliding 20 percent.
"We'll get to 2,700 first, and then the timing of the beginning of the cyclical bear could be imminent.
It could be anytime after that.
It could be as early as the second half of next year," he said.
The S&P 500 closed at 2,496 Tuesday, a decline of 0.2 points.
Wilson, Morgan Stanley's chief equities strategist, said if the stock market does have a pullback this year, it could be in late October, early November.
That could coincide with congressional efforts to "try to figure out the details" of tax legislation.
He said the details "are going to be sparse" when the much-anticipated plan for individual and corporate tax cuts is announced Wednesday.
The Trump administration and GOP congressional leaders have been working out a plan that now goes to the House to hash out details.
President Donald Trump will discuss tax cuts and tax reform in Indianapolis Wednesday.
"I think the way it sets up is people probably get excited over the next couple of weeks," said Wilson, also chief investment officer, institutional securities and wealth management.
Wilson expects earnings will be good, and they should keep buoying the market.
"Then we're going to have the inevitable disappointment."
But there's another trend he says could lift the market this fall.
Both retail and institutional investors, who have been waiting for a correction, still have cash to put to work, and they could start to do that in the next couple of weeks.
Wilson also said the sell-off in tech Monday was not a concern, and he expects earnings to be good.
"The area that's most vulnerable is internet software space.
Not because of fundamentals.
It's because they're over-owned.
It's a rotation.
I think tech will get a bid going into earnings season," he said.
Wilson downgraded consumer discretionary to underweight this week.
"It's more about end of cycle.
Our view is we're late cycle.
We were never really bullish on consumer discretionary this year," he said.
He does like energy, tech, financials and industrials, and he said the next phase of the reflation trade is taking hold after consolidation.
He also said the reflation trade, lifting small-caps, energy and banks recently, is a positive.
The trade, called "Trump trade" by some, fizzled after a strong push higher in those groups just after the election last year.
"It is really more about Congress.
I call it the pro-growth agenda," he said.
"Winning breeds winning," taught legendary basketball coach John Wooden.
As they turn now to tax reform, Republicans in Washington hope the opposite isn't also true.
In recent days, President Donald Trump and GOP leaders have suffered another health-care defeat in slow motion.
First one, then a second, and, finally, a decisive third Republican senator announced opposition to the latest attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare.
That made it no surprise Tuesday when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell announced there would be no floor vote on the so-called Graham-Cassidy plan to replace Obamacare with federal health care block grants.
Yet it repeated the pain of earlier failures that have left Trump and the GOP rank-and-file grousing about lawmakers' inability to fulfill their promises.
Do those failure weaken prospects for tax reform proposals the Trump administration had hoped would already have be signed into law by now?
Some Republicans fear the answer is yes.
"Health failures hurt the tax effort," said conservative tax expert Alan Cole, until recently an analyst at the Tax Foundation.
"Recent defections," he explained, "have reduced the expectation that the GOP will work together."
Republicans aim to pass tax reform through the same special budget rules they used on health care, which preclude a filibuster by Senate Democrats.
That only works if the 52-member GOP caucus can achieve consensus among at least 50 senators, allowing Vice President Mike Pence to break a tie if necessary.
Yet as Trump and GOP leaders prepare to offer some tax plan details Wednesday, Republicans have not reached consensus on key issues.
Those include the size and scope of the plan, whether it can increase the deficit or not, how low the rate on businesses can go, and whether taxes can be reduced for wealthy Americans.
Internal GOP disagreements have lately grown more pronounced, not less.
Trump now insists that tax reform won't cut taxes for the rich, even though his 2016 campaign proposal did.
House Speaker Paul Ryan, who backs a cut in the top individual rates, has rejected the idea of comparing effects on different income groups as Democratic-style class warfare.
Steve Bannon, until recently Trump's chief White House strategist, now attacks "establishment" thinking like Ryan's from the outside.
Having returned to champion of blue-collar populism at Breitbart News, Bannon campaigned over the weekend for an Alabama Republican Senate candidate against an opponent backed by both the president and McConnell.
Some Capitol Hill veterans insist there will be no health care hangover on tax reform.
A tax-cutting debate, they explain, is inherently more unifying for the small-government party than one about Obamacare services.
"Health care is always an away game for GOPers," observed Michael Steel, who was a top aide to former House Speaker John Boehner.
"Tax is our home court."
And with 2018 midterm elections looming, tax reform has taken on "do-or-die" urgency, adds Rohit Kumar, a former policy aide to McConnell.
Moreover, he said Democrats will find it harder to mobilize against giving Americans tax cuts than against taking away their health benefits.
But with Trump broadly unpopular, and Republicans dispirited, some Democrats insist they enter the fight with renewed energy and political momentum.
"Painting Republicans as the party of billionaires and CEOs is our wheelhouse, and this billionaire-filled administration is walking right into it," boasted Adam Jentleson, a former Senate Democratic leadership aide.
"A lot of people who have been engaging in political action this year, many for the first time, are seeing that their action has a major impact," added Jentleson, now at the liberal Center for American Progress.
"On our side, there's the reverse effect of success begetting success."
The time has come to get Republicans and Democrats, including governors, in the same room to work on a health-care solution, Gov.
John Hickenlooper, D-Colo., told CNBC on Tuesday.
Earlier in the day, Republicans decided not to hold a Senate vote on their latest health-care bill this week after it failed to garner enough support for passage.
Hickenlooper, who has been working with Republican Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio on a bipartisan plan, said the first step is to determine how to stabilize the private health-care markets.
Republican Sen. Lamar Alexander and Democratic Sen. Patty Murray were working on a short-term solution, but last week they said they failed to reach a bipartisan consensus.
However, Hickenlooper said he's "hopeful" they will continue their work.
"Once we get that, then I think it's time to roll up our sleeves  Republicans and Democrats," Hickenlooper said in an interview with "Closing Bell."
"We have to begin looking at how do we control costs going forward.
What's it look like to really take on health care and the Affordable Care Act?"
he added.
And that discussion should include governors, who have to implement the rules and regulations that come out of Washington, he said.
"Let's get  some governors in there as well and say what can work and what can we really look at," he said.
"We all agree that we want to control this ridiculous medical inflation that we've been seeing for the last 30 years, long before the Affordable Care Act."
Senior administration officials said Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and National Economic Director Gary Cohn met with Trump on Monday to discuss the details of the tax framework.
Trump has pushed for lower rates for corporations and so-called pass-through businesses, saying as recently as Sunday that he would prefer a 15 percent corporate rate.
The Big Six framework is expected to outline a 20 percent rate instead, according to several people briefed on the plan.
The White House had also called for a 15 percent rate for pass-throughs; the plan will likely end up at 25 percent, two people familiar with the contents said.
Trump is slated to deliver a speech on tax reform in Indiana on Wednesday and is expected to argue that reforming the tax code is essential to delivering on the populist message that drove his campaign.
The administration is framing tax cuts for businesses as essential for encouraging companies to bring money back from overseas  and ensuring that they stay in America in the first place.
They will also argue that big reductions to the business tax code will result in more jobs and higher wages for workers.
"If we do this, we will create millions of new jobs for our people, and bring many, many businesses back to our shores," Trump said Tuesday before a meeting with members of the House tax-writing committee.
"We won't see companies leaving our country, firing their people, and going and then selling their product, by the way, back into our country with no tax and no retribution.
That will all stop."
The president also previewed a few key details of the tax framework, which he said would include doubling the standard deduction that households are allowed to take, as well as expanding the child tax credit.
According to an Axios report, the plan will raise the bottom tax rate for low-income households from 10 percent to 12 percent, as proposed by House GOP leadership.
However, doubling the standard deduction could offset that change  and potentially eliminate the tax burden for some households.
The White House is planning to pitch the measure as a "zero tax rate" on low-income families.
Trump will also continue pressuring vulnerable red-state Democrats to get on board with tax reform.
Indiana's Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, will travel with the president for Wednesday's speech.
Donnelly was also in Indiana last week for Vice President Mike Pence's address on tax reform.
Donnelly has introduced a bill that he says will penalize companies that outsource jobs.
He said he has discussed the effort with both Trump and Pence.
"I believe tax reform should include policies that will benefit working and middle-class families, create new jobs, and protect existing jobs," Donnelly said, in a Tuesday statement.
"I'm pleased the president has been supportive of my proposal to address the outsourcing of American jobs, and I am hopeful that any tax reform proposal includes measures that support American workers as well as the middle class and encourage domestic investments."
US disclosed path of B-1B bomber because North Korea didn't seem to know 8:54 AM ET Tue, 26 Sept 2017 | 01:00

"Whether it's 3 months or 6 months or 18 months, it is soon," Dunford responded.
"We ought to conduct ourselves as though it's just a matter of time and a matter of very short time before North Korea has that capability."
Dunford also agreed with Inhofe that it's especially difficult to get intelligence on North Korea even with the U.S. military's aerial snooping capabilities.
"The North Koreans over time have buried much of their capability underground, which creates new challenges," said the general.
"There's also some specific weather challenges in North Korea that limits our collection at various periods of time."
Besides satellites, the U.S. uses reconnaissance aircraft to monitor the North Koreans along with other means.
However, Dunford indicated that the U.S. military has faced other challenges over time in constantly tracking North Korea because of needs it sometimes has in other hotspots around the globe.
"Part of it also has been the competing demand for a limited amount of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance," said the general.
"Certainly over the last 18 months, we have increased our collection against North Korea.
But for a long period of time we had decreased our collection against North Korea."
Dunford also was asked about North Korea perhaps sharing its missile and other military technology with Iran.
"We have looked at the nexus quite a bit," said Dunford.
"I'm not sure we've seen any transfer of nuclear technology, but we certainly have seen missile technology and a wide range of other weapon systems that they have exported or expertise that they have exported outside of North Korea."
The Obama-era Iran nuclear deal and Iran's increased military presence in other countries also came up during the hearing.
There's a congressional requirement that the administration provide an assessment to Congress of Iran's compliance with the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) every 90 days.
Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) asked the general whether it was in America's national security interest to keep the JCPOA.
Dunford said it was the intelligence community's assessment that Iran is "in compliance right now.
Therefore, we should focus on addressing the other challenges  the missile threat they pose, the maritime threat they pose, the support of proxies, terrorists, and the cyber threat they pose."
Even so, the general said he doesn't plan to publicly share the advice he will give to the president on the Iran nuclear deal until Trump has announced a decision.
The Trump administration has certified Iran's compliance twice under the law, and the next deadline to provide an assessment is Oct. 15.
Trump, who had been sharply critical of the Iran nuclear deal, has indicated he's made his decision on whether Iran is in compliance but hasn't shared it.
In his written testimony to the Senate panel, Dunford said Iran hasn't changed its "malign" activities since the 2015 Iran nuclear deal went into effect.
However, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) asked the general if Iran had "increased the pace or scope of their malign activities."
"I think you can argue that they (Iran) have certainly in Syria," Dunford responded.
"It's been relatively consistent in Yemen with regard to their support for the Houthis, and clearly their support for Lebanese Hezbollah has been at a high level for some period of time.
And you can argue over the last few months, whether it's related to JCPOA or not, that Iranian activity inside Iraq has certainly increased as they look to the end game in Iraq."
Finally, Dunford said if U.S. forces are threatened by Iran "they are both postured and capable of effectively responding."
More than half a century ago, U.S. lawmakers sought to help Puerto Rico emerge from a colonial past, transforming its largely agrarian economy into a manufacturing powerhouse.
The effort, known as Operation Bootstrap, began with a series of tax breaks designed to attract manufacturers who would provide steady factory jobs.
For a time the plan seemed to work, as standards of living in Puerto Rico rose.
Between 1950 and 1980, per capita gross national product grew nearly tenfold in Puerto Rico, and disposable income and educational attainment rose sharply, according to the Center for a New Economy, a think tank based in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
One of those tax breaks, enacted in 1976, allowed U.S. manufacturing companies to avoid corporate income taxes on profits made in U.S. territories, including Puerto Rico.
Manufacturers, led by the pharmaceutical industry, flocked to the island.
But by the early 1990s, the provision faced growing opposition from critics who attacked the tax break as a form of corporate welfare.
Much like the current debate over corporations parking profits offshore to avoid taxes, tax reformers saw the provision, known as Section 936, as too costly for the Treasury.
The tax break also had some unintended consequences, notably the unfair tax burden that fell to domestic Puerto Rican companies.
In 1996, President Bill Clinton signed the law that would phase out Section 936 over 10 years.
Plant closures and job losses followed.
Ten years later, on the eve of the Great Recession, employment in Puerto Rico peaked.
Left with a dwindling tax base, the Puerto Rican government borrowed heavily to replace the lost revenue.
President Donald Trump earlier Tuesday harshly criticized the trio of Republicans who opposed thecontroversial Graham-Cassidy bill.
"We don't know why they did it," Trump said of Collins, John McCain of Arizona and Kentucky's Rand Paul.
"We are disappointed in certain so-called Republicans."
The GOP holds 52 seats in the Senate.
It needed 50 Republican senators to vote for the bill for it to pass, since no Democrat or independent would have voted for the legislation.
Collins' decision to oppose the bill Monday evening came minutes after the Congressional Budget Office, in a preliminary analysis, said that if Graham-Cassidy becomes law the number of people with health insurance that covers "high-cost medical events would be reduced by millions."
A wide array of groups representing health providers, insurers, patients and older Americans were opposed to the bill, which also was viewed negatively by much of the public, according to recent polls.
Driving that opposition was concern that if the bill became law, up to 20 million or more people would become uninsured, and premiums in the individual health plan market would rise significantly for people with pre-existing health conditions.
The CBO said that Graham-Cassidy would slash funding for Medicaid, which provides health coverage to primarily poor people, but $1 trillion over the next decade.
The bill would have repealed the Affordable Care Act mandates that require most Americans to have health insurance or pay a fine.
It also would have eliminated the ACA's system of subsidizing health insurance purchases on the individual market, and ended the expansion of Medicaid benefits to more poor adults.
In its place, the bill would have given individual states block grants of federal funds, which they then would have to use to create their own health-care coverage systems.
Graham said there is "universal agreement" among Senate Republicans that "Obamacare is failing, can't be repaired, it's structurally flawed."
But, he added, "the missing agreement for us as Republicans has been we know what we don't like.
Obamacare is not working, we make that case effectively.
But we've had a hard time articulating what we're for until now.
Now we have something to talk about that makes sense."
"The good news for America is Republicans are not just going to deliver on campaign promises, we're actually going to improve health care by giving you access to people who care more about you at home than any bureaucrat could do here in Washington," Graham said.
He said the bill is "a simple proposition, taking basically the same amount of money, in a fair way allocate it to the states."
Graham also said that by having states decide what to do with the money, Obamacare would be replaced "with a system closer to where you live, controlled by people you can vote for."
The liberal think tank Center on Budget and Policy Priorities said that despite Graham's claims, the bill would have reduced federal funding for individual insurance plan purchases and expansion of Medicaid benefits by more than $240 billion from 2020 to 2026.
In 2026, there would be 20 states whose block grant funding under the bill would have been anywhere between 35 and almost 60 percent below what they would have received under Obamacare, CBPP said.
In an analysis published Monday, the CBPP said the bill "would ultimately cause tens of millions of people to lose health coverage and weaken coverage for millions more."
Trump: I will be going to Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands 21 Hours Ago | 02:37

President Donald Trump on Tuesday defended his administration's handling of disaster recovery efforts in Puerto Rico, a week after the island was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
"We are literally unloading water and supplies on an hourly basis, and we're going to be deploying navy ships," Trump said during a joint news conference with Mariano Rajoy, the visiting president of the government of Spain.
"As we speak, FEMA, our great first responders, and all available federal resources, including the military, are being marshaled to save lives, protect families and begin a long and very, very difficult restoration process," Trump said.
He also pointed to comments from Puerto Rico's governor, Ricardo Rossello, praising the administration's response.
"Rossello just told me this morning, the entire federal workforce is doing great work in Puerto Rico.
And I appreciated his saying it.
And he's saying it to anybody that will listen," Trump said.
Earlier in the day, the president announced that he will visit Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands on Oct.3, two weeks after the Category 5 storm left nearly all of Puerto Rico without power or radio communications.
The Trump administration has faced growing criticism for the pace of its response.
"The Trump administration's response to the destruction in Puerto Rico has been wholly inadequate," Rep. Adam Smith, D-Wash., said in a recent statement.
"A territory of 3.5 million American citizens is almost completely without power, water, food, and telephone service, and we have a handful of helicopters involved in DOD's response.
It's a disgrace."
Officials on the U.S. commonwealth have warned that the island faces an impending "humanitarian crisis" unless more supplies and rescue workers are deployed.
Sen. Bob Corker, who has at times served as an ally and a critic of President Donald Trump, will not seek re-election next year.
The 65-year-old Republican from Tennessee announced his decision on Tuesday.
Corker, who was first elected in 2006, said he told people then that he "couldn't imagine serving more than two terms."
"I also believe the most important public service I have to offer our country could well occur over the next 15 months, and I want to be able to do that as thoughtfully and independently as I did the first 10 years and nine months of my Senate career," the senator said in a statement.
The vacancy in Tennessee opens a long-shot opportunity for Democrats in a traditionally red state.
Trump easily won the state in last year's presidential election with more than 60 percent of the vote.
GOP Sen. Lamar Alexander and Corker easily won their 2014 and 2012 re-elections, respectively, with more than 60 percent of the vote.
Corker is the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Trump reportedly considered him for secretary of State.
The Treasury Department on Tuesday ratcheted up the pressure on North Korea by putting sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation in its effort to cut off financial support for Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs.
The measure targets eight North Korean banks and 26 people "linked to North Korean financial networks," the Treasury said.
The individuals  North Korean nationals  represent the country's banks and work in China, Russia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates, the department said.
"This further advances our strategy to fully isolate North Korea in order to achieve our broader objectives of a peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.
"This action is also consistent with UN Security Council Resolutions."
The action comes as the international community has tried to use economic pressure to push the communist dictatorship to end its nuclear ambitions.
In two recent unanimous votes, the United Nations Security Council put new sanctions on Pyongyang.
The Treasury described one package approved this month as "the strongest sanctions ever imposed on North Korea."
In a news conference with Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, on Tuesday, Trump kept up the heated rhetoric.
The president said, "If we have to take" the military option in North Korea, "we will."
Trump added that it would prove "devastating" for Pyongyang.
Tuesday's sanctions block the individuals' property or interests within the United States.
They follow President Donald Trump's Thursday executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
So far, economic measures have not deterred Pyongyang from a string of missile tests and an apparent hydrogen bomb test.
Trump and the North Korean regime have exchanged fiery rhetoric in recent days as tensions escalate.
North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused Trump of declaring war, saying that gives Pyongyang the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Ri Yong Ho referred to a Saturday Trump tweet in which he said the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, whom Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
President Donald Trump on Tuesday revealed that the Republican tax reform plan will include a near doubling of the standard deduction for both individuals and families.
"We will cut taxes tremendously for the middle class," Trump said at the White House.
"That includes nearly doubling the standard deduction that most families take on their taxes and increasing the child tax credit."
Within moments of Trump's remarks, reports emerged that the Republican proposal will raise the standard individual deduction to $12,000 from its current rate of $6,350, and the deduction for a married couple to $24,000, up from $12,700.
Trump's comments reflect a growing consensus between the White House and congressional negotiators about precisely what the GOP tax reform plan will entail.
And not a moment too soon: both Trump and House Republican leaders plan to unveil what they call a "framework for tax reform" on Wednesday.
This framework will also reportedly include a major cut to the corporate tax rate, bringing it to 20 percent from 35 percent, as well as a reduction in the top individual rate, to 35 percent from its current 39.6 percent.
Rates in the lowest tax bracket, however, may actually increase, from 10 percent to 12 percent, according to a report Tuesday from Axios.
The White House and a spokeswoman for the House Ways and Means Committee did not respond to a request for comment on the Axios report, or a request to confirm the proposed standard deduction rates.
Trump met Tuesday with a bipartisan group of House Ways and Means Committee members.
The tax-writing committee is currently drafting the House's version of Trump's promised tax reform bill.
"I look forward to working with the members of Congress gathered here today to pass the reform and the massive tax cuts that our country desperately needs to thrive, to grow, to prosper," the president said.
"If we do this, we will create millions of new jobs for our people and bring many, many businesses back to our shores.
We will become a competitive nation again."
The Federal Reserve may have overstated the strength of the labor market and the rate of inflation, which could lead to monetary policy ahead that will be easier than previously thought, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said Tuesday.
In a speech delivered to the National Association for Business Economics in Cleveland, Yellen admitted that trends in employment and wage and price pressures have shifted from what central bank forecasters expected.
The result would be an even more dovish Fed when it comes to removing the historically aggressive policy accommodation in place since the financial crisis.
"My colleagues and I may have misjudged the strength of the labor market, the degree to which longer-run inflation expectations are consistent with our inflation objective, or even the fundamental forces driving inflation," Yellen said, according to prepared remarks.
The speech comes less than a week after the policymaking Federal Open Market Committee approved the first steps in unwinding some of the stimulus the Fed has provided since late-2008.
The central bank will begin rolling off some of the bonds it holds on its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
In addition, the FOMC has been slowly raising rates, though it chose not to do so at the September meeting.
The committee lowered its expectations for inflation ahead and said its longer-run benchmark interest rate is probably a quarter point below earlier projections.
Yellen said a regular pace of rate hikes ahead is likely still warranted, though Fed officials are looking closely at the assumptions underlying those projections.
While conceding that the Fed may need to slow the removal of accommodation, she also said the central bank "should also be wary of moving too gradually."
Addressing current economic conditions, Yellen said the Fed still expects longer-run inflation to trend toward the 2 percent target policymakers believe is healthy for economic growth.
However, she said they are making room for the possibility that they're wrong.
Last week, we learned that Treasury Secretary Steve "Can I borrow a government jet for my honeymoon" Mnuchin isn't the only one in the Trump administration who goes to great, taxpayer-funded lengths to avoid taking commercial flights like some kind of commoner.
Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, too, has all but made it a rule that he must travel via chartered planes, following a traumatic incident wherein the former congressman suffered through a flight delay.
(Never again, he swore.)
According to an investigation by Politico, since being confirmed, Price has taken private planes for official business at a cost of at least $400,000 to taxpayers, often for short trips like from D.C. to Philadelphia where airline tickets run in the low hundreds, and a car or train ride would have just as easily sufficed.
In contrast, Price's predecessor, Kathleen Sebelius took just one private flight during her five-plus years on the job, to a remote part of Alaska that would have been otherwise unreachable.
Invoicing taxpayers to avoid even the possibility of being delayed was never going to be a great look.
But for Price, the optics are especially bad because 1) he is currently working to cut billions of dollars in health-care subsidies and slash funding from the National Institutes of Health and 2) back when he was a congressman, he literally made railing against the use of private jets by government employees one of his pet causes.
GOP tax plan could trash the value of two popular tax breaks 19 Hours Ago | 00:45

Details leaking out about the Republican tax reform plan hint that while two popular deductions would remain intact, they'd become useless to the majority of taxpayers who now take advantage of them.
GOP lawmakers have signaled they'll retain the tax breaks for mortgage interest and charitable contributions even as they pursue eliminating others.
Yet given that President Donald Trump on Tuesday said that the plan is to nearly double the standard deduction, "many current itemizers would choose that instead, so a lot less people would use those deductions," said Joseph Rosenberg, a senior research associate at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
Currently, taxpayers choose between the standard deduction or itemized deductions and use whichever amount is greater to reduce their tax bill.
For 2017, the standard deduction is $6,350 for individual taxpayers, $9,350 for heads of households and $12,700 for joint filers.
In other words, if those amounts nearly double as discussed by both Trump and congressional Republicans, a married couple would need deductions to exceed $24,000 to make itemizing worthwhile.
The Tax Policy Center estimates that of the 45 million tax filers who itemize, 38 million, or 84 percent, would opt for the $24,000 standard deduction because it would exceed the combined value of other deductions available to them.
Trump is expected to deliver a speech Wednesday in Indianapolis that will offer more specifics about what plan will emerge in Congress, although it's unclear how detailed the reveal will be.
President Donald Trump fell for Iranian fake news.
On September 22, Iran released video footage of a missile test, just a few hours after the country displayed a projectile during a military parade.
The next day, Trump responded on Twitter.
"Iran just test-fired a Ballistic Missile capable of reaching Israel.
They are also working with North Korea.
Not much of an agreement we have!"
he said, referring to the Iran nuclear deal.
The problem is the Iranian video shows images from a failed missile launch in January, and US intelligence officials say they "picked up no indication" of a new test.
Israeli security officials also confirm the video shows images from earlifer this year.
More from Vox:



Experts on North Korea's latest threat: "This is how war by miscalculation starts"

Angela Merkel wins 4th term as chancellor of Germany

Why London is banning Uber from its streets

When asked by Vox about the video and the test, both National Security Council and State Department spokespeople noted that the government was still looking into media reports about them.
Spokespeople from the Defense Department didn't immediately respond to inquiries.
This is no ordinary faux pas by Trump.
The president signaled his intention to remove the US from the Iran deal last week at the United Nations General Assembly.
Any provocative action by Iran  like a missile test  only provides fodder for his rationale to rip up the deal.
But yesterday, European diplomats defended the agreement at an event at the Atlantic Council think tank, with French Ambassador Grard Araud claiming "the agreement is working as it is."
But the fact that a test-that-wasn't possibly threatened a multinational agreement is jarring  and shows just much the deal seems to ride on Trump's own whims.
The abrupt resignation of Equifax CEO Richard Smith on Tuesday is a smart move for the credit-report service company, according to one Wall Street firm.
"We believe the immediate retirement is a political positive for the company," Cowen financial services policy analyst Jaret Seiberg wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.
"Our view has been that the political pressure for Smith's departure was going to be overwhelming so that it would be better for the company to do this in advance of the hearings next week so it could get credit for the action rather than be perceived as bowing to congressional pressure."
Smith is expected to testify on the company's data breach before the House Energy and Senate Banking committees on Oct. 3 and Oct. 4 respectively.
"These hearings will still be brutal with Democrats and Republicans on the attack.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren is especially adept at using these hearings to paint the picture she wants of how a corporation acted," he wrote.
"So there is still a risk that Equifax is perceived as not doing enough."
Equifax shares fell 1.7 percent in early trading on Tuesday.
The company did not return an email asking for comment.
President Donald Trump says he'll visit hurricane-ravaged Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
Trump announced the visit after the administration came under criticism for its response to the damage on the island that is home to more than 3 million U.S. citizens.
The island has been coping with shortages of food, drinking water, electricity and various forms of communication after Hurricane Maria struck earlier this month.
Trump said Tuesday is the earliest he can visit without disrupting recovery operations.
He says he may also visit the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Trump says Puerto Rico is important to him.
He says Puerto Ricans are "great people and we need to help them."
This was supposed to be a big week for President Trump.
His hopes of repealing and replacing Obamacare hang in the balance.
He's set to push a major tax reform plan.
He's campaigned hard for a Republican candidate whose Alabama primary race is on Tuesday.
And he's trying to project strength and efficiency as his administration grapples with the aftermath of hurricanes in Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico  and the nuclear threat from North Korea.
So what's Trump talking about at the start of this critical week?
More from USA Today:

Analysis: Trump's approach to sports breaks with long bipartisan tradition

Sanders on Trump's NFL insults: 'It's always appropriate' for president to defend flag

Equifax CEO retiring amid cyberbreach fallout

Football players.
So far, Trump appears to be forgoing a closing argument on his policy proposals  and instead escalating his feud with the National Football League and superstar athletes.
Ever since he called football players who sit or kneel during the national anthem "sons of b-----" at a rally on Friday and encouraged the NFL to fire them for their political protest, Trump has perpetuated the controversy  for four straight days.
Trump has tweeted or retweeted comments about the NFL flap at least 18 times since Saturday morning.
Star football and basketball athletes have in turn accused Trump of racially charged threats to free speech  and the squabble playing out over Twitter and the news media is dwarfing his message on the rest of his agenda.
That may be the plan, some analysts said, because many of those other issues aren't going so well.
"Trump will always change the subject if there's something bad going on," said Republican strategist Rich Galen.
Others said it's just Trump being Trump  responding to whatever catches his eye.
"I think it's classic Trump, listening to his gut and letting it rip," said Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to Republican President George W. Bush.
Whatever his motivation, Trump is ensuring that his feud with pro sports is getting a stadium full of attention at a pivotal time for an administration facing low approval ratings, political divisions among Republicans, and even threats of war over North Korea.
In the Senate, Republicans are struggling to round up enough votes behind a plan to repeal and replace President Barack Obama's health care law.
The Republicans are racing against the clock.
After Sept. 30, the chamber's rules change and lawmakers won't be able to pass a new bill with just 50 votes.
This is critical, since past health care efforts to overhaul health care have failed even with 52 Republicans.
A health care success could give Trump legislative momentum as he lobbies for a tax reform; a defeat could make it that much tougher.
Trump is launching a national tour of political battleground states to promote a package to reduce the corporate tax rate and simplify the tax code.
On Wednesday, he is scheduled to visit Indiana to discuss tax reform.
Trump himself faces a big political test on Tuesday, in a political primary race taking place in a hotbed for college football: Alabama.
The president has gone out of his way to back Sen. Luther Strange, who was appointed to the seat after Trump named Jeff Sessions as attorney general.
Strange is opposed Roy Moore, who is backed by prominent Trump supporters such as former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and former White House senior adviser Steve Bannon.
Polls give Moore an edge  and a Strange loss would deal Trump a defeat in his personal efforts to reshape the Republican Party.
In his remarks to at the rally, Trump said he was taking a "big risk" with his endorsement of Strange "because if Luther doesn't make it they're going to go after me" and argue he has no political strength.
"I might have made a mistake and I'll be honest I might have made a mistake.
Because, you know, here's a story, if Luther doesn't win, they're not going to say we picked up 25 points in a very short period of time," he said.
"They're going to say Donald Trump, the president of the United States, was unable to pull his candidate across the line.
It is a terrible, terrible moment for Trump.
This is total embarrassment.
I mean, these are bad people."
Yet Trump's support for Strange on Friday night in Huntsville were not what generated the headlines from the rally.
Instead, there was one epic line that's still circulating on the media: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say get that son of a bitch off the field right now?
He's fired!
he's fired!"
Trump told a cheering crowd.
Trump's follow-up tweets throughout the weekend  including one in which he uninvited pro basketball champions Golden State Warriors to the White House  drew hits from a succession of pro athletes.
They ranged from basketball's LeBron James, who called Trump a "bum," to football's Tom Brady, who said Trump's comments were "just divisive."
The sports question dominated the White House press briefing on Monday.
Pressed about whether Trump went too far by using the words "sons of b----," spokeswoman Sarah Sanders repeatedly deflected, insisting it was "always appropriate" for the president of the United States to defend the American flag and national anthem.
"Look, this isn't about the president being against anyone," she said.
"But this is about the president and millions of Americans being for something, being for honoring our flag, honoring our national anthem and honoring the men and women who fought to defend it."
It's not just domestic policy challenges that Trump is facing this week.
Trump went to the United Nations last week to confront North Korea over its nuclear weapons program.
Describing Kim Jong Un as "Rocket Man," Trump said the North Korean leader is risking "suicide" if it attacks the United States or its allies in Asia  and raised the specter of nuclear warfare.
On Monday in New York, North Korean foreign minister Ri Yong Ho told reporters his country regards Trump's comments as a declaration of war.
"Since the U.S. declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down the U.S. bombers even when they are not yet inside the airspace border of our country," he said.
Also hovering over the administration: An ongoing investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into possible links between Trump's team and Russians who sought to influence last year's presidential election, and whether the president sought to obstruct justice by firing FBI Director James Comey.
"Don't forget he's got Mueller breathing down his neck," Republican strategist Galen said.
Changing the subject has been a habit for Trump, whether it's holding a 77-minute news conference in order to generate new headlines after firing National Security Adviser Michael Flynn or claiming there were millions of illegal voters after he lost the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Republican consultant Liz Mair, who worked with "Never Trump" organizations during last year's campaign, said the bottom line is whether Trump has "successfully distracted his base" from bad news stories.
The NFL flap may look "stupid and ham-handed to a lot of Beltway consultant types," Mair said, but remember: It could work for him because millions of Americans agree with his position.
"Ultimately, there's a lot of data out there showing that sports fans really do rally to the national anthem," Mair said.
"If the numbers of players who take a knee rises and that's perceived as anti-national anthem or anti-flag, it could become a big repetitional problem for the NFL and individual teams, fairly or not."
Fleischer, who now runs a sports communications company, said Trump made a valid point in bad way, particularly with the reference to "sons of b----."
The flap surrounding his comments is the kind of thing that has happened before, he said, and will likely happen again.
"This has been the Trump candidacy and the Trump presidency for two years now," he said.
"It's his style."
The framework also gives Congress the option of creating a higher, fourth, rate above 35 percent to ensure that the rich are paying their fair share.
But it does not specify what income levels would be associated with the higher rate, what that new rate might be or explicitly direct Congress to implement a fourth bracket.
The plan aims to simplify and cut taxes for the middle class by doubling the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and to $24,000 for married couples.
That would allow people to avoid a complicated process of itemizing their taxes to claim various credits and deductions.
It would also increase the child tax credit from $1,000 to an unspecified amount and create a new $500 tax credit for dependents, such as the elderly, who are not children.
Provisions such as the alternative minimum tax and the estate tax, a tax on inherited wealth which Mr. Trump has derided over the years, would be gone under the Republican proposal.
Most itemized deductions, including those widely used for state and local tax expenses, would also be eliminated.
However, the plan would preserve the deductions for mortgage interest expenses and charitable giving and keep incentives for education and retirement savings plans.
The changes to taxation for companies would be equally dramatic.
The proposal calls for reducing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, a shift that is intended to make American companies more competitive with their counterparts around the world.
A new tax rate would be created for so-called pass-through businesses.
These businesses, partnerships and sole proprietorships whose profits pass through to their owners, would be taxed at a rate of 25 percent, not the individual rate of their owners, like under the current law.
About 95 percent of businesses in the United States are structured as pass-throughs and they generate a majority of the governments corporate tax revenue.
As with the individual side, some of the thornier business tax issues remain unaddressed.
It will be left to Congress to create safeguards that prevent wealthy individuals from incorporating as pass-through businesses, which would tax their income at a lower rate.
Another administration official insisted that measures would be put in place so that there are not games played in this regard.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Another big change for companies would be a limitation of the deductibility for corporate interest expenses in exchange for the opportunity to immediately expense business investments.
The ability to write these expenses off immediately would last only five years, and the limitations for deducting interest have yet to be determined.
This is expected to set off a fight among business groups, many seeking either full deductibility or permanent immediate expensing.
The plan also calls on the tax committees to eliminate most of the tax credits that businesses currently use.
Among those that would remain are the prized tax credit for research and development and the low-income-housing credit, which many Democrats support.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Perhaps the most major yet murky shift on the business side is the move from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system.
In theory this means that companies would not be taxed on their overseas earnings, but to prevent erosion of the tax base, Republicans plan to impose some form of tax on foreign profits at a rate that has yet to be determined.
The transition to the new system would also include a one-time repatriation tax to encourage companies to bring offshore profits back to the United States.
There would be different repatriation rates for different types of assets, but as with many parts of the proposal, the rates would be up to Congress to decide.
Members of the Senate Budget Committee have agreed on a budget resolution that would allow for a $1.5 trillion tax cut over 10 years.
Studies of similar plans produced by Mr. Trump and House Republicans have been projected to cost $3 trillion to $7 trillion over a decade.
The Republicans pitching the plan say economic growth will compensate for lost revenue.
During the campaign, Mr. Trump said overhauling the tax code would raise economic growth to 4 percent.
Mr. Stone said on Tuesday that although he was not familiar with the details of Mr. Manaforts finances, he believed that federal prosecutors were trying to pressure the former campaign chairman into testifying that members of the Trump campaign colluded with Russians to disrupt the election.
I think whats happening here is that the special counsel will try to manufacture a crime and then say, Look, Manafort, we wont prosecute you for this if you simply admit you were colluding with the Russians and Donald Trump knew everything, Mr. Stone said.
In other words, bear false witness against the president.
Ive known Paul Manafort for over 40 years, and I dont believe he is going to do that.
He is not going to lie, and that would be a lie.
Mr. Stone also said he told the Intelligence Committee that he never worked with Russians to aid Mr. Trumps campaign, and that he was unaware of any evidence that showed Russian collusion with any member of the Trump campaign, Trump family, Donald Trump, Trump associates, Trump friends, Trump supporters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He said he did admit to the committee that he once exchanged messages with someone claiming to be Guccifer 2.0, an online persona that American officials believe was a front in the Russian hacking efforts and responsible for copying thousands of emails from the Democratic National Committee.
Mr. Stone said he did not know about hacks in advance, and called the exchanges with the suspected hacker benign and innocuous.
He said that a journalist had connected him with Guccifer 2.0, but he refused to name the journalist because he had spoken to the person off the record.
Im not going to burn somebody who I spoke to off the record, Mr. Stone said.
If he releases me, if he allows me to release it, I would be happy to give it to the committee.
Im actually going to try to do that.
Mr. Stones refusal to name the person who had helped him make contact with Guccifer 2.0 seemed to frustrate Democrats on the committee.
There was one significant area of seminal importance to the committee that Mr. Stone was unwilling to answer our questions, said Representative Adam B. Schiff, the top Democrat on the committee.
We hope that he will cooperate in the future.
If not, it will be necessary to subpoena him to bring him back to answer those important questions.
Mr. Schiff does not have the power to unilaterally issue a subpoena to Mr. Stone.
Committee rules require that any subpoena have the signature of Representative Devin Nunes, the California Republican who is chairman of the committee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Stone, a self-proclaimed political dirty trickster, said he would be open to returning to the committee under the right circumstances, and called Tuesdays appearance a very frank exchange.
We hope we can move forward and improve health care, not engage in another battle to take it away from people, because they will fail once again if they try, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
The decision by Senate Republican leaders may prove to be a milestone in the decades-long fight over health insurance in the United States, suggesting that the Affordable Care Act had gained at least a reprieve and perhaps a measure of political acceptance.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the panel, have been working on legislation to stabilize insurance markets and hold down premiums in the next couple of years.
Both said on Tuesday that they hoped to resume those efforts.
Millions of people who buy insurance on their own face sharp increases in premiums next year, and Trump administration officials have taken a number of steps that have already undermined the operations of the health law.
And health care is sure to be an issue in next years midterm elections.
Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Senate Republican leadership, said the concept behind the Graham-Cassidy bill would help Republicans define their differences with Democrats in the campaign season.
Single payer, socialism  or federalism, returning power to the states to make decisions, Mr. Thune said.
I think thats a great contrast for us, and I think thats an argument eventually we can win.
For their part, Democrats have tried to use health care as a bludgeon against the few Senate Republican targets they have next year, mainly Senators Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We know Republicans like Dean Heller and Jeff Flake wont stop until they force Americans to pay more for less, and we will make sure voters hold them accountable for it, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said in a statement this week.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have taken money provided under the Affordable Care Act for insurance subsidies and the expansion of Medicaid and sent it to states in the form of block grants.
The bills demise was welcomed by consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and insurance executives who mobilized opposition to the proposal.
The Congressional Budget Office said Monday that the bill would have reduced projected federal Medicaid spending by $1 trillion over a decade, added millions of Americans to the ranks of the uninsured and eliminated consumer protections for some people with pre-existing conditions.
Senate Republicans tried in July to approve a repeal bill, but that attempt ended in defeat when Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, gave a thumbs-down, killing that version of the legislation.
This time, Senate Republicans were trying to pass a different proposal, and a deadline was fast approaching: They had only until the end of this week to pass a repeal bill using special budget rules that shield it from a Democratic filibuster.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. McConnell had planned for a vote before that deadline, but he could afford to lose only two Republicans.
By Tuesday, three members of his party had already gone public with their firm opposition: Ms. Collins, Mr. McCain and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.
None of the three senators seemed likely to change their minds.
Mr. McCain detested the hasty, partisan process used to push the bill; Ms. Collins had broad concerns about the legislations effects on health care; and Mr. Paul objected to the fundamental architecture of the bill, which in his view constituted fake repeal.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he saw no reason for the Senate to vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you dont have the votes, he said, I dont see why we would waste the time of the Senate.
And other Republican senators might have opposed it had party leaders moved forward.
In a statement released after Senate Republicans decided not to do so, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who voted against the last repeal attempt in July, denounced what she described as a lousy process.
The U.S. Senate cannot get the text of a bill on a Sunday night, then proceed to a vote just days later, with only one hearing  and especially not on an issue that is intensely personal to all of us, Ms. Murkowski said, without saying which way she would have voted.
Mr. Cassidy was blunt: We dont have the votes, he said, adding, Am I disappointed?
Absolutely.
And Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia, was left fuming.
I am kind of disgusted that after nine months, the self-interest is still outweighing the national interest in our caucus in some ways, he said.
But Mr. Graham still held out the hope that the repeal proposal would pass  just later, after Republicans tackle taxes, and when Republicans can consider the repeal plan in a more deliberative fashion.
There are 50 votes for the substance, Mr. Graham said.
There are not 50 votes for the process.
But that could be months away  if not years.
The tax effort will probably occupy Congress through the remainder of this year, and into next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After tackling the tax overhaul, Republicans could make another attempt at passing a health bill without needing any Democratic votes.
But such an undertaking would require passing yet another budget blueprint, in order to protect the bill from a Democratic filibuster, and it would put health care front and center as lawmakers head into the midterm elections.
Even as Republicans shift their focus to taxes, pressure is building for a bipartisan response to the problems of the health care system.
The Alexander-Murray stabilization package has two main elements: money for subsidies paid to insurance companies, to reimburse them for reducing out-of-pocket costs for low-income people, and more freedom for states to revamp their insurance markets.
Democrats see the cost-sharing subsidy payments as essential.
But many Republicans, including Mr. Trump, have described them as a bailout for insurance companies that would prop up the Affordable Care Act.
I think most of the members would suggest they really dont know that they can stabilize the product at this stage of the game, said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota.
I think theres a number of them that are going to be very hesitant to try to put more money into a system that they are convinced is going south.
Earlier Tuesday, with little hope of success in the Senate, Mr. Trump expressed his displeasure.
At some point there will be a repeal and replace, but well see whether or not that point is now or will it be shortly thereafter, he said at the White House.
But we are disappointed in certain so-called Republicans.
The failure in the Senate was also a disappointment to Republicans in the House, who managed to pass a repeal bill in May after their own struggles.
Were a little frustrated that the Senate has not acted on a seminal promise, said Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
Then he returned to talking up the need for a tax overhaul.
Mr. Trump had tweeted his support for Mr.
Strange several times in recent days, but tweets appeared to be deleted on Tuesday night.
Mr. Trump offered congratulations to Mr. Moore in a tweet.
Luther Strange started way back & ran a good race.
Roy, WIN in Dec!
he wrote.
In a race that began as something of a political afterthought and ended up showcasing the rights enduring divisions, the victory by Mr. Moore, one of the most tenacious figures in Alabama politics, will likely embolden other anti-establishment conservatives to challenge incumbent Republicans in next years midterm elections.
And more immediately, the party will be forced to wrestle with how to prop up an often-inflammatory candidate given to provocative remarks on same-sex marriage and race  all to protect a seat in a deep-red state.
Mr. Moores incendiary rhetoric will also oblige others in the party to answer for his comments, perhaps for years to come, at a time when many Republicans would just as soon move on from the debate over gay rights.
On Dec. 12, Mr. Moore will face Doug Jones, a former federal prosecutor and the Democratic nominee, in a race that will test the party loyalties of center-right voters who may be uneasy about their nominee.
It may also reveal just how reliably Republican the state has become in the quarter-century since a Democrat last won a Senate election here.
Mr. Jones said in an interview Tuesday afternoon that he believed voters would reward a candidate focused on kitchen-table issues, and said Alabamas public reputation was at stake in the election.
People are tired of being embarrassed in this state, Mr. Jones said.
People want to see someone who can get things done.
Photo

But Mr. Moore, 70, has proved himself to be a political survivor.
He has been effectively removed from the State Supreme Court twice  the first in 2003, over his refusal to remove a statue of the Ten Commandments in the courthouse; the second last year, when he urged the states probate judges to defy federal orders regarding same-sex marriage.
And in recent days, both the president and Vice President Mike Pence had campaigned for Mr.
Strange.
Mr. Trump, an enormously popular figure in Alabama, cast aside the tradition of presidents treading carefully in contested primaries, as well as the warnings from his own advisers regarding a candidate trailing in the polls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Yet instead of delivering a tightly crafted testimonial at a rally on Friday, the president rambled for nearly an hour and a half about a range of topics, while openly questioning whether he was making a mistake coming into the state for Mr.
Strange, who oriented his entire run around Mr. Trumps endorsement and stood looking on with a red Make America Great Again hat atop his head.
Strange conceded defeat on Tuesday night before a subdued audience at a hotel outside of Birmingham, acknowledging in a moment of striking candor that he did not fully grasp the forces at play in his loss.
Were dealing with a political environment that Ive never had any experience with, Mr.
Strange said.
The political seas, the political winds in this country right now are very hard to navigate.
Theyre very hard to understand.
He thanked Mr. Trump effusively, praising the president as a loyal friend and attempting to absolve him of any blame for the result.
If this causes him any trouble, Mr.
Strange said, its not his fault.
Mr. Stranges defeat was the first time an incumbent senator with active White House support has lost since 2010, when Arlen Specter, the longtime senator of Pennsylvania, was beaten in a Democratic primary after switching parties.
But his loss was not just a blow to Mr. Trump.
Mr. Moore relentlessly linked the senator to Mr. McConnell, who has made a priority of protecting his caucus from intraparty challenges, but is an increasingly polarizing figure among grass-roots Republicans.
Despite the money and staff he directed to the race, Mr. McConnell became as much a liability as he was an asset, leaving Republicans nervously wondering what that may portend in other primaries next year.
On Tuesday night, Mr. McConnell said in a statement that he understood Mr. Moore had channeled a dissatisfaction with the progress made in Washington.
Saying that he shared that frustration, Mr. McConnell said he was determined to help Mr. Moore win, and made no references to the bitter attacks on his leadership by Mr. Moore and his allies.
Mr. McConnell and his allies were jolted with another reminder of their limited control earlier in the day, when Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, a popular incumbent, announced he would not run for re-election.
As the first senator to opt out of seeking another term in 2018, Mr. Corker opened the way for another rowdy Southern primary in which the national partys influence may be sorely tested.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Stephen K. Bannon, an ousted White House adviser and an enthusiastic backer of Mr. Moore, crowed about Mr. Corkers retirement in brief remarks before Mr. Moore took the stage on Tuesday night.
Mr. Bannon predicted a populist revolution would follow the Alabama results.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Stranges demise was in some respects as much a local phenomenon as a national one, stemming from his appointment this year by then-Gov.
Robert Bentley to fill the seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Strange, the states attorney general at the time, was overseeing an investigation into Mr. Bentleys personal relationship with a close aide, suggesting to many in a scandal-weary state that there may have been a corrupt bargain.
The newly appointed senator denied any wrongdoing, but never fully confronted the issue in a way that would eliminate the lingering cloud over the appointment.
And by Monday, an adviser to Mr. McConnell, anticipating defeat, started to privately make the case that it was Mr. Bentleys scandal and the circumstances around the appointment that was most to blame for Mr. Stranges lackluster support.
Mr. Stranges status as a proxy for the Republican establishment and a test of the presidents sway came about almost by accident  a consequence of factors having little to do with Mr.
Strange himself.
The Senate Republican leader treated Mr.
Strange as the political equal of his elected colleagues and ordered strategists in Washington not to work against him.
Mr. McConnell and a host of other senators lobbied an initially reluctant Mr. Trump to get involved on Mr. Stranges behalf over the objections of some advisers.
The confusing crosscurrents of the party were on vivid display when the president campaigned for Mr.
Strange on Friday.
As staff members from the partys campaign arm allied with Mr. McConnell looked on, Mr.
Strange told the conservative audience that they should elect him so he could stand up to Mr. McConnell.
And then the president took the stage and assured attendees he would back Mr. Moore were Mr.
Strange to lose, comments that were soon made into an online ad by an anti-establishment conservative group.
Strange made little attempt to find a new, more moderate universe of voters in the runoff who would recoil from the thought of Mr. Moore as their senator, a strategy fashioned next door in Mississippi when Senator Thad Cochran found himself in a runoff with a hard-line primary challenger in 2014.
In fact, some strategists who had been with Mr. Cochrans campaign said they did not hear from Mr. Stranges advisers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The perils of presidential involvement were obvious to some, and conservative allies of Mr. Trump, including Mr. Bannon, had counseled him not to meddle in Alabama.
But he was not the only prominent figure here to gamble on Mr.
Strange.
Senator Richard Shelby, a pillar of Alabama politics for over 45 years, dispensed with his usual caution to support a longtime friend.
But he saw how the political winds were blowing well before Tuesday.
On a get-out-the-vote conference call with Mr. Stranges supporters this month, he recounted an anecdote about the 1970 Democratic governors race here between Albert Brewer, a racial moderate, and the segregationist George C. Wallace, a divisive figure in his time.
After it became clear that Mr. Wallace had won, the University of Alabamas young, progressive president, F. David Mathews, mournfully turned to his family and said they would have to get used to living with George Wallace.
Now, Mr. Shelby said, they may have to get used to living with Mr. Moore in the Senate, where he could be just as divisive.
But that story line never broke through.
In fact, the race spotlighted growing divisions between establishment Republicans personified by Mr. McConnell and his allies and Trump Republicans, even though it was Mr.
Strange who had the presidents endorsement.
The gap was so wide that when Mr. Trump campaigned for Mr.
Strange, he tried to distance Mr.
Strange from Mr. McConnell.
They say hes friendly with Mitch  he doesnt even know Mitch McConnell, Mr. Trump told a raucous crowd of several thousand people.
That wasnt quite true.
The Senate Leadership Fund, a political action committee that Mr. McConnell helped found, spent nearly $9 million trying to elect Mr.
Strange, said Steven Law, its president and chief executive officer.
With Democrats across the country energized by the election of Mr. Trump, some analysts say Democrats now have an outside chance to pick up the seat  even in a deeply conservative state like Alabama.
But if Mr. Moore wins, he will almost certainly be a wild card in the Senate, where Mr. McConnell is already struggling to keep his majority of 52 Republicans in line.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The stakes here are high, said Scott Jennings, a Republican strategist who is close to Mr. McConnell.
His majority of 52 is slim and its even slimmer when you consider at any given time there are four to six of them who are contrarians.
So if you take out a Luther, who is not a contrarian, and you throw in a Roy Moore, whos going to be a contrarian, that makes the majority even less effective and productive.
And it could get worse  much worse.
Buoyed by Mr. Moores victory, conservatives like the former Trump strategist Stephen K. Bannon and Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, now speak of separating Trumpism from Mr. Trump, and they are throwing themselves behind insurgent populists around the country.
Already, Trumpist candidates have emerged to challenge Senators Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona in Republican primaries next year.
Mr. Bannon is courting another firebrand, State Senator Chris McDaniel, to challenge Senator Roger Wicker of Mississippi, who embodies low-key country-club Republicanism.
And Mr. Bannon and allies are looking for a populist candidate to run for Tennessees Senate seat, which opened up Tuesday when Senator Bob Corker, a Republican, announced that he would not run for re-election.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Victories by such candidates would drastically remake the Senate, and could threaten Mr. McConnells leadership.
Already, conservatives are smelling blood in the water.
Today, every conservative in America wishes they had a Roy Moore running for the Senate in their state.
said Richard Viguerie, the conservative direct mail guru.
He called Mr. Moores victory a stunning rejection of Mitch McConnells corrupt and incompetent leadership.
In the Senate, Mr. McConnell has a deep well of support within his caucus, in part because he is so effective a raising money to re-elect them.
Even so, Republicans are clearly frustrated by the legislative gridlock that has gripped the chamber, especially the on-again, off-again effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
The latest effort ended on Tuesday when Mr. McConnell concluded that he did not have the votes to pass the so-called Graham-Cassidy bill, which would have taken money spent under the law and given it to the states in the form of block grants.
I wasnt sent up here to sit around and talk, complained Senator John Kennedy, a freshman Republican from Louisiana.
I was sent up here to make ordinary Americans lives better.
But Mr. Kennedy said he did not blame Mr. McConnell for being unable to muster the 50 votes necessary to pass the bill by Saturday, when a special rule allowing passage with a simple majority will expire.
This is not a Mitch McConnell problem, he said.
Hes got a lot more patience than I would have had.
In one telling moment, Mr. McConnell let Mr. Graham break the news that leadership did not have the votes  a signal that it was Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy, and not the leadership, who had fallen short.
Mr. Thune suggested Mr. McConnell  who had declared the health care repeal effort dead when an earlier effort failed in July  played a hands-off role this time.
He saw that this thing was gaining some momentum, Mr. Thune said, and I think he wanted to give it an opportunity to breathe a little bit, and see if they didnt have a way of getting to 50.
The DeVos family, heirs to the multibillion-dollar Amway fortune, has long been controversial in Michigan for spending big on conservative political causes, but Betsy DeVoss elevation brings new national prominence to the clan, which also includes her brother, Erik D. Prince, a founder of the private security firm formerly known as Blackwater.
Prince is under fire for advocating privatization of United States military missions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

About 16 percent of the $3.5 million annual budget for the nonprofit ArtPrize comes from the various DeVos foundations, according to 2016 tax disclosures, with the rest from other foundations and local and national business support.
Rick DeVos, a tech entrepreneur, is chairman of ArtPrizes board, and family members donate generously and sit on the boards of many institutions that are among the 175 ArtPrize showplaces.
Mr. DeVos was unavailable to comment, an ArtPrize publicist said.
Nobody from the Dick & Betsy DeVos Family Foundation responded to a request for comment, and Ms. DeVos did not answer an inquiry sent to the Education Department.
Photo

ArtPrize officials say the DeVos familys influence over the contest is minimal.
The DeVos Place Convention Center is a major ArtPrize venue, but its assistant general manager, Eddie Tadlock, said the familys input over what pieces he hosts is zero, zippo, nothing.
The DeVoses tour ArtPrize entries there every year, Mr. Tadlock said, and that has not prevented him from showing art with progressive political intentions.
Mr. Tadlock pointed to one piece, Troubled Waters by the Chicago artist Shawn Michael Warren, as kind of in-your-face to the DeVos family.
Mr. Warrens large-scale drawing focuses on the high cost of clean drinking water.
The DeVoses, Mr. Tadlock noted, have a bottled water company, and this is a commentary on how water is used as a resource, so this runs contrary to their interests.
That this years entries include so many more political statements than usual proves the DeVos family doesnt influence what competes, said Kevin Buist, the exhibitions director of the competition.
People try to pin ideologies onto ArtPrize but its really about open access to public space and free expression, said Mr. Buist, who helped Mr. DeVos start ArtPrize.
Theres this persistent myth that anyone involved is in ideological lock step with one another.
Thats completely untrue.
Photo

That ethos does seem to hold, with several entries inspired by Ms. DeVoss stewardship of the Education Department.
The St. Louis-based artist Ilene Berman, for instance, presented an installation in which school desks made of gray industrial wool lay collapsed on the floor in what she said is a form of memorial.
The tendency to blame teachers and things happening at home for problems with our schools is missing people like Betsy DeVoss role in whats happening, she said.
Nearby, For-profit Education, by a high school Spanish teacher, Sarah Ellis, takes a similar swipe.
The work features a vintage blackboard upon which she projects a video that first presents a Plato quote on the importance of education followed by Ms. Ellis smashing with a hammer four coin-filled busts of the philosopher.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It was her secretary of education nomination that got me thinking about making this piece, Ms. Ellis said.
Her familys done a lot for the community, but in terms of public education, shes done a lot more harm than good.
Many ArtPrize entries take aim at Mr. Trump.
In one, the performance artist E. J. Cobb sits at a desk taking a red pen to the texts of Trump speeches, then displays the marked-up pages in a work titled Fixed It for You.
Another work, by Esan Sommersell, titled Blackface Trump: Accountable?, reimagines Mr. Trump as a racial minority, setting his doctored profile against a red background adorned with a yellow Soviet hammer and sickle.
Photo

The environment also serves as inspiration.
Among the most noticeable is a 56-by-86-foot vinyl installation Oil + Water, in the Grand River, that depicts an image shot by the photographer Ryan Spencer Reed at a 2016 protest against the Dakota Access Pipeline.
Mr. Reed doctored the photo to make it appear as if it had been damaged by an oil spill.
I felt like Id never get that piece in the water, because wouldnt that make an awkward cabinet meeting between Betsy and Rex Tillerson?
Mr. Reed said, referring to the former Exxon Mobil chief executive turned secretary of state.
In fact, the ArtPrize staff helped the artist obtain the necessary permits.
The New Orleans-based artist Ti-Rock Moore was unaware of the DeVos-ArtPrize ties before she arrived with her entry, Flint.
The piece, a commentary on the lead-contamination crisis in that city, where a majority of residents are African-American, features a drinking fountain spewing brown water under the sign Colored.
Ms. Moore said that her work comments on the system that Ms. DeVos upholds, which also upholds white supremacy.
Whether the public  including many conservative Midwesterners who support Mr. Trump  will vote for progressive political art is unclear.
ArtPrize awards were originally all decided by public vote, but since 2013, half of the prize money is awarded by a panel of art experts to counter the publics preference for spectacles like one of this years most notorious entries, the worlds largest beanbag.
The two largest prizes are $200,000 each.
The perennial criticism ArtPrize weathers is about its unusual concept  that any business in downtown Grand Rapids can declare itself a venue and artists in any medium can pay $50 to show their work if a venue operator agrees to host it.
As a result, exhibition spaces this year include an auto body shop, a bridal store and the local Y.M.C.A.
Most artists who participate recognize that the event, which brought an estimated $28 million in business to Grand Rapids in 2016, is, as Mr. Reed put it, an economic development piece with an artsy facade.
Still, Mr. Reed and others say the kitschy entries and the American Idol-style voting process have their own value.
A city that gives itself over to art for three weeks is something to be celebrated, Ms. Berman, the St.-Louis-based artist, said.
People will find the pieces that speak to them.
Thats pretty powerful.
However, we should be careful not to think there are too many savings to be had by removing just any kind of administrative waste.
A number of advocates have argued that by removing medical underwriting and individual rating, insurers would be much more efficient and save money.
After the Affordable Care Act imposed guaranteed issue and community ratings, huge savings did not result.
Further, one persons waste is another persons job.
The trade-offs cant be ignored.
THE SWEET SPOT IS REGULATED NONPROFITS?
Based on personal experience with the German health care system and my sisters personal experience with the Swiss system: Both systems use competing nonprofit private companies (that is the key) that are heavily regulated.
A highly regulated nonprofit company is an efficient compromise construction between a government single-payer system (not exposed to competition) and between a free market of competing, unregulated, for-profit health insurance companies.
Gerhard, NY

Austin and Aaron respond:

This may be entirely correct.
Lets remember that Switzerland won the battle, and most people in that country do have insurance from a regulated market of guaranteed-issue, community-rated nonprofit private insurance companies.
Many components of the United States health care system are nonprofit, too, and theres a robust literature on how nonprofit and for-profit entities fare relative to each other.
For instance, there appears to be a relationship between the availability of nonprofit nursing homes in an area and levels of consumer welfare.
A review of systematic reviews of profit versus nonprofit hospitals found that for certain outcomes nonprofit hospitals performed better.
Overall quality and efficiency differences could not be determined, though.
In general, however, it appears that for-profit entities focus on cost (pushing it lower) while nonprofits focus on quality (pushing it higher).
There are always trade-offs, and we in the U.S. have generally favored the latter.
WHAT ABOUT THE DUTCH?
Weird how you picked the U.K. and Germany but not the Netherlands.
According to the annual Euro Health Consumer Index (E.H.C.I.
), the Netherlands systematically has the best health care in Europe  yes, better than Switzerland, year on year, and with the U.K. at 14th sandwiched between Portugal (13th) and the Czech Republic (15th).
Rdeman, London

Austin and Aaron respond: There are, of course, more countries than we had space to discuss.
We tried to pick countries that varied across the spectrum from socialized to privatized.
Though we welcome delving more deeply into some of these other countries, aspects of them are close to those of the ones weve already discussed.
The Netherlands, like many other countries, has a health care system along what the Princeton professor Uwe Reinhardt calls the Bismarckian model, in which health insurance is mandated from one of a small number of tightly regulated nonprofits.
People also can buy voluntary insurance above that, which covers things not covered by statutory insurance.
The country spends about 12 percent of gross domestic product on health care, and out-of-pocket payments are quite low.
How it would have compared in this battle isnt clear, but we think it would have done pretty well.
BEING INJURED ABROAD

We received many, many testimonials from American readers who received good treatment at reasonable prices (and no payment troubles) while living abroad or traveling.
By contrast, one reader from Australia advised that all visitors to the United States carry travel insurance, and a Canadian expressed surprise (below) at what awaited him after he broke his neck on a visit to the U.S.

Five years ago I fell off a rock and broke my hip while vacationing in Ireland.
An ambulance took me to the hospital.
Needless to say, my biggest worry was how am I going to pay for this.
I was distraught.
I had no coverage in the USA.
The staff at the hospital were very kind and assured me I would be O.K.
They replaced my hip, and when it was time to leave, they asked if I could pay $600.
No other bills arriving four months later, like in the USA.
$600, one bill, Done!
Jaw-dropping amazing.
I am grateful to Ireland, thank you!
Golf Pork, Seattle I live in British Columbia.
Some years ago I broke my neck in a motor vehicle accident in Washington State.
I received excellent treatment and had the comfort of knowing that my British Columbia government health insurance would cover all expenses, even out of country.
I was, however, taken aback when the first person I met in the emergency ward had a clipboard and was asking me how I would pay for all this.
I had never before faced this question.
David Paterson, Vancouver

Austin and Aaron respond: We hesitate to allow anecdotes to define a health care system.
What matters is the overall experience.
Reid wrote an amazing book on this subject in 2009, though, which was reviewed in The New York Times.
Another problem with anecdotes about overseas health care excellence is that they can always be countered by people who came to the United States because they couldnt get good care in their country.
We hear all the time about how people from Canada flock to the United States when wait times are too long.
Those stories are almost always exceptions, not the rule, as a great paper in Health Affairs showed.
Its interesting to note, though, that most of the stories in the comments are driven by the shock of Americans when they can receive high-quality, reasonably priced health care in other countries.
Weve been conditioned to believe that the only choices available are our system or utter chaos.
This exercise was designed to show otherwise.
There are lots of other choices available, many of them are good, and some that are probably better.
Around the same time the president was deleting tweets about Mr.
Strange, he also deleted a tweet congratulating Mr. Moore on his victory.
He later reposted that message, and early Wednesday he tweeted about speaking with Mr. Moore by telephone.
It is unclear why the president chose to delete the tweets he did.
Several tweets endorsing Mr.
Strange, whom the president often called Big Luther, but which were sent in the weeks before Mr. Trumps visit to Alabama, remain public.
At a rally for Mr.
Strange in Alabama on Friday, Mr. Trump openly wondered whether it was a mistake to campaign for the senator, given his flagging poll numbers.
Even after getting elected president, Mr. Trump has maintained personal control of his Twitter account.
He has used his posts to skewer opponents, respond to critics and, he says, to communicate directly to voters without the filter of the news media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Twitter is a wonderful thing for me, because I get the word out, he said in a March interview with Fox News.
I might not be here talking to you right now as president if I didnt have an honest way of getting the word out.
But if the presidents tweets are the Digital Age version of quips at the Rose Garden podium, what then are we to make of the deletions?
The president regularly deletes tweets with typos and misspellings.
Less frequently, but not unheard-of, are erasures that pertain to more significant topics.
In March, he posted and deleted a tweet that read: Meeting with Generals at Mar-a-Lago in Florida.
Very interesting!
At least two government watchdog groups, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington and the National Security Archive, believe that when Mr. Trump deletes a tweet he may be breaking the law.
The groups filed a lawsuit in June against Mr. Trump and the Executive Office of the President, claiming that deleting social media posts violates the Presidential Records Act, a law that requires presidential communications to be archived.
The groups are also suing to require White House staff members to archive material sent through encrypted messaging apps, such as WhatsApp and Signal.
He walks the walk, O.K.?
said David Mowery, a consultant in Montgomery, the state capital, who helped run a Democratic campaign against Mr. Moore in 2012, less than a decade after Mr. Moore defied a federal judges order to remove a 2.6-ton Ten Commandments monument from the Supreme Court building.
He doesnt just say hes going to do this, Mr. Mowery said.
He gets thrown out of office over it.
And then he gets re-elected.
In order to fill the Senate seat that Attorney General Jeff Sessions held for 20 years, Mr. Moore must pass one more test: a special election in December against the Democratic candidate, Doug Jones, a former federal prosecutor who is a formidable rival, especially by the diminished standards of Alabama Democrats.
Although Mr. Trump said on Friday that Mr. Moore has a very good chance of not winning in December, strategists in both parties expect the states voters to choose Mr. Moore, who was one of the public figures who stirred doubts about the birthplace of Barack Obama.
Photo

If he is elected to the Senate, Mr. Moore will have gotten there as a rare retail politician with a penchant for reciting Blackstones Commentaries on common law.
At the same time, and to greater political benefit, the former professional kickboxer exhibits traits that many Alabamians see in themselves and seek in their elected officials: He is outwardly pious and prone to political pugilism, self-assured and satisfied with standing alone.
Roy Moore is Huey Long with religion, said Jim Zeigler, a Republican who is the state auditor.
Huey Long would tell it like it is.
He ran against the establishment, he defeated the establishment, he would not compromise with the establishment.
Roy Moore does all those things, but he has a biblical worldview.
Yet Mr. Moore, who twice ran unsuccessfully for governor, is far from universally beloved in this state.
For many people in Alabama, he remains part novelty, part demagogue and part embarrassment, his reputation marred not by bribes or sex scandals but by his brand of stubborn populism.
More than once, Mr. Moore has found himself rebuffing comparisons to George C. Wallace, the governor who said in 1963 that he wanted segregation now, segregation tomorrow and segregation forever.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Moore is a one-issue man, and all of the other things fall to the side, said Joel Sogol, a lawyer from Tuscaloosa who has tangled with Mr. Moore.
Either you accept those issues from his position or you dont, and theres a lot folks here who accept them.
Mr. Moores notoriety stems almost entirely from years of pitched legal battles over Ten Commandments displays on public property and over the authority of the federal courts to recognize same-sex marriages.
Cast aside, even by some in his own party, as a bigot and a hatemonger, Mr. Moore has turned high-decibel clashes with his critics  he blamed atheists, homosexuals and transgender individuals for one conflagration  into opportunities.
In Alabama politics, Mr. Sogol said: Hes an outsider who has a flag to hold on to.
His flag is Christianity, the Bible.
There are a lot of people in this area who think that is the No.
1 thing in the world.
During his periodic exiles from public office, Mr. Moore helped to steer public debate using a nonprofit organization called the Foundation for Moral Law, which says it exists to restore the knowledge of God in law and government and to acknowledge and defend the truth that man is endowed with rights, not by our fellow man, but by God!
The organization, which Mr. Moores wife now leads, was the subject of a complaint filed to the Internal Revenue Service last week, accusing the group of repeatedly and expressly advocating for Mr. Moores election to the Senate, in conflict with its tax-exempt status.
Mr. Moore says the criticism of the organization is politically motivated.
Though he has done little to excise himself from the clamor of evangelical politics, Mr. Moore sometimes complains about being regarded solely as a culture warrior.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
They put me in a religious thing because I acknowledge God, he said in an interview.
I regret voters dont hear me talk about laws and all the things I do otherwise in government.
When I was on the court, I dealt with everything.
Service in the Senate presents similarly sweeping challenges, and the Capitol Hill establishment is not likely to roll out a welcome mat for Mr. Moore.
He said throughout the campaign that he would be a gadfly, not an obedient follower of the party line laid down by Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, whose allies spent heavily in Alabama trying to help Mr.
Strange keep his seat.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

McConnell and all of those people in Washington know Im not to be controlled, said Mr. Moore, whose campaign won the support of Stephen K. Bannon, the executive chairman of Breitbart News and Mr. Trumps onetime chief strategist.
Im not going to be managed, Ive never been, Mr. Moore said.
Though he is dismissive of his partys leadership, he is no ones idea of a centrist, and would probably vote the same way as Mr. McConnell on most issues.
Like nearly every Southern Republican running for a statewide office this year, he has campaigned on repealing the Affordable Care Act, protecting gun rights, increasing military spending and toughening immigration enforcement.
Yet longtime observers of the man whom many know simply as Judge Moore sometimes struggle for a neat, overarching description of his approach to public policy, beyond simple populism.
In his years on the bench, he stayed at something of a remove from the pro-business orthodoxy of the Republicans who have won near-absolute power in Alabama in recent years, and for an array of reasons, business leaders have chronically kept their distance from him.
Hed probably be considered conservative by some standards, less so by others, said Jere Beasley, a trial lawyer who once served as a Democratic lieutenant governor and who donated to Mr. Moores campaign.
Mr. Beasley praised Mr. Moore for a ruling he handed down on arbitration, but other decisions give his judicial record a texture that surprises both supporters and critics.
In occasional dissents, for instance, Mr. Moore voiced support for overhauling sentencing laws that some say are too harsh and too rigid.
Writing in a robbery case last year, Mr. Moore said, There is a difference between justice and overkill.
In another case, he argued that a life sentence for a nonviolent drug crime had shown grave flaws in our statutory sentencing scheme.
He is a populist, Mr. Zeigler said of Mr. Moore, whose campaign had a fraction of the financial support that Mr.
Strange attracted.
I dont think he intends to be.
He just is.
It is a model that has long proven politically effective.
And on Tuesday, at least, it overcame more than $10 million in advertising spending by Mr. Stranges allies.
Its almost the same appeal that Trump has, but it comes from a totally different place, Mr. Mowery said.
The states motto is, We dare defend our rights.
It kind of starts right there: A lot of people feel Roy Moore is the guy whos done that.
The most important thing is better market access both for companies operating there physically and for companies exporting there, Mr. Ross said on Wednesday.
He added that the Trump administration wanted to see less protectionist behavior, calling China one of the most protectionist countries in the world.
Western businesses have raised concerns about a $300 billion plan by China to become self-sufficient by 2025 in high-tech industries, including computer chips and electric cars, that they argue may hurt foreign companies.
The policy, known as Made in China 2025, is part of Chinas ambition for certain industries to be global leaders with the help of state money.
We can understand that they would desire self-sufficiency and if the way they get there is through a free and open level playing field, and its a fair match, were fine with that, Mr. Ross said on Wednesday.
But, he added, the Trump administration would object to American companies being forced to transfer technological know-how in exchange for market access.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In closed-door conversations with United States officials, the Chinese have expressed concerns over a broad inquiry by the Trump administration into China trade practices that has focused on potential violations of intellectual policy.
Officials have also complained about the United States export controls.
On Wednesday, Mr. Ross blamed China for contributing to the United States trade deficit, saying it was by far our largest single deficit.
He said he planned to help narrow the gap between the two countries by increasing exports of American goods and services to China.
The Commerce Department is leading a trade mission to China in November as part of that initiative.
This year, the United States signed a deal with China to give American companies greater access to the Chinese market in several areas, including agriculture, banking and finance.
Mr. Ross referred to the deal as relatively low-hanging fruit.
Now were moving into harder things, bigger things, more serious things, and hopefully the good will thats been built up between President Xi and President Trump will help to change the atmosphere, Mr. Ross, referring to Xi Jinping, told an audience at a Forbes conference in Hong Kong on Tuesday evening.
But tensions remain between the two leaders.
Last week, Mr. Trump signed an executive order to strengthen sanctions against North Korea; the new measures named Chinese entities.
On Wednesday, Mr. Ross said that although the executive order did name some Chinese individuals, it was not particularly aimed at China, adding that other nations have also done business with North Korea.
He also praised Chinas central bank for directing its banking institutions not to facilitate trade with North Korea, saying it was an important step.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He also struck a cautious note in ending his meeting with reporters on Wednesday.
I dont want to give the impression that we made any concessions on the trip, he said.
We did not, nor did the Chinese side.
She initially lauded automakers for supporting an effort, started by President Obama in 2009, to harmonize a mishmash of greenhouse gas emissions and fuel economy standards set by the E.P.A., the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and CARB.
Having taken almost $80 billion in bailout money, General Motors and Chrysler, especially, were in no position to resist.
Still, the automakers soon balked at the ambitious pace of fuel efficiency improvements under the program, which requires automakers to progressively raise the fuel economy of their cars to an average of 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025, nearly double the average in 2012.
That comes to about 36 miles per gallon in real-world driving.
That aggressive target would compel automakers to speed the development of hybrid and electric cars, and to improve the fuel efficiency of their conventional fleets.
Automakers also argued that meeting that target would be prohibitively costly, forcing them to raise car prices or to make more battery-powered vehicles than Americans want to buy.
In a compromise, the automakers agreed to the program, provided that the standards for the later years  2022-25  would be subject to a midterm review.
That review was in full swing when Mr. Trump won the presidency in late 2016.
Just a day after his electoral victory, the Auto Alliance reached out to the president-elect, urging him to rework the standards, calling them a substantial challenge for the auto industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a similarly swift maneuver, the Obama administration cut short the review and finalized the rules, calling them feasible, practical and appropriate, just before leaving office.
The automakers doubled down.
In a Feb. 21 letter, the auto industry alliance implored Mr. Pruitt, the E.P.A.
head, to overturn President Obamas 11th-hour decision.
The standards, the alliance argued, threaten to depress an industry that can ill afford spiraling regulatory costs.
The E.P.A.
has reversed President Obamas decision.
Last month, the agency officially called for comments on standards for model years 2021-25, widening the reviews scope.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which focuses mostly on auto safety, not emissions, is expected to lead the review.
Photo

Were going to work on the CAFE standards so you can make cars in America again, Mr. Trump said in a speech in Detroit this year, referring to the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards, which were first put in place in 1975.
For a meaningful reprieve, however, automakers need Ms. Nichols on board.
If CARB does not sign onto the reopened review, the automakers face the prospect of separate rules for California and its follower states  a coalition that covers more than 130 million residents and more than a third of the vehicle market in the United States.
Ms. Nichols is not budging.
At the first public hearing on the reopened midterm review last week, CARBs emissions compliance chief, Annette Hebert, threatened to abandon the review if the E.P.A.
took steps to weaken the emissions standards.
Should the agency try to curtail Californias ability to set its own rules  by challenging its Clean Air Act waiver, for example  the fight will more than likely end in court, said Kevin Poloncarz, a San Francisco lawyer focusing on air and climate change law.
Pulling that waiver would be like declaring an all-out war on California, he said.
Accusations of Overreach

Even in California, some critics challenge the expansive powers of a board of unelected officials with the authority to set environmental policy.
All but two of the boards 14 voting members are appointed by the governor, and today include a doctor, an almond farmer and a paint company executive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the years, CARB has expanded its reach, regulating products as diverse as lawn mowers and bulldozers, air fresheners, paint thinners and even hair and bug spray.
It has sent inspectors to Tokyo and Stuttgart, Germany, to monitor the testing of cars manufactured overseas.
And it oversees a system of air-quality management districts across California that issue and enforce their own local regulations.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Monday that the White House intends to release a broad set of immigration proposals soon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We will be putting out specific principles that the White House supports and would like to see done legislatively, Ms. Sanders said.
Two White House officials later said that the blueprint, first reported by McClatchy, represented a menu of options being considered.
But it did not signal Mr. Trumps timetable for moving on the proposal, or what he might ultimately decide.
Congressional Democratic leaders declined on Tuesday to comment on the document.
They said they would wait for Mr. Trump to issue a formal request as he pieces together a legislative package to preserve the status of the Dreamers and still honor his get-tough campaign pledge to crack down on illegal immigration and build a border wall with Mexico.
A House Democratic leadership aide called the proposal a complete nonstarter and not a serious document.
The aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it does not reflect the agreement the president made with Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi.
The blueprint also includes a handful of proposals that have already been mentioned by the Trump administration or that have been included in Republican legislative proposals.
They fall into three broad categories: securing the border; placing new restrictions on legal immigration to protect American workers, a focus for Mr. Miller; and increased enforcement of immigration laws within United States borders, as made possible by a major expansion of the agent force for the Department of Homeland Security.
Other proposals include eliminating protections for unaccompanied, undocumented minors; restricting asylum for adults and children; implementing an online system that allows businesses to quickly check the immigration status of an applicant; and increasing fees for visa applications.
But in weighing in on the Georgia lawsuit and in vowing to voice support in similar cases in coming weeks, Mr.
Sessions drew on so-called statements of interest, a technique used aggressively by the Obama administration to push the boundaries of civil rights laws.
They are a legal tool, historically reserved for matters of national security and diplomacy, used to interject the federal government in private disputes.
In the Georgia case, an evangelical Christian student sued administrators last year at Georgia Gwinnett College, a public institution, saying they had limited his ability to proselytize.
According to the lawsuit, the student, Chike Uzuegbunam, an undergraduate at the time, had distributed evangelical Christian materials outside the school library.
The colleges administration stopped him because he was not within designated free-speech zones and had not obtained a permit.
Mr. Uzuegbunam later reserved a place outside the schools food court, within a free-speech zone, and began discussing the brevity of life and how all men and women have fallen short of Gods commands, according to the lawsuit.
After students complained, administrators said Mr. Uzuegbunams open-air speaking had disturbed the peace, and they restricted it.
Justice Department lawyers argued in the statement of interest that school administrators were unjustified in silencing Mr. Uzuegbunam simply because other students had been uncomfortable.
Casey Mattox, a senior lawyer at the Alliance Defending Freedom, which is representing Mr. Uzuegbunam, said the Justice Departments support was heartening.
Its a boost for the broader free speech movement that the federal government is taking First Amendment rights very seriously, said Mr. Mattox, whose organization is also representing a student arrested last year for distributing copies of the Constitution on the campus of Kellogg Community College in Battle Creek, Mich.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr.
Sessions also mentioned that case in his remarks on Tuesday.
The American university was once the center of academic freedom  a place of robust debate, a forum for the competition of ideas, Mr.
Sessions said.
But it is transforming into an echo chamber of political correctness and homogeneous thought, a shelter for fragile egos.
Photo

Condemning a violent protest at Middlebury College, in Middlebury, Vt., that this year shut down a speech by the author Charles Murray, Mr.
Sessions noted that some of the dissenters had worn masks, a common tactic also used by the detestable Ku Klux Klan.
The debate about how to interpret the First Amendment on college campuses has divided university faculties, with some arguing for unrestricted speech, no matter how inflammatory, and others advocating boundaries be established in an age of internet trolling and cyberbullying.
At the University of California, Berkeley, the faculty is divided on the issue.
Last week, a Free Speech Week event featuring the conservative provocateur Milo Yiannopoulos was canceled.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sessions invoked a recent appearance at Berkeley by the conservative writer Ben Shapiro, the former editor at large of Breitbart News, whom he described as a Harvard trained lawyer who has been frequently targeted by anti-Semites for his Jewish faith, and who vigorously condemns hate speech on both the left and right.
To my knowledge, Mr.
Sessions said, no one fainted, no one was unsafe.
Erwin Chemerinsky, dean of the law school at Berkeley and a First Amendment scholar, said he was pleased about Mr. Sessionss advocacy for free speech.
I think its great that the attorney general of the United States is coming down on the side of free speech  I would hope liberals and conservatives can agree, he said.
But Mr. Chemerinsky, who has co-written a new book, Free Speech on Campus, said he thought Mr.
Sessions failed to fully consider the balance of freedom of expression with public safety.
This university spent $600,000 to facilitate Ben Shapiro coming, and it was estimated if Milo Yiannopoulos came, it would cost $1 million, he said.
Its not sustainable for this campus on a weekly basis to facilitate free speech while protecting public safety.
Where is that line to be drawn?
Its a really hard question.
Further stoking the debate about First Amendment rights, Mr.
Sessions joined Mr. Trump in criticizing professional athletes who have declined to stand for the national anthem to raise awareness of police brutality and racial injustice.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The president has free speech rights, too, Mr.
Sessions said in response to a question from the audience.
If they take a provocative act, they have a right to be condemned, and the president has a right to condemn them, and I would condemn their actions.
Some dissenting students and faculty at Georgetown  where Tiffany Trump, the presidents youngest daughter, is newly enrolled in the law school  called the administrations message inconsistent.
Theres hypocrisy here, said Peter B. Edelman, who teaches constitutional law at Georgetown.
Just as the president has shown a lack of respect for freedom of speech, the attorney general comes to make use of his freedom of speech at our law school.
Sessions requested Tuesdays appearance  the subject and time of which was chosen before Mr. Trumps remarks about the N.F.L.
according to Randy Barnett, a professor of constitutional law who helped organize the event.
Attendance was invitation-only, he said, in order to promote a civil tone.
Sessions urged the students to appreciate their ability to speak out.
As you exercise these rights, realize how precious, how rare and how fragile they are, he said.
In most societies throughout history, he added, openly criticizing the government or expressing unorthodox opinions could land you in jail, or worse.
The Commerce Department announcement, which centered on Boeings claim that the Canadian jet maker had received unfair government subsidies for its products, was the first in a series of rulings on the duties that are to be charged to Bombardiers products, rulings that could be reversed in months to come.
The next decision, on Oct. 5, will consider whether Bombardier sold its jets in the United States at an unfairly low price, a practice known as dumping.
That could add an additional duty to imports of the jet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The United States International Trade Commission, a federal agency that monitors trade, will make a final ruling on the case early next year that could uphold or eliminate the duties.
Yet federal customs officials are authorized to begin collecting the duties on Bombardier planes immediately.
While the new jet has not yet been imported into the United States, the measure could damp future sales.
Boeing greeted the news in a statement: This dispute has nothing to do with limiting innovation or competition, which we welcome.
Rather, it has everything to do with maintaining a level playing field.
The ruling was handed down as negotiators from Canada, the United States and Mexico met in Ottawa to negotiate reforms to Nafta, a sprawling trade pact that has guided the North American economy since 1994.
In Canada, where trade supports much of the economy, and news of Nafta is splashed across newspapers and television channels, the talks are being viewed as a test of whether the government will stand up to President Trumps aggressive stance on trade.
In response to duties on Bombardier, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has threatened to abandon a planned purchase by Canada of military aircraft from Boeing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We wont do business with a company thats busy trying to sue us and put our aerospace workers out of business, Mr. Trudeau said on Sept. 18 in a joint news conference with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain.
Ms. May also criticized the Boeing case, arguing that it would cost jobs in Northern Ireland, where the wings for Bombardiers CSeries jet are built.
Jerry Dias, president of the Canadian labor union Unifor, said Tuesday that there was no question that President Trumps election to office had ratcheted up trade tensions between the United States and Canada.
At some point or another, Canada is going to have to strike back in a very aggressive way.
Just continuing to take it on the chin doesnt make any sense, he told reporters on the sidelines of the Nafta negotiations.
At the Pentagon, several Defense officials expressed anger that years of close work could be jeopardized by what one characterized as a casual process that failed to take into account Americas long-term interests in the region.
Current and former officials at the United States Africa Command, which works closely with the Chadian military to fight Islamic extremists in north and central Africa, said they could not explain the inclusion and referred inquiries to the White House.
Carter Ham, a retired general who formerly headed the Africa Command, called the decision to put Chad on the list puzzling.
The presidents proclamation said Chad does not adequately share public safety and terrorism-related information and fails to satisfy at least one key risk criterion.
Administration officials declined to provide details, but the White House and the Homeland Security Department defended the move.
This was not a subjective exercise, said Dave Lapan, a Homeland Security spokesman.
We laid out a very clear baseline of the information we needed from all countries, and all countries were measured equally to determine whether they met that baseline.
The presidents national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H.R.
McMaster, acknowledged the disagreement within the administration over banning travel from Chad and raised the possibility that the decision could be reversed.
That list is not fixed, he told an audience at a Washington conference on Monday.
On Chad, there was a real debate.
He said that Chad was included because of concerns over sharing of data with American officials, but added that maybe in a couple of months they can get there on meeting American requirements.
The development of the travel ban was an intense process that included the departments of State and Homeland Security, the Pentagon, intelligence agencies and the White House, federal officials said.
After officials from across the government developed a baseline that established what each country must do to allow travel to the United States, American diplomats worked with other nations to meet the standards.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On a phone call set up by the White House to brief reporters about the ban, a State Department official asserted that the agency was fully engaged in the development of the list.
But other officials at both the State Department and the Pentagon disputed that characterization.
To me, what they did makes absolutely no sense whatsoever, none, zero, said John Campbell, former United States ambassador to Nigeria who is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
He called the White House assertion that Chad has not done enough on data sharing really, really weak.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if the restrictions on travel from Chad are eased, the ban will have a lasting effect, Africa experts predicted.
This confusion over the treatment of a key U.S. ally on combating terrorism sends the message that the United States cannot be trusted as a reliable partner, said Monde Muyangwa, director of the Africa program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Chads strongman leader, Idriss Dby, was surprised by the decision, officials there said, and the government in NDjamena issued a statement on Monday expressing astonishment and incomprehension in the face of the official reasons for this decision, which contrasts with Chads constant efforts and commitments in the fight against terrorism at regional and global levels.
Defense officials said the designation could prompt Chad to curb its cooperation on counterterrorism.
Chad, with a mixed population of Muslims and Christians, borders countries that have struggled to harness militant activity  Libya, Sudan, Nigeria, Niger and the Central African Republic.
It has battled Islamic terrorists in the region, including offshoots of Al Qaeda and Boko Haram.
Moussa Faki Mahamat, Chads foreign minister who worked to fight terrorism in central Africa, was named to head the African Union Commission this year.
Chads military has worked closely with Americans, playing host to exercises conducted by the United States.
It is a major partner in an effort involving several countries in the Lake Chad basin to fight Boko Haram and has deployed 700 troops along border areas to prevent infiltration by the Islamist group.
American officials have mostly ignored complaints that Mr. Dby has overseen an authoritarian regime, Africa experts said, in large part because of his staunch support for counterterrorism.
A State Department report from last year focused in large part on the countrys counterterrorism work, though it noted a financial crisis has kept the government from consistently paying the police and the military.
J. Peter Pham, an Atlantic Council Africa specialist who has been considered by the Trump administration for the job of assistant secretary of state for African affairs, suggested in a telephone interview on Tuesday that one reason for Chads inclusion on the list was that the country has played a somewhat duplicitous role against Boko Haram, and only cracked down on the group after its trade routes became endangered.
Mr. Pham acknowledged that Chad is geographically, a country one doesnt want to alienate.
But, he said, that on some issues, theyve been a necessary partner but not a wholehearted one.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Chads military has crossed the border to help its neighbor, Nigeria, retake territory from Boko Haram.
Insurers say at least some of those increases were to account for the policy uncertainty brought by the Trump administration, which has indicated that it may hold back some routine payments to insurers and that it will reduce outreach to possible customers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Complete market failure seems to have been averted: At least one insurer has agreed to sell health plans in every county of the country.
But Republican critics of the law are right that many parts of the country will have just one insurer offering plans, and that single insurer may be charging very high prices for its products.
Most Obamacare customers wont feel the sting of higher premiums, because government subsidies limit their exposure to a percentage of their income.
But there are still millions of people who buy their own insurance and earn too much to qualify for subsidies.
The rocky market will be worse for them, and possibly unaffordable.
Senators in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee had been negotiating over a possible bipartisan deal to help stabilize the markets.
The expected package would have guaranteed the disputed payments to insurers and provided states with some policy flexibility in future years.
But that effort was shelved by congressional leadership as part of the failed push to pass the Graham-Cassidy health care overhaul.
Now, with contract signings imminent, it is probably too late for lawmakers to improve conditions much for next year.
(On the flip side, its also probably too late for President Trump to create substantially more havoc for markets by declining to pay the insurance subsidies, as he has periodically threatened to do.)
The Trump administration has, so far, been a reluctant overseer of the Obamacare markets.
It has slashed its budget for outreach and enrollment assistance for possible customers, meaning that consumers may have more trouble finding out when and how to sign up for health insurance.
Its department of health and human services keeps sending news releases cheerfully noting the laws shortcomings.
(A recent one had the subject line Its not working...)

Officials also recently announced that they expect to take the HealthCare.gov enrollment website offline for maintenance for up to 12 hours on five of the six Sundays during the enrollment period, substantially longer than was needed last year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The administration argues that people eligible for Obamacare programs are already well-informed about their options, but there is substantial survey research suggesting that many may be confused or simply unaware of how the program works.
That may be especially true now, given the months of news about efforts to repeal the law.
Taken together, higher prices and less outreach are likely to mean fewer people buying coverage on the individual insurance market.
Insurers views on whether to participate in 2019 are likely to be shaped by their experience next year.
The Trump administration has tended to use the poor performance of the health care markets as a prod to legislators to move forward on repeal.
But the timing of repeals collapse means that, even absent a legislative overhaul, the markets will suffer.
Over a meal that ended with apple pie, Mr. Trump also said that repatriation of taxes on corporate profits kept offshore would be part of the plan.
He did not describe changes to carve-outs or deductions, according to a person in the room.
At one point, Mr. Trump said that getting the corporate rate down was the key to getting the economy to grow.
The president said that he had grown tired of listening to foreign leaders, like Indias Narendra Modi, describe a gross domestic product growth rate close to 10 percent, while Mr. Trump had nothing comparable to show, according to the person, who asked for anonymity because it was a private dinner.
The White House is trying to navigate a narrow path on an issue that administration officials believe can reboot Mr. Trumps presidency.
It is an attempt to assuage the demand for lower taxes among wealthy party donors without being perceived by Mr. Trumps working-class base as giving a windfall to the rich.
Mr. Trump promised after meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday that we will cut taxes tremendously for the middle class.
He will make his pivot to overhauling the tax code official on Wednesday during a speech in Indiana where he will unveil details of a plan that he has promised will be the biggest tax cut in history.
After the failure of Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act, passing tax legislation has become all the more crucial, and it is no accident that the Trump administration has chosen the Hoosier State, a reliably Republican part of the country.
It is also the home to Vice President Mike Pence, its former governor, and it has a Democratic senator, Joe Donnelly, whose support Mr. Trump may need.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
For Republicans who have been scarred by the experience of seeing tax cuts lead to fiscal shortfalls in states such as Kansas, South Carolina and Tennessee, Indiana represents a case study of where tax cuts worked.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Our history of being a state that has reduced the size of government, specifically through Pence tax cuts in 2013, makes us an example of heres these tax cuts, and then seeing economic growth, said Justin Stevens, the Indiana head of the conservative group Americans for Prosperity.
As governor, Mr. Pence signed legislation modestly reducing personal income taxes and taxes on companies.
Coinciding with that, the states economy grew and unemployment declined.
As of last year, Indianas gross domestic product ranked 16th in the United States and its unemployment rate last month was 3.5 percent, below the national level of 4.4 percent.
Mr. Trump on Wednesday will make the case that this is the recipe for economic success nationally, but some economists in the state are not certain that the local strategy can be replicated on a national scale.
Michael J. Hicks, an economics professor at Ball State University, said it was too soon to say if the Pence tax cuts actually stimulated the state economy.
On the right, youre going to hear that by cutting taxes youre going to have huge new tax revenues, Mr. Hicks said.
But theres no analysis that finds that.
Indiana has also had to find new revenue to fund infrastructure projects and rebuild crumbling roads.
This year, the state approved a 10-cents-per-gallon gas tax.
Finding money to pay for the Trump administrations ambitious tax plan will be one of the bigger puzzles.
Republicans say they are counting on a surge in economic growth and on the elimination of deductions to make up a fiscal shortfall that tax experts have suggested could amount to trillions of dollars.
Last week, members of the Senate Budget Committee agreed on a framework that would add to the federal deficit in order to pave the way for a $1.5 trillion tax cut over the next 10 years.
The budget resolution still must pass both houses of Congress before work can begin in earnest on tax legislation, and some Republicans have already expressed reluctance.
Assessing the cost of the Republican tax framework will be difficult until more details are made available.
Analyses of Mr. Trumps previous plans and the House Republican blueprint from 2016 were estimated to reduce government revenues by between $3 trillion and $7 trillion over a decade.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trump is expected to intensify his pitch to get Democrats on board with his tax plan.
Mr. Donnelly, who is seen as vulnerable in a state that voted heavily for Mr. Trump, is one of three senators who did not sign a letter from Democrats making demands that the tax plan not benefit the rich or add to the deficit.
Mr. Trump will probably call him out directly on Wednesday.
During his meeting on Tuesday with Republicans and Democrats from the House Ways and Means Committee, Mr. Trump also made a pitch for bipartisanship.
It is time for both parties to come together and do what is right for the American people, he said.
But garnering support from Democrats will not be easy.
Trump asked for Democrats to jump on the caboose after the tax train has already left the station, said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who complained that lowering top tax rates and repealing the estate tax would be a boon for the wealthy.
I saw no Democrat ready to jump on board.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The Environmental Protection Agency has signed a contract for nearly $25,000 to build a soundproof communications booth for the office of the administrator, Scott Pruitt.
The contract, with Acoustical Solutions in Richmond, Va., was first reported by The Washington Post.
It calls for the construction of a $24,570 privacy booth for Mr. Pruitts office.
Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., did not return requests for comment on the contract.
In a statement to The Post, she said agencies needed to have such booths to guard against hacking and eavesdropping.
This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and E.P.A.
needs to have updated, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Critics say Mr. Pruitt has gone to unusual lengths to operate in secrecy at the E.P.A., where employees report he is often accompanied by armed guards even inside the agency, and avoids making important calls in his office.
He is the first E.P.A.
administrator to have round-the-clock security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steve Snider, a salesman at Acoustical Solutions who handled the E.P.A.
contract, said privacy booths are typically used to conduct hearing tests and cost $5,000 to $6,000.
He said the E.P.A.
had requested significant modifications that ultimately required a custom order for the booth with the manufacturer.
Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, who introduced the other measure, said his concern was more about checks and balances than any particular action by Mr. Trump.
Legislation, he said, would lower the temperature around the investigation and buy Mr. Mueller time and space to finish his work.
We are not here to clip any one presidents wings, but to create a check on any future presidents, Mr. Tillis said.
The two bills share much in common, and both try to build on the existing Justice Department statute governing special counsels to ensure that any firing is for good cause.
Mr. Grahams bill, introduced with Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, would require the attorney general  or a deputy  to petition a panel of federal judges for permission to remove a special counsel.
Mr. Tilliss bill, in contrast, would allow for a judicial review process after a special counsel is fired.
The attorney general would have to prove good cause for removal, and a panel of three federal judges would have 14 days to reach a decision.
The bill was introduced with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, and a bipartisan pair of representatives have introduced parallel legislation in the House.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, after the firing of the F.B.I.
director, James B. Comey, and was given broad latitude to investigate Mr. Trump and his associates.
But the statute under which he was appointed affords Mr. Mueller, or other future special counsels, few formal job protections.
If he wished, Mr. Trump could order top Justice Department officials to fire Mr. Mueller.
Supporters of the Judiciary Committee measures repeatedly alluded on Tuesday to comments and actions made by Mr. Trump about the investigation that they said made their work necessary.
Most saliently, in a late-July interview, Mr. Trump told The New York Times that Mr. Muellers team was rife with conflicts of interest and warned that investigators would be crossing a red line if they began to look at Trump family finances beyond any relationship to Russia.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Separating themselves from the Republicans, committee Democrats said those comments, and Mr. Trumps repeated hostility toward investigators, made the need for action urgent.
Simply put, I have strenuous concern about President Trumps respect for the rule of law, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committees ranking Democrat, said in an opening statement.
The president must know that Congress will not stand idly by if he attempts to undermine independent criminal investigations.
The committees chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, did not make his leanings toward the bills known, but he made clear in his opening statement that he saw an important role for Congress to oversee special counsel investigations.
The Judiciary Committee is one of several congressional committees investigating Mr. Trumps links to Russia.
The committees particular interest stems from Mr. Comeys firing, but it has outlined a broad investigation into several other matters, from the Obama Justice Departments handling of the Hillary Clinton email case to Mr. Trumps presidential campaign.
Tuesdays discussion frequently returned to a 1988 Supreme Court case that weighed the constitutionality of the now-expired independent counsel statute, put in place after the Watergate scandal.
In the ruling, the court voted 7 to 1 that the counsel statute did not violate the separation of powers doctrine and was therefore lawful.
But the decision came with a powerful dissent from Justice Antonin Scalia, which in the years since has gained a widespread following.
Independent counsels, such as Kenneth W. Starr, had considerably broader powers and more latitude than todays special counsels, but the constitutional scholars and members of the committee repeatedly used the decision and the dissent to make arguments for and against the constitutionality of the proposed protection bills.
Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, both Republicans, appeared most skeptical that the bills were constitutionally supportable.
The overriding concern I have whenever we are talking about this area is that bad things happen when we depart from the three-branch structure of the federal government, Mr. Lee said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Akhil Reed Amar, a law professor at Yale, told the panel that he expected either measure could be vetoed by the president or invalidated by the courts.
Other legal scholars disagreed.
The exclusive conversation took place at Le Cirque restaurant in New York, which lists escargot vol-au-vent, octopus salvatore and paupiette of black cod on its dinner menu and served as the evenings venue for Mr. Trump to raise money for the Republican National Committee.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Couples who paid $250,000 got private face time with the president, while donors who contributed $100,000 each enjoyed V.I.P.
access to Mr. Trump, Republican officials said.
The minimum contribution for the event was set at $35,000.
The president is helping the Republican Party raise money ahead of the 2018 congressional midterm elections, even as he has already set up the apparatus to mount his own re-election campaign in 2020.
Since taking office, Mr. Trump has held fund-raisers and rallies in several states around the country.
The fund-raiser is expected to draw some of Mr. Trumps most wealthy supporters from New Yorks finance and real estate worlds.
As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump turned to many of the same people to finance his campaign.
Attending the fund-raiser were Mr. Trumps two grown sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, as well as Steve Wynn, the casino executive.
Also there, according to participants, were John Catsimatidis, a wealthy New York businessman; Marc Kasowitz, a lawyer for Mr. Trump; and Howard M. Lorber, the chief executive of Vector Group.
The restaurant appears to be a favorite of Mr. Trumps, though it has fallen on hard times in recent years  its owner filed for bankruptcy protection in March.
He held a similar fund-raiser at its 58th Street location during the presidential campaign, and it has also played host to other candidates and celebrities throughout the years.
But despite the presidential endorsement on Tuesday night, Le Cirque has struggled to impress food critics.
In that 2012 review, The Times wrote that the restaurants most famous dishes, including its chocolate souffl and its steak au poivre, lacked conviction.
It went on to add: New dishes lacked rationale.
Nearly everything lacked seasoning.
The kitchen gave the impression that it had stopped reaching for excellence and possibly no longer remembered what that might mean.
Defense and State Department officials, as well as the Joint Chiefs of Staff and members of the United States mission to the United Nations, had recommended that Mr. Trump admit at least 50,000 refugees during the next fiscal year, according to several people briefed on the debate.
A Historically Low Cap on Refugees President Trump will lower the cap on refugees admitted to the United States to 45,000 for the 2018 fiscal year, down from the 110,000 cap set by President Barack Obama before he left office.
Mr. Trump had previously ordered that the country admit no more than 50,000 refugees in 2017.
200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 45,000 cap for 2018 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 90 00 10 18

That was the number that Mr. Trump had laid out in his original travel ban executive order issued during his first week in office in January, while the Department of Homeland Security had suggested 40,000.
Both numbers were far lower than the 110,000 limit President Barack Obama had placed on refugees last year, and the 75,000 limit resettlement agencies said was necessary to begin to meet humanitarian needs around the world.
But Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, ultimately lowered his recommended limit to 45,000, the people said, and that was the number presented to Mr. Trump.
The White House declined to comment on the decision or on the deliberations surrounding it.
Refugee assistance groups reacted with outrage to the anticipated cap, calling it a departure from the American tradition of welcoming immigrants in times of need.
Today a dark shadow has passed across the great American legacy and promise of protecting refugees, said Linda Hartke, the president of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, one of nine agencies  most of them faith-based  that partner with the United States government to resettle refugees.
The threat of a drastically low ceiling on refugee arrivals in the U.S. is contrary to American values and the spirit of generosity in American churches and communities.
The decision on refugees was the second time this month that Mr. Miller, a champion of the hard-line immigration policies that Mr. Trump made a centerpiece of his campaign, did not succeed in his effort to impose the strictest of policies.
He also failed to persuade the president to immediately end the Obama-era program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, shielding them from deportation and allowing them to work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But in both cases, Mr. Millers efforts made a difference.
Mr. Trump did announce early this month that he would end the so-called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program within six months, although he said he would work with Democrats on a compromise measure to codify the protections.
And while the president did not set the refugee cap as low as Mr. Miller had advised  at one point, he argued no more than 15,000 should be admitted  holding the refugee limit below 50,000 was a statement in and of itself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Miller and other advocates of reducing refugee admissions had worked for months to justify doing so, even rejecting internal government research that found that refugees have a positive impact on the nations fiscal condition.
Instead, they argued that vetting refugees to insure they do not pose a terrorism threat and adjudicating their resettlement applications are too costly and burdensome, and that once in the United States, they become a drain on American resources that could be better spent assisting persecuted people closer to their home countries.
Refugee resettlement groups say there is no evidence to support such concerns.
Setting a record-low cap on refugee resettlement, the White House is showing a stunning cruelty toward those fleeing our common enemies  enemies who intend to paint the U.S. as indifferent to refugees suffering, said Hans Van de Weerd, vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee, another of the nine resettlement agencies.
He called on Congress to oppose what would amount to an abandonment of U.S. global and strategic leadership, and decency.
On Monday, 34 senators  all Democrats except for John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  wrote to Mr. Trump pleading for a cap higher than 50,000, calling the refugee program a critical pillar or our national security and our foreign policy.
The current global humanitarian crisis requires strong American leadership, the senators wrote, calling for a robust refugee admissions goal.
The same day, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee wrote to Mr. Kelly and Tom Price, the secretary of Health and Human Services, requesting more information, including a briefing with White House officials by next week, about whether the administration suppressed the agencys study finding that refugees were on balance a fiscal benefit.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration will resign at the end of the week, according to law enforcement officials, who said he had become convinced that President Trump had little respect for the law.
The official, Chuck Rosenberg, who twice served as chief of staff to the former F.B.I.
director James B. Comey and remains a close confidant, had grown disillusioned with Mr. Trump.
The president fired Mr. Comey in May, and then in July told law enforcement officers please dont be too nice when handling crime suspects.
Mr. Rosenberg forcefully rejected Mr. Trumps comment, sending an email to all D.E.A.
employees at the time to tell them that they should not mistreat suspects.
We must earn and keep the public trust and continue to hold ourselves to the very highest standards, Mr. Rosenberg wrote in the internal email.
Ours is an honorable profession and, so, we will always act honorably.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Trump has injected the White House into law enforcement matters in ways that have made many career officials uncomfortable.
The president spoke disparagingly about ongoing criminal investigations into his own associates, encouraged the Justice Department to investigate political rivals including Hillary Clinton and said he would never have nominated Jeff Sessions to be attorney general if he had known Mr.
Sessions would recuse himself from an investigation into his associates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rosenberg, who was appointed by President Barack Obama in 2015, is a career prosecutor.
Under President George W. Bush, he served as the United States attorney in both southern Texas and eastern Virginia.
Photo

WASHINGTON  Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, announced on Tuesday that he would not seek re-election next year, a move that is likely to set off a scramble pitting mainstream Republicans against President Trumps populist wing.
Mr. Corker, 65, an establishment Republican who joined the Senate in 2007, would probably have drawn a primary challenge from the right  and hinted as much in his statement announcing his retirement, which said he had always been drawn to the idea of a citizen legislator.
I also believe the most important public service I have to offer our country could well occur over the next 15 months, Mr. Corker said, and I want to be able to do that as thoughtfully and independently as I did the first 10 years and nine months of my Senate career.
Mr. Corkers decision not to run again creates the first open Senate seat of the 2018 election cycle.
Jennifer Duffy, an analyst with the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, predicted Republicans would retain the seat.
But, she said, they will have a free-for-all in terms of the nomination.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

One likely candidate is Joe Carr, a Tea Party favorite and former state representative who unsuccessfully challenged Tennessees other Republican senator, Lamar Alexander, in 2014.
Others are Representative Marsha Blackburn, a staunch Trump ally, and possibly the retired football great Peyton Manning, who was a star quarterback at the University of Tennessee.
A conservative activist, Andy Ogles, has already announced his candidacy.
During his recent social media fusillade against the N.F.L.
and its players, President Trump claimed that ratings for football games were way down, except during pregame shows when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Photo

But data released Tuesday contradicts Mr. Trumps point.
Ratings for the N.F.L.s Week 3 games  the first played since he suggested players who dont stand for the national anthem should be fired  actually increased by 3 percent from last year, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Viewership did decline during three Sunday games, but increased in the 1 p.m. slot on CBS as well as during Thursday Night Football.
Monday nights game, between the Dallas Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals, spiked 63 percent in viewership from last year when the game shared the same time slot as the first presidential debate.
A White House spokesman referred The Times to viewership increases in pregame shows, so Mr. Trump has a point that his comments may have had an impact.
Nonetheless, his description of game viewership as way down is overstated, sports rating analysts agreed.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The league has seen a modest decline in viewership over the past few years, said Jon Lewis, who reports under the pseudonym Paulsen for Sports Media Watch, a website that specializes in following television ratings.
But Mr. Lewis disagreed with the notion that there were plummeting numbers.
Mr. McDade preserved thousands of jobs by preventing the closing of the Tobyhanna Army Depot, southeast of Scranton, and was instrumental in the designation of the Delaware Water Gap Recreation Area.
He wangled some $70 million from the federal budget for a museum called the Steamtown National Historic Site at an abandoned rail yard in Scranton, a tourist attraction that the National Park Service never requested.
And, with Mr. Murtha, he persuaded the Defense Department to buy about 300,000 tons, or roughly 10 percent, of the nations output of high-sulfur anthracite coal annually, providing the Pentagon with a perpetual 10-year supply of the fuel, which is mined in Pennsylvania.
A federal investigation of Mr. McDade, begun in 1988, culminated in his indictment in 1992 on bribery and racketeering charges.
He had been accused of failing to report gifts  including college scholarships for his son and vacation junkets  from people and corporations seeking government contracts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tried in 1996, he was acquitted after he testified that his failure to disclose the gifts had been an honest mistake.
Several of his aides blamed themselves for any reporting violations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McDade was re-elected twice while charges were pending.
But the indictment embarrassed congressional Republicans, especially after he refused to relinquish his leadership role as ranking minority member on the House Appropriations Committee.
In 1993, House Republicans voted to require indicted members to quit their leadership posts until their cases were resolved.
But they carved out an exemption for those who, like Mr. McDade, were already under indictment.
When the Republicans won control of the House in 1994, however, Mr. McDade was passed over for the committee chairmanship.
In 1998, as a result of his indictment, House Republicans enacted a law requiring federal prosecutors to follow the ethical code for lawyers in the state in which they were operating.
Prosecutors said the provision hampered their covert, undercover and sting investigations.
Joseph Michael McDade was born on Sept. 29, 1931, in Scranton to John B. McDade and the former Genevieve Hayes.
He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1953 and from the University of Pennsylvania law school.
He is survived by his wife, the former Sarah Scripture, and their son, Jared; two sons, Joseph Jr. and Mark, and two daughters, Aileen McDade and Deborah Bell, from an earlier marriage, to the former Mary Theresa OBrien, which ended in divorce; three sisters, Mary Gene Butler, Genevieve Tuthill and Ann Dwyer; and six grandchildren.
Apple alone is sitting on an overseas stash of almost $260 billion, according to Bloomberg, while Microsoft has more than $120 billion parked abroad.
The pharmaceutical giant Pfizer does not regularly disclose how much of its offshore profits are stored in foreign tax havens, but the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy estimates that at the end of 2016, it held almost $200 billion abroad.
Photo

Of course, the standard claims are being made about the vast stimulative effects of the repatriated cash.
They are being met this time with vigorous counterclaims based on the results of the Bush administrations shot over a decade ago.
Back then, companies found their way around regulations forbidding this use of the money to simply benefit shareholders and corporate chiefs.
A Senate commission reported that the top 15 repatriating corporations reduced their overall United States work force by 20,931 jobs, even as share buybacks increased and the annual compensation for their top five executives jumped 27 percent from 2004 to 2005 and another 30 percent the next year.
Pfizer, for instance, brought back $35.5 billion, the largest amount repatriated by a single company during the tax holiday, according to the Senate report.
Then it turned around and spent over $20 billion in stock repurchases from 2005 to 2007.
By 2007, the aggregate compensation of its top five executives was nearly $13 million higher than in 2004.
Its United States payroll was 12,000 smaller.
The pattern was similar across most repatriating companies.
Hewlett-Packard, which brought home $14.5 billion, bought back $22 billion worth of stock over the three years and cut its payroll by more than 8,500.
The tobacco company Altria, which brought over $6 billion home during the holiday, spent $2.5 billion on share buybacks and bumped pay in the executive ranks by more than $50 million, but cut 6,000 jobs.
A few years back, Ms. Forbes explained to my colleague Floyd Norris how the computer manufacturer Dell had lobbied hard for the holiday  claiming that part of the money would be used to build a plant in Winston-Salem, N.C.
They did bring back $4 billion, and spent $100 million on the plant, which they admitted would have been built anyway, she said.
About two months after that, they used $2 billion for a share buyback.
Profits Held Outside the U.S.
The 10 companies with the most profit held outside the United States last year, in billions.
Apple Pfizer Microsoft G.E.
IBM Johnson & Johnson Cisco Merck Google Exxon Mobil $230.2 197.1 124.0 82.0 71.4 66.2 65.6 63.1 60.7 54.0

With a new move afoot to put such holdings back on American books, there is a critical question that is too quickly glossed over: Why do businesses act this way?
Why didnt corporate executives invest more in their businesses and their work forces?
Why did they go to the trouble of dribbling around a rule forbidding the use of repatriated profits to pay themselves a bonus?
(Note to Congress: Money is fungible.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Call me nave.
Professor Forbes and her colleagues  indeed, many economists  might swat the question away by arguing that businesses didnt use the extra cash to invest and employ because they were well-run businesses, well invested and sufficiently staffed to maximize their profitability.
There is truth to this argument.
In fact, most corporate investment today comes not from retained earnings but from borrowing.
Bringing a foreign profit stash home has little effect on investment incentives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Still, the question should resonate in an administration that came to power on a promise to address the plight of the working class.
Because the working class stands on the other end of a deal with the corporate class.
I dont think it is possible to fully address workers demands without understanding, and changing, corporate motivations.
Many forces have shaped this deal, including technology, which replaced workers performing routine tasks, and globalization, which squeezed the margins of many businesses and exposed their workers to competition from cheap labor markets.
And yet it would be a mistake to ignore the impact of a corporate ethos that has come to focus on rewarding shareholders and executives at the expense of any other consideration  be it workers welfare or even the companys long-term sustainability.
Indeed, workers today amount to little more than a line on the cost side of businesses balance sheets, with little claim to its prosperity.
Corporate profits have risen over the last quarter-century, as a share of the nations income, even as the workers share has shrunk.
While executive pay has soared  padded with stock options and shares  the earnings of ordinary workers are below where they were in the 1970s.
Whats more, the pensions that ensured workers a retirement perch in the middle class have been replaced by 401(k) savings accounts  which are cheaper for companies but put workers retirement prospects at the mercy of the stock market.
How you divide the pie is a choice, said Rick Wartzman, who heads the KH Moon Center for a Functioning Society at the Drucker Institute of Claremont Graduate University.
It is being carved differently.
The change has happened across the board.
In his book The End of Loyalty, published in May by Public Affairs, Mr. Wartzman lays out a shift in corporate culture both in success stories like Coca-Cola and General Electric and in less successful ones, like Eastman Kodak and General Motors.
For workers, the story was the same, whether they were working at a winner or a losing firm, he said.
The good news is that it is not impossible to modify the behavior of the corporate leaders who have so drastically altered the contract with their work force over the last few decades.
While it may be tempting to cast the new breed of executives as selfish villains who somehow lost their sense of right and wrong, the shift in their behavior responded to a shift in the incentives they faced.
It was fed by a belief that snaked its way three or four decades ago from the halls of the University of Chicago through investment-bank trading floors and into the corner offices of corporate America: that the interests of corporate managers must be brought into tight alignment with those of shareholders.
It was accompanied by one of the most destabilizing propositions in the modern history of corporate governance: This alignment was best achieved by paying corporate managers almost exclusively with stock.
Mihir A. Desai of Harvard Business School argues that this strategy amounted to outsourcing corporate compensation decisions to the capital markets  which have no way of telling whether the rise or fall in shares is caused by executives strategies or simply luck.
This produced an enormous bubble in chief executive pay  which rose in tandem with the stock.
It also made chief executives jobs more uncertain, vulnerable to market downturns.
And it vastly distorted their behavior, putting every decision at the service of the share price at the close of the quarter.
Professor Desai points out that in the end, this structure does not really serve shareholders, at least not those with an interest in a companys prosperity more than a few quarters down the road.
Capitalism seems to be serving managers and investment managers at the expense of shareholders, he wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Changing this behavior is not beyond the reach of policy.
Just as changes in the tax treatment of executive pay in the 1990s encouraged stock-based remuneration, tax reforms might motivate corporate executives to invest for the long term rather than for an immediate stock bump  maybe even encourage stable employment and worker training.
Until then, offering tax breaks to American corporations seems more likely to line the pockets of executives and shareholders than to improve their long-term prospects or the prosperity of their workers.
This week, Target said it would raise its minimum hourly wage to $11 next month and then to $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
On Tuesday, Ms. Yellen visited Cuyahoga Community College, which runs job-training programs to help workers gain skills and help employers find qualified workers.
Swagelok, an Ohio company that manufactures industrial parts, has started offering guaranteed internships to students who complete an eight-week training program at the college.
Christopher Koszewski, 55, enrolled after 17 years as a truck driver, eager for less dangerous work and higher pay.
You can go on Craigslist every day and see five to seven new want ads for skilled machinists, Mr. Koszewski said.
Its a target-rich environment.
The economic mystery is that inflation has remained low despite the tightening labor market.
The Fed has undershot its goal of 2 percent annual inflation in each of the past five years.
After getting close early this year, inflation has swooned again.
Low inflation is a concern because it keeps nominal interest rates at a relatively low level, Ms. Yellen said, limiting the Feds ability to respond to economic downturns.
Some Fed officials argue that it is also a sign the economy is weaker than it appears.
Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said Monday in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the Fed should wait for stronger inflation before raising interest rates.
Referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy, Mr. Evans said, Inflation has been lower than the F.O.M.C.s 2 percent target for too long, and there is little in the recent data to suggest that inflation will soon rise to target.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has warned that the Fed may be contributing to the problem by failing to convince the public through its actions that it is committed to raising inflation back to 2 percent.
That, however, remains a minority opinion among Fed policy makers.
Ms. Yellen and her closest allies have continued to describe low inflation as an aberration.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Monday in Syracuse  a city at the same latitude as Grand Rapids  that he expected inflation to rise in the coming months, and that he expected the Fed to keep raising interest rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Fed policy makers generally agree that a surplus of workers eases inflation, while a shortage of workers leads to higher inflation.
In her judgment, Ms. Yellen said, this is a Goldilocks moment  the labor market is neither too hot nor too cold.
I view the data we have in hand as suggesting a generally healthy labor market, not one in which substantial slack remains or one that is overheated, Ms. Yellen said.
She said the weakness of inflation in recent years reflected other factors, including idiosyncratic events like a price war among cellphone service providers.
This year, she said, the weakness is harder to explain.
I think my main message about what weve been seeing is that 2017, the shortfall in inflation is a mystery, she said.
Ms. Yellen explored three explanations for the weakness in her remarks.
Some economists argue that the low unemployment rate is a misleading measure of the health of the labor market because it does not account for the recent increase in the share of American adults who are neither working nor looking for work.
Some of those people are returning to work as the economy gains strength.
The high cost of child care kept Jessica Dicus out of the work force for the past 10 years, but she recently enrolled in the same training program as Mr. Koszewski.
She is paying $4,200; when she completes the program, she will make $15 an hour.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I never planned on being out of the labor force for so long, said Ms. Dicus, 37, who served in the Army before starting a family.
Now its time for me to get on with my life.
The Fed under Ms. Yellen has prolonged its stimulus program, but she said she saw clear evidence the labor market was strengthening.
For example, the percentage of firms planning wage increases has returned to its pre-recession level, she said.
Ms. Yellen gave more credence to the theory espoused by Mr. Evans: the possibility that Americans are losing confidence the Fed will return inflation to 2 percent, and that those diminished expectations in turn are reducing the pace of inflation.
Finally, she said that changes in the structure of the economy, such as slower growth in health care costs, might be suppressing inflation even as the labor market tightened.
These significant uncertainties about the likely pace of inflation weighed in favor of caution in raising rates, she said.
Moving too quickly risks overadjusting policy to head off projected developments that may not come to pass, she said.
The Feds concern about low inflation strikes some critics as misplaced.
I cant work up any enthusiasm for that issue, said Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at Harvard.
I cant see why anybody other than a professional economist or a journalist who covers these issues should care about whether inflation is 1.6 percent or 2 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said he shared in the general puzzlement that inflation was not rising more quickly, but he said the Feds sole concern was to keep it that way.
I was there when the inflation rate was 10 percent in the late 1970s, he said.
If somebody told me we would have zero inflation, I would say thats O.K.
We have been really treated very, very nicely by the governor, Mr. Trump said of Mr. Rossell, whose island is without power, water or fuel  putting it, the governor said on Monday, on the brink of a humanitarian crisis.
The busy hurricane season of 2017 has given fresh purpose to a president who, until now, made most of his own weather inside the West Wing.
On Tuesday, he said he would visit Puerto Rico and the storm-ravaged Virgin Islands next week.
The White House issued photos of a grave-looking Mr. Trump being briefed in the Situation Room.
But the hurricanes are yet another reminder of this presidents rare capacity for self-congratulation  a trait that seems particularly ill-suited to the aftermath of deadly disasters, when the plight of people who lost homes or even family members would seem to take precedence over testimonials to FEMA.
From the start, Mr. Trump has had trouble separating himself from the story.
On his first visit to Texas after Hurricane Harvey swamped Houston, the president went to a firehouse in Corpus Christi, nearly 220 miles away, for a briefing with federal, state and local officials that stopped just short of being a pep rally.
Well congratulate each other when its all finished, he told the group.
Outside, he greeted a crowd of about 1,000 who had gathered by saying, What a crowd!
What a turnout!
Four days later, Mr. Trump returned to the state  this time, to meet actual victims of the storm.
He handed out cardboard boxes with hot dogs and potato chips to residents in Houston, and talked about the love he had seen in the NRG Center, a convention center converted into a shelter for nearly 1,200 people.
But he could not resist a victory lap.
Theyre really happy with whats going on, he told reporters traveling with him.
Its something thats been very well received.
Even by you guys, its been very well received.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Florida, after Hurricane Irma roared up the Gulf Coast, Mr. Trump seemed more at ease in his role as a consoler.
At a ruined mobile home park in Naples, he handed out encouragement along with hoagies.
But when one man yelled, Where was Obama during the last hurricane?
On a golf course, Mr. Trump stopped and asked whether he had voted for him.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Best vote of your life?
the president said, with a grin.
Puerto Rico, unlike Texas and Florida, is not Trump country.
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida trounced him in the Republican primary there in March 2016.
And Mr. Trump has been noticeably less vocal about the damage from Hurricane Maria.
Over the weekend, as Puerto Ricans ran perilously low on food, water and fuel, he posted nothing about the crisis.
Yet he posted 17 tweets about sports  from the dispute he single-handedly revived over the N.F.L.
and the national anthem to his withdrawal of an invitation for Stephen Curry and the Golden State Warriors to visit the White House.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump denied that he had neglected Puerto Rico in favor of his feud with professional athletes.
Ive heard that before: Was I preoccupied?
he said.
Not at all, not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
Some residents of the Virgin Islands, parts of which were leveled by Irma, feel similarly overlooked by Washington.
Kenneth E. Mapp, the governor, assured them that Mr. Trump had told him he loves the Virgin Islands.
When the president finally did get around to addressing Puerto Rico, on Monday, he led off with some unsympathetic observations about the territorys well-publicized fiscal problems.
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble, he said in a series of tweets.
Its old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities  and doing well.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump said he had deployed Navy ships to Puerto Rico.
His homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, and the FEMA administrator, Brock Long, traveled there to meet with officials.
But even then, Mr. Trump said less about the resilience of the people than about the territorys problems.
The federal government, he said, had to take over some security because police officers, having lost their homes, had gone off duty.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After his news conference, Mr. Trump tweeted, Americas hearts & prayers are with the people of #PuertoRico & the #USVI.
We will get through this  and we will get through this TOGETHER!
To the extent that Mr. Trump lauded Puerto Rican officials, however, it was for their praise and gratitude for his administrations efforts.
We have had tremendous reviews from government officials, as we have in Texas and Louisiana, and as we have in Florida, Mr. Trump said, singling out Greg Abbott of Texas and Rick Scott of Florida as great governors.
For a moment, it looked like he would pay a similar tribute to the governor of Puerto Rico, Mr. Rossell.
The governor has been so incredible in his, Mr. Trump said, pausing a beat, in his statements about the job were doing.
However, we should be careful not to think there are too many savings to be had by removing just any kind of administrative waste.
A number of advocates have argued that by removing medical underwriting and individual rating, insurers would be much more efficient and save money.
After the Affordable Care Act imposed guaranteed issue and community ratings, huge savings did not result.
Further, one persons waste is another persons job.
The trade-offs cant be ignored.
THE SWEET SPOT IS REGULATED NONPROFITS?
Based on personal experience with the German health care system and my sisters personal experience with the Swiss system: Both systems use competing nonprofit private companies (that is the key) that are heavily regulated.
A highly regulated nonprofit company is an efficient compromise construction between a government single-payer system (not exposed to competition) and between a free market of competing, unregulated, for-profit health insurance companies.
Gerhard, NY

Austin and Aaron respond:

This may be entirely correct.
Lets remember that Switzerland won the battle, and most people in that country do have insurance from a regulated market of guaranteed-issue, community-rated nonprofit private insurance companies.
Many components of the United States health care system are nonprofit, too, and theres a robust literature on how nonprofit and for-profit entities fare relative to each other.
For instance, there appears to be a relationship between the availability of nonprofit nursing homes in an area and levels of consumer welfare.
A review of systematic reviews of profit versus nonprofit hospitals found that for certain outcomes nonprofit hospitals performed better.
Overall quality and efficiency differences could not be determined, though.
In general, however, it appears that for-profit entities focus on cost (pushing it lower) while nonprofits focus on quality (pushing it higher).
There are always trade-offs, and we in the U.S. have generally favored the latter.
WHAT ABOUT THE DUTCH?
Weird how you picked the U.K. and Germany but not the Netherlands.
According to the annual Euro Health Consumer Index (E.H.C.I.
), the Netherlands systematically has the best health care in Europe  yes, better than Switzerland, year on year, and with the U.K. at 14th sandwiched between Portugal (13th) and the Czech Republic (15th).
Rdeman, London

Austin and Aaron respond: There are, of course, more countries than we had space to discuss.
We tried to pick countries that varied across the spectrum from socialized to privatized.
Though we welcome delving more deeply into some of these other countries, aspects of them are close to those of the ones weve already discussed.
The Netherlands, like many other countries, has a health care system along what the Princeton professor Uwe Reinhardt calls the Bismarckian model, in which health insurance is mandated from one of a small number of tightly regulated nonprofits.
People also can buy voluntary insurance above that, which covers things not covered by statutory insurance.
The country spends about 12 percent of gross domestic product on health care, and out-of-pocket payments are quite low.
How it would have compared in this battle isnt clear, but we think it would have done pretty well.
BEING INJURED ABROAD

We received many, many testimonials from American readers who received good treatment at reasonable prices (and no payment troubles) while living abroad or traveling.
By contrast, one reader from Australia advised that all visitors to the United States carry travel insurance, and a Canadian expressed surprise (below) at what awaited him after he broke his neck on a visit to the U.S.

Five years ago I fell off a rock and broke my hip while vacationing in Ireland.
An ambulance took me to the hospital.
Needless to say, my biggest worry was how am I going to pay for this.
I was distraught.
I had no coverage in the USA.
The staff at the hospital were very kind and assured me I would be O.K.
They replaced my hip, and when it was time to leave, they asked if I could pay $600.
No other bills arriving four months later, like in the USA.
$600, one bill, Done!
Jaw-dropping amazing.
I am grateful to Ireland, thank you!
Golf Pork, Seattle I live in British Columbia.
Some years ago I broke my neck in a motor vehicle accident in Washington State.
I received excellent treatment and had the comfort of knowing that my British Columbia government health insurance would cover all expenses, even out of country.
I was, however, taken aback when the first person I met in the emergency ward had a clipboard and was asking me how I would pay for all this.
I had never before faced this question.
David Paterson, Vancouver

Austin and Aaron respond: We hesitate to allow anecdotes to define a health care system.
What matters is the overall experience.
Reid wrote an amazing book on this subject in 2009, though, which was reviewed in The New York Times.
Another problem with anecdotes about overseas health care excellence is that they can always be countered by people who came to the United States because they couldnt get good care in their country.
We hear all the time about how people from Canada flock to the United States when wait times are too long.
Those stories are almost always exceptions, not the rule, as a great paper in Health Affairs showed.
Its interesting to note, though, that most of the stories in the comments are driven by the shock of Americans when they can receive high-quality, reasonably priced health care in other countries.
Weve been conditioned to believe that the only choices available are our system or utter chaos.
This exercise was designed to show otherwise.
There are lots of other choices available, many of them are good, and some that are probably better.
Insurers say at least some of those increases were to account for the policy uncertainty brought by the Trump administration, which has indicated that it may hold back some routine payments to insurers and that it will reduce outreach to possible customers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Complete market failure seems to have been averted: At least one insurer has agreed to sell health plans in every county of the country.
But Republican critics of the law are right that many parts of the country will have just one insurer offering plans, and that single insurer may be charging very high prices for its products.
Most Obamacare customers wont feel the sting of higher premiums, because government subsidies limit their exposure to a percentage of their income.
But there are still millions of people who buy their own insurance and earn too much to qualify for subsidies.
The rocky market will be worse for them, and possibly unaffordable.
Senators in the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions committee had been negotiating over a possible bipartisan deal to help stabilize the markets.
The expected package would have guaranteed the disputed payments to insurers and provided states with some policy flexibility in future years.
But that effort was shelved by congressional leadership as part of the failed push to pass the Graham-Cassidy health care overhaul.
Now, with contract signings imminent, it is probably too late for lawmakers to improve conditions much for next year.
(On the flip side, its also probably too late for President Trump to create substantially more havoc for markets by declining to pay the insurance subsidies, as he has periodically threatened to do.)
The Trump administration has, so far, been a reluctant overseer of the Obamacare markets.
It has slashed its budget for outreach and enrollment assistance for possible customers, meaning that consumers may have more trouble finding out when and how to sign up for health insurance.
Its department of health and human services keeps sending news releases cheerfully noting the laws shortcomings.
(A recent one had the subject line Its not working...)

Officials also recently announced that they expect to take the HealthCare.gov enrollment website offline for maintenance for up to 12 hours on five of the six Sundays during the enrollment period, substantially longer than was needed last year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The administration argues that people eligible for Obamacare programs are already well-informed about their options, but there is substantial survey research suggesting that many may be confused or simply unaware of how the program works.
That may be especially true now, given the months of news about efforts to repeal the law.
Taken together, higher prices and less outreach are likely to mean fewer people buying coverage on the individual insurance market.
Insurers views on whether to participate in 2019 are likely to be shaped by their experience next year.
The Trump administration has tended to use the poor performance of the health care markets as a prod to legislators to move forward on repeal.
But the timing of repeals collapse means that, even absent a legislative overhaul, the markets will suffer.
A new poll of 2,200 adults by Morning Consult found that only 54 percent of Americans know that people born in Puerto Rico, a commonwealth of the United States, are U.S. citizens.
(Because Puerto Rico is not a state, they do not vote in presidential elections, but they send one nonvoting representative to Congress.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This finding varied significantly by age and education.
Only 37 percent of people ages 18 to 29 know people born in Puerto Rico are citizens, compared with 64 percent of those 65 or older.
Similarly, 47 percent of Americans without a college degree know Puerto Ricans are Americans, compared with 72 percent of those with a bachelors degree and 66 percent of those with a postgraduate education.
Inaccurate beliefs on this question matter, because Americans often support cuts to foreign aid when asked to evaluate spending priorities.
In our poll, support for additional aid was strongly associated with knowledge of the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans.
More than 8 in 10 Americans who know Puerto Ricans are citizens support aid, compared with only 4 in 10 of those who do not.
Percent of Americans Who Support Aid for Puerto Rico About half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, and they are more likely to support aid.
Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44 Support among those who: Know Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens Dont know 81% 44

Being informed about the citizenship status of Puerto Ricans also modestly increases support for aid.
Over all, 64 percent of Americans in the poll who were given no additional information said that Puerto Rico should receive additional government aid to help rebuild the territory, while 14 percent said it was not necessary and 20 percent said they did not know or had no opinion.
But when a random sample of participants was informed that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens before answering this question, support for aid increased four percentage points, to 68 percent.
These effects were especially large for Republicans (+9 percentage points), Trump voters (+10 percentage points) and Hispanic respondents (+12 percentage points).
For example, 67 percent of Trump voters who saw a prompt informing them that Puerto Ricans were U.S. citizens supported additional aid, compared with 57 percent who did not see the prompt.
These findings are consistent with research showing that people tend to allocate contributions in laboratory games toward fellow members of their group.
They also underline the pivotal role the news media can play in shaping public sympathies.
Previous research has found that competing stories can crowd foreign disasters out of the news, reducing aid provided by the United States.
In this case, the lack of media attention could lead people to ignore Puerto Ricos plight.
Our sympathies for other people depends in part on whether we see them as fellow members of our tribe.
Without more coverage, it may be easy to forget that the people suffering are our fellow Americans.
Morning Consult data was collected from Sept. 22-24, 2017, among a national sample of 2,200 adults.
The interviews were conducted online, and the data was weighted to approximate a target sample of adults based on age, race/ethnicity, gender, educational attainment and region.
A big reason for the decline: Unemployed men are less likely to be seen as marriage material.
Women dont want to take a risk on somebody whos not going to be able to provide anything, said Sharon Sassler, a sociologist at Cornell who published Cohabitation Nation: Gender, Class, and the Remaking of Relationships with Amanda Jayne Miller last month.
As marriage has declined, though, childbearing has not, which means that more children are living in families without two parents and the resources they bring.
The sharpest distinction in American family life is between people with a bachelors or not, said Andrew Cherlin, a sociologist at Johns Hopkins and author of Labors Love Lost: The Rise and Fall of the Working-Class Family in America.
Just over half of adolescents in poor and working-class homes live with both their biological parents, compared with 77 percent in middle- and upper-class homes, according to the research brief, by W. Bradford Wilcox and Wendy Wang of the Institute for Family Studies.
Thirty-six percent of children born to a working-class mother are born out of wedlock, versus 13 percent of those born to middle- and upper-class mothers.
The research brief defined working class as adults with an adjusted family income between the 20th and 50th percentiles, with high school diplomas but not bachelors degrees.
Poor is defined as those below the 20th percentile or without high school diplomas, and the middle and upper class as those above the 50th percentile or with college degrees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Americans across the income spectrum still highly value marriage, sociologists have found.
But while it used to be a marker of adulthood, now it is something more wait to do until the other pieces of adulthood are in place  especially financial stability.
For people with less education and lower earnings, that might never happen.
College graduates are more likely to plot their lives methodically  vetting people they date until theyre sure they want to move in with them, and using birth control to delay childbirth until their careers are underway.
Less educated people are more likely to move in with boyfriends or girlfriends in a matter of months, and to get pregnant at a younger age and before marriage.
This can make financial and family stability harder to achieve later on.
It starts with moving in together quickly, for economic exigency reasons as opposed to relationship reasons, Ms. Sassler said.
Then struggling with making ends meet and trying to manage this with a partner just elevates the challenges.
Evidence shows that the struggles of men without college degrees in recent years have led to a decline in marriage.
It has been particularly acute in regions where well-paying jobs in male-dominated fields have disappeared because of automation and trade.
In a working paper published in July, three economists studied how the decline in manufacturing jobs from 1990 to 2014, across industries and regions, contributed to the rapid, simultaneous decline of traditional household structures.
Labor market changes made men less marriageable, they concluded.
There were fewer available men, because unemployment was associated with a rise in incarceration or mortality from drugs and alcohol.
The men who were left were less desirable, because they lacked income and were more likely to drink to excess or use drugs.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Researchers found a corresponding increase in births to unmarried mothers.
The decline in marriage was not offset by more couples living together.
A bad economy lowers the cost of having bad values  substance abuse, engaging in crime, not looking for a job right away, said Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, who wrote the paper with David Autor of M.I.T.
and David Dorn of the University of Zurich.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Never-married adults cite financial instability as a major reason for being single, especially those who are low-income or under 30, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.
Most men feel its important for a husband to be a financial provider, especially men without college degrees, according to another new Pew survey.
Women, meanwhile, have learned from watching a generation of divorce that they need to be able to support themselves.
And many working-class women arent interested in taking responsibility for a man without a job.
They say, If hes not offering money or assets, why make it legal?
said June Carbone, a law professor at the University of Minnesota and the author with Naomi Cahn of Marriage Markets: How Inequality Is Remaking the American Family.
While researchers say its stability, not a marriage license, that matters for children, American couples who live together but dont marry are generally less likely to stay committed.
When thinking about how to make families more stable, researchers debate whether the decline in marriage is an economic issue or a cultural one.
Those on the left usually say its economic  and could be reversed if there were more and better jobs for men without college degrees.
Those on the right are more likely to say its because of a deterioration of cultural values.
In reality, economics and culture both play a role, and influence each other, social scientists say.
When well-paying jobs became scarce for less educated men, they became less likely to marry.
As a result, the culture changed: Marriage was no longer the norm, and out-of-wedlock childbirth was accepted.
Even if jobs returned, an increase in marriage wouldnt necessarily immediately follow.
Economists often downplay cultural factors, Mr. Hanson said.
We think about marriage in a laboratory setting, and ignore the role of churches and bowling leagues and community organizations, he said.
When you have job decline in a big way, that fabric unravels.
So even if you bring the jobs back, once the damage is done, it might take a while to repair.
If economics and culture are linked, then policy ideas aimed at creating more stability for children would ideally address both.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Social scientists suggest more routes to good jobs, like through community colleges or apprenticeships.
More affordable housing for young people would help, so they dont move in together simply from economic necessity.
Inexpensive and accessible contraception would help, too.
Some have suggested expanding the child tax credit, and removing the marriage penalty for benefits like the earned-income tax credit.
Changing culture is harder: Government marriage promotion programs havent worked well, for example.
Yet its clear from research that if relationships progressed more slowly, and childbirth came later, families would be more stable.
People with college degrees seem to operate with more of a long-term perspective, social scientists say.
They are more likely to take on family responsibilities slowly, and they often benefit from parental resources to do so  like help paying for education, birth control or rent to live on their own.
In turn, the young adults prioritize waiting to have children until they are more able to give their children similar opportunities.
The cultural reinforcement, people relying on contraception and abortion, reinforces a norm, that you dont have the kid with the wrong guy, Ms. Carbone said.
Mr. Wilcox suggests a bigger emphasis in high schools and pop culture on whats known as the success sequence: degree, job, marriage, baby.
The idea is that if people follow that sequence, their odds of landing in poverty are much lower, he said.
But for the insurer, unless it is getting a discount or a rebate from the manufacturer, the cost is about $130 minus the co-payment.
The company is by no means alone in this tactic.
Many other drug manufacturers also offer coupon cards online for their brand-name products that compete with generics.
Such coupons are not new.
But from 2007 to 2010, brand-name drugs with coupons grew as a share of retail drug spending, to 54 percent from 26 percent.
The figure may well be even higher today, according to Leemore Dafny, an economist at Harvard Business School.
Though such coupons assist patients, they do nothing for insurers, for whom generics are still a better deal.
And thats the problem.
By encouraging patients to switch from generic to brand drugs, coupons effectively impose higher costs on insurers.
That ends up increasing premiums, and not for any particularly good reason.
Generic drugs are generally regarded as equivalent to their corresponding brand products and are 80 percent cheaper, on average.
This is precisely why plans impose much higher cost-sharing for brand-name drugs than their generic equivalent.
Doing so can help keep premiums down without harming patients.
Perhaps in response, Americans are using more generics.
In 2006, 90 percent of prescriptions that were filled were for a generic equivalent to a brand-name drug, when such a generic was available.
In 2012, that number had increased to 95 percent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The circumvention of insurance plan designs by these coupons has long been suspected to contribute to drug spending and premium growth.
A recent study examining data from 2007 through 2010 and published in The American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, puts some numbers to the phenomenon.
Co-pay coupons increase use of brand drugs for which generics are available by 60 percent and spending by as much as 4.6 percent.
Coupons raise spending in two ways, said Ms. Dafny, an author of the study.
In addition to making more expensive brand drugs more attractive to consumers, it allows manufacturers to raise brand prices.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For example, the $4 cost with the coupon holds the consumers prices fixed at a low level.
That allows the manufacturer to raise the overall price without losing sales.
This raises spending, too, but for the insurer.
In total, the coupons for drugs with generic competition are responsible for several billion dollars of additional drug spending per year, according to the study, which was also written by Christopher Ody with Northwesterns Kellogg School of Management and Matthew Schmitt with the U.C.L.A.
Anderson School of Management.
The coupons do so, by and large, without expanding the number of people using medications, just by switching which product they purchase  brand or generic.
Drug manufacturers also offer coupons for drugs without generic competition, but they were not the focus of the study.
If drug coupons are problematic for insurers and drive up premiums, why dont insurers reject them?
They say they cant ban them because they cant tell when a coupon is being redeemed at the pharmacy counter, Ms. Dafny said.
But public payers ban them, after all, and their enrollees pick up prescriptions at the same pharmacies.
Medicare, for example, bans their use.
But enforcement is incomplete, and by one estimate 6 percent of Medicare enrollees use coupons anyway.
And Massachusetts has passed laws that ban co-pay coupons for brand drugs with generic equivalents.
The likelier explanation, Ms. Dafny says, is that denying consumers access to coupons would cause a backlash.
In the short term, out-of pocket-prices would rise for the few: the consumers relying upon them.
But in the long term, encouraging consumers to use generic drugs when available  which is what insurers are trying to do  would reduce drug spending and premiums for everyone.
Buried in the Affordable Care Act is a provision that could help promote all of these goals.
That provision allows states to waive nearly all of the rules about how they run their insurance marketplaces under Obamacare, if they can prove that their replacement plan would offer similarly comprehensive insurance to just as many people, at the same or lower cost.
An older, related program allows states to make modifications to their Medicaid program that dont cost the federal government more money, if the states adhere to various guidelines.
The Obamacare program, known as the state innovation waiver, was set up to kick in this year.
And, so far, it appears that only a handful of states wish to refashion the Obamacare status quo.
Two states have put waivers into effect.
Hawaii used one to do away with Obamacares small-business insurance marketplace.
Alaska established a special fund to pay medical bills of patients who needed very expensive care, lowering the premiums on the market.
Several other states have applied for waivers of various sorts, and these are undergoing federal review.
Why havent more states come forward?
One reason is that coming up with a brand-new health care system is hard, and not every state may be interested in doing it.
Another is that states have complained that the Obamacare application rules are too strict and onerous.
The rules require states to pass legislation endorsing a state plan, to undergo a six-month review, and to adhere to tests to make sure that the new plan will protect the people who are helped by Obamacare.
States have also said that it can be hard to make related reforms to both the marketplace and Medicaid programs, since they must undergo separate reviews for their budgetary effects.
Photo

But in recent hearings, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions has been discussing options to address state requests, and ease the process.
The committees chairman, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, has been pushing for changes that would make it easier for states to try new policy approaches.
And Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking member, was willing to make some concessions in exchange for a promise to fund insurance subsidies caught up in a court fight.
The Alexander-Murray negotiations were shelved as the Graham-Cassidy bill picked up steam, but they could begin again.
In his statement, Mr. McCain mentioned the Alexander-Murray negotiations as an avenue for bipartisan reform and said, I hope they will resume.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The idea of the innovation waiver originally came from the Democrats.
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon wrote the provision because he wanted states to have more options.
An expanded innovation program might lead to more experiments from the left  something approaching a single-payer system from a state like Vermont, say  as well as those from the right.
But making it easier for states to receive waivers could be a way for Republican senators to give states more flexibility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There were, of course, many other features of the Republican bill that could not be easily replicated by waiver.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have redistributed a big pool of federal funding among states.
And it would have changed the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, putting spending on poor children, disabled Americans and many people living in nursing homes on a strict diet.
Any bipartisan deal would require the votes of at least eight Democrats, which makes drastic changes to the current rules unrealistic.
But there remain opportunities for state experimentation.
The Trump administration has signaled that it is eager to help promote state flexibility.
Tom Price, the secretary of health and human services, wrote to governors in March, urging them to apply.
Not every state has felt its proposals were welcomed with enthusiasm so far.
If a top Republican concern is about the rigid structure of Obamacare, and states really want to build their own systems, there are still avenues to move in the direction Mr. Graham and Mr. Cassidy have sketched.
But while they might achieve many of the same policy goals, those efforts are likely to be cast as Obamacare revisions, not replacements.
But those two top contenders combine for lower than 50 percent odds in our expert survey  meaning that our panelists thought there was a better-than-even chance that the appointment will be one of many contenders with individually modest but collectively high chances of rising to the top of the presidents list.
Compared with PredictIt, an online marketplace based on news events, our experts saw slightly lower odds for either of them.
On Thursday afternoon, trading on PredictIt implied 30 percent odds for Ms. Yellen and 28 percent for Mr. Warsh.
Using our expert survey  and comments from some of the participants in it  heres a guide to President Trumps options as he makes perhaps the single most consequential economic decision of his first year in office.
Yellen reappointment: continuity and bipartisanship

Theres a tradition of reappointing Fed chairmen who were originally appointed by a member of the opposite party.
President Obama did so with Ben Bernanke; Bill Clinton with Alan Greenspan; and Ronald Reagan with Paul Volcker.
That tradition has helped keep the Fed, with its vast power over the economy and financial system, insulated a bit from politics, but President Trump has no obligation to follow it.
The case for renominating Ms. Yellen is straightforward.
She has presided over four years of steady economic expansion and rising financial markets.
She moved cautiously toward raising interest rates even though the economy seemed to be approaching full employment.
By contrast, some more conservative contenders for the job have indicated they want to raise rates more quickly, which could endanger the economy as President Trump approaches midterm elections in 2018 and a potential re-election battle in 2020.
After criticizing her during his campaign, President Trump has had some kind words for her, saying in July that he liked her and that shes done a good job.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Moreover, as President Trump dabbles in making deals with Democrats, reappointing Ms. Yellen could serve as an expression of good faith to Democratic senators.
As administration officials focus on tax legislation and other priorities on Capitol Hill, it might be helpful to them to nominate someone who might sail through confirmation, rather than demand a bruising, time-consuming battle.
Shes a known quantity, and there is less risk of disrupting the financial markets if the president renominates Dr. Yellen, said Brian Gardner, managing director of Washington Research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, and one of the panelists.
Although President Trump is unorthodox in many ways, every president wants calm financial markets.
The case against Ms. Yellen is similarly straightforward: She is a liberal economist in a government dominated by conservatives.
She is a cerebral academic serving during the presidency of a bombastic businessman.
And she is a staunch defender of the work the Fed and other bank regulators have done to try to limit risk in the financial system  including in a high-profile speech last month  amid an administration focused on deregulation.
Kevin Warsh: well connected, but with baggage

Our experts consensus was that Mr. Warsh has slightly better odds than Ms. Yellen.
He was a Fed governor from 2006 to 2011, and was a member of Mr. Bernankes inner circle in shaping the Feds extraordinary (and often extraordinarily unpopular) actions to battle the global financial crisis.
He is well connected in conservative political circles and is now a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford.
Before joining the Fed, where he was the youngest governor in the institutions history, he worked in the George W. Bush White House and at Morgan Stanley.
He has a law degree, but no advanced degree in economics.
Mr. Warsh has been a skeptic of the Feds efforts to boost the economy through quantitative easing and has advocated raising interest rates more quickly.
He also has a regulatory philosophy more in line with the administrations.
The Race to Be the Next Fed Chairman Appears to Be Wide Open Experts surveyed by The Times believe that Kevin Warsh and Janet Yellen stand the best shot at being appointed to lead the central bank, but combine for less than a 50 percent chance.
EXPERT CONSENSUS PREDICTIT Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22% Expert Consensus PredictIt Kevin Warsh Janet Yellen Gary Cohn John Taylor Glenn Hubbard Larry Lindsey Jay Powell John Allison Tom Hoenig Richard Davis Bill Dudley Rest of Field 23% 22% 12% 8% 7% 6% 5% 2% 2% 1% 1% 10% 28% 30% 13% 2% 2% 1% 1% 1% 22%

Another factor that might weigh in Mr. Warshs favor with the president?
Mr. Warshs father-in-law is Ronald Lauder, of the Este Lauder cosmetics fortune, a major Republican donor with longstanding ties to Mr. Trump.
If Mr. Warsh is nominated, expect significant blowback during the confirmation process from Democrats, who are likely to accuse the 47-year-old Mr. Warsh of being underqualified, of being responsible for the 2008 bank bailouts and inclined to regulate banks too lightly now, and of being too overtly political for the traditionally nonpartisan Fed chairmanship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whatever happened to Gary Cohn?
Not long ago, Gary Cohn, the head of the White House National Economic Council, looked like the leading candidate to be the next Fed chairman.
In late July, his odds were 46 percent on PredictIt.
But now our panel puts those odds at 12 percent, and PredictIts odds were about the same.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A former No.
2 at Goldman Sachs, Mr. Cohn has been reported to have swung out of favor with Mr. Trump after criticizing his response to racially motivated violence in Charlottesville, Va.
But there were some reasons to be skeptical of Mr. Cohns appointment to the Fed chairmanship even before that.
Mr. Cohn has a hard-charging style that would be an unusual fit for an agency that is run more like an academic department.
The last businessman to become Fed chairman, G. William Miller, was appointed by President Jimmy Carter and lasted only 18 months in the job.
And given his rsum, Mr. Cohns nomination would surely set off a heated confirmation battle.
Democrats would be eager to criticize the administration for naming a recent top executive at Goldman Sachs to be the nations most powerful financial regulator.
Some populist Republicans might join them.
Still, given the way people move in and out of Mr. Trumps favor, and his preference for appointees with business experience, a Cohn appointment cant be ruled out.
The other contenders

The expert consensus is that there is about a one-in-three chance collectively for the other possible nominees, even as each of them individually is viewed as having single-digit odds.
Foremost among them are several of the names we would probably be hearing about if a conventional Republican president were in the White House.
John B. Taylor is a respected economist at Stanford who worked in the George W. Bush administration and has been an influential voice among congressional Republicans who want to see the Fed bound by stricter rules governing its actions.
Glenn Hubbard was a top economic adviser to Mr. Bush who is dean of Columbia Business School.
Larry Lindsey was another top adviser to Mr. Bush and a former Fed governor with an economics doctorate from Harvard.
Our panels consensus odds for the three were 8, 7 and 6 percent, respectively.
Their doctorates and affiliations with top universities may actually be downsides in an administration that has shown disdain for academic expertise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another intriguing possibility is Jerome Powell, known as Jay, a current Fed governor who served in the George H.W.
Bush Treasury Department and was a partner at the Carlyle Group, the private equity firm.
If Mr. Trump wanted a nominee who would probably maintain continuity with current Fed policy but was more conservative and business-minded than Ms. Yellen, Mr. Powell would be a below-the-radar option.
The panel rates his odds of ending up in the job at 5 percent.
A range of other names has emerged in various reports, including the F.D.I.C.
vice chairman Thomas Hoenig and John Allison, the former chief executive of BB&T bank, but our panel assigns them only long-shot odds.
The surprise factor

Mr. Trump loves a surprise.
In his search for a secretary of state, for example, he considered numerous prominent options before going with Exxons chief executive, Rex Tillerson, a bit of an out-of-left-field choice.
As he focuses on the choice for Fed chief, a similar pattern could reappear, and a less conventional choice could emerge.
Thats why the consensus of our panel is that theres a 10 percent chance the nominee is not on this list at all.
Then again, in another appointment that has some similarities to the Fed chairmanship, the selection of a Supreme Court nominee, Mr. Trump went with a respected conservative jurist in Neil Gorsuch.
As Mr. Trump starts focusing on the Fed chief decision in the months ahead, that may be the biggest decision of them all: whether to look at conventional qualifications, or go with a surprise.
Either way, with Ms. Yellens term coming to a close and a crowded calendar of Senate business that could stand in the way of a confirmation vote, the clock is ticking.
ABOUT OUR PANEL: The odds listed here are based on a survey of 11 savvy observers of the Fed and economic policy making who were asked to offer a probability on each of the potential nominees listed.
Their probabilities were to add to 100 percent, including the odds on rest of field, or another nominee emerging.
Those odds were then averaged to create a consensus probability of each selection.
The participants were: Shehriyar Antia of Macro Insight Group; Tony Fratto of Hamilton Place Strategies; Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods; Krishna Guha of Evercore I.S.I.
; Roberto Perli of Cornerstone Macro; Douglas Rediker of International Capital Strategies; Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute; Phillip Swagel of the University of Maryland; Diane Swonk of DS Economics; Eric Winograd of AllianceBernstein; and Mark Zandi of Moodys Analytics.
Republican voters were roughly 40 points more likely than Republican elites to believe that controlling illegal immigration should be a top priority of American foreign policy (61 percent to 20 percent).
They were less likely to support the resettlement of Syrian refuges to the United States (27 percent to 71 percent).
And they were more likely to believe that immigrants and refuges entering the United States are a critical threat to the nation (55 percent to 16 percent).
Similar differences exist on issues of trade, globalization and Social Security.
These patterns help explain how Mr. Trump emerged as a viable candidate and eventual winner of the G.O.P.
nomination in 2016.
He went where Republican voters were, signaling this with his exhortations about building a wall and banning the entry of all Muslims, for example.
His candidacy was helped by the fact that other contenders wouldnt echo him to compete for those votes explicitly.
Photo

The survey patterns also suggest an upside for President Trump regarding his meetings and agreements with Democratic leaders.
He will be more in line with Republican elites on those topics  the type who routinely win support from a plurality of Republican voters.
Perhaps more important, protecting the children known as Dreamers (the beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program) is not seen by the public as the same as other immigration issues.
Most people  including many Republican voters  believe that once people have lived in the country for years, held a job, learned English, and are willing to pay back taxes, they should be able to stay.
Whether President Trumps recent moves are politically nave or shrewd turns on how worried he is about losing support among the Republican voters whom he courted specifically over illegal immigration, and whether these voters think that an agreement on DACA portends a broader softening on border control.
His base has stuck by him through many unimaginable episodes: Mr. Trump himself described their loyalty by saying that he could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldnt lose voters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He might be right.
Gabriel Lenz, a University of California, Berkeley, political scientist, has written a book about what happens among voters when leaders change positions on issues.
The book is titled Follow the Leader?
which gives you a hint of how things turn out.
On most issues, when candidates change their minds, supporters will mimic the change instead of abandoning the candidates.
As the book description says, In many cases, citizens first pick a politician and then adopt that politicians policy views.
But President Trump might also be wrong about this.
Using similar methods to Mr. Lenzs, Michael Tesler, a political scientist at the University of California, Irvine, has conducted research on long-held predispositions, like views about people who are different from you.
Mr. Tesler found that voters are less likely to change those kinds of positions to follow their party leaders.
Candidates who change their minds on straightforward policy issues like the tax rate are likely to see their voters change their minds on those issues.
The same is not true for topics drawing on racial or ethnic attitudes.
Mr. Trump regularly changes his mind on all sorts of things, so if his voters dont come along, he could always return to his earlier position to court them.
He has done it before on immigration.
After the 2012 presidential election, Mr. Trump criticized the Republican Party for its loss and warned that the party would continue to lose presidential elections if it comes across as meanspirited and unwelcoming toward people of color.
He went on to compliment the Democrats on immigration  not on their policies, but on their tone.
They didnt have a policy, he said, but what they did have going for them is that they were not meanspirited about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

What they were is they were kind, he added.
Mr. Trumps tone three years later was much less kind than the party line in 2012.
He even criticized a Republican primary opponent, Jeb Bush, for saying that illegal border crossings were motivated by an act of love and commitment to family.
Now, hes testing the deep affection of his base once again by seemingly going back to a kinder approach on immigration.
The language of the bill provides them with a nearly unlimited range of policy options to use the money in the service of providing health care access, and no templates or fallback options.
Republican governors from 15 states have endorsed the bill, saying that adequately funded, flexible block grants to the states are the last, best hope to finally repeal and replace Obamacare.
States could use the money in any number of ways: state insurance programs, subsidies for private insurance, direct payments to health providers, high-risk pools or more.
They would be free to preserve the central consumer protections created by Obamacare, or to decide to allow insurers to limit benefits or charge higher prices to sicker customers than healthier ones.
The challenges would fall into two major categories.
First, states would need to make political choices about what they want their system to look like.
Next, they would need to submit applications, hire contractors and build new systems to run them.
Neither would be easy.
The bill would make health care an active, high-stakes political debate in all 50 states.
Under Obamacare, states had limited, rather binary policy choices, and even those were hard for state governments to make quickly.
States had to decide whether to run their own insurance marketplaces or to let the federal government do it for them.
After a Supreme Court ruling in 2012, they had a choice about whether to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more childless adults, or to stick with their prior programs.
Many states took longer than two years to answer even those comparatively simple questions.
Photo

Consider, for example, a state like Virginia, where a Democrat sits in the governors office but Republicans run the legislature.
Political consensus might prove elusive.
Fights could erupt even among more politically homogeneous states that support Obamacare.
One house of the California legislature recently voted to adopt a single-payer health care system.
The flexibility presented by the bill might open a heated debate about whether to adopt such an approach  or build something more like the Affordable Care Act, which is currently working well there.
There are also the challenges of state legislative calendars: Texas legislature, for example, is not scheduled to convene until 2019.
In some ways, a clean slate is much more complicated than very discrete decisions, said Larry Levitt, an executive vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonpartisan health research group.
Mr. Levitt described the challenges facing states under this legislation as formidable.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In contrast with an earlier bill from Mr. Cassidy, which offered a default option for uncertain states, there is no backup plan in the bill.
The Obamacare coverage programs would disappear everywhere in 2020, and any state unable to make a plan and submit an application would be ineligible for the new grant funding.
If a state succeeds in obtaining the funding but doesnt have a functioning new system on Jan. 1, 2020, consumers and markets would be thrown into chaos.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the bills block grant formula, Mississippi would be one of the biggest winners, eligible for substantially more health care money than it gets now.
Still, Mike Chaney, the states insurance commissioner, said that he was wary about the change.
Which evil do you like better, the one you know or the one you dont know?
Mr. Chaney said.
There are better ways to do this.
Once states choose a policy approach, they would need to bring it to life.
If they adopt a government-run approach, in which people can enroll in a single public health plan, they will need to develop the parameters for that program and put it out to bid.
If they select something similar to Obamacare  some sort of insurance market with income-based subsidies  they will need technology systems that allow them to verify peoples eligibility and income, and link state assistance with their insurance purchases.
Most states have lengthy contracting processes, in which they must request proposals and review multiple bids before signing up vendors.
Those deals would need to be in place before any software building begins.
The Obama administration had nearly four years to develop and build its enrollment system, HealthCare.gov, which barely functioned at the outset.
Peter Lee, the executive director of the California marketplace, Covered California, which is considered one of the countrys most successful, said that his system was barely finished in time, and he had the ability to call up local technology C.E.O.s for advice.
Andy Slavitt, who joined the Obama administration in 2014 to help rebuild the ailing HealthCare.gov, and is strongly opposed to the Republican bill, said it would be close to impossible for most states to build meaningful systems for providing health insurance on such a timeline.
This is a fantasy document developed without the benefit of talking to people who have actually had to operationalize these things before, he said.
Passage of the bill would set off a state rush for help from the limited group of contractors who have built big systems.
Mike Leavitt, a Republican who was Secretary of Health and Human Services under George W. Bush, and a governor of Utah, now runs a consulting firm that helps states build and manage exchanges.
He said he supported the general idea of giving states more power.
He was optimistic that some states could adopt out-of-the-box systems within two years, but probably not all.
There are different levels of complexity involved in states, and theres different levels of capacity, and theres different levels of experience, he said.
Many experts I spoke with were confident that most states would find some way to get the federal money, given how big the stakes were.
They were less sure about whether states would be able to use it in a way that would provide health coverage quickly to the people currently served by Obamacare.
The metaphor I think about is its saying, Were going to continue having a freeway full of fast-moving cars, but were going to remove the lane line and the speed limits and say we hope things work out,  Mr. Lee said.
The bill is structured as a sort of slow-motion repeal of the health laws main coverage programs.
Though the bill establishes the new state block grant program for a decade, all of the programs money expires after 2026.
That makes it different from the Obamacare overhaul bill passed by the House and a previous bill considered by the Senate, which would have made modifications and cuts to those programs, but preserved them in perpetuity.
The expiration of the health laws programs alone would probably mean that about 23 million fewer Americans would have health coverage, if compared with current law, according to an estimate the Congressional Budget Office made in regard to a previous repeal bill.
In the meantime, analysts say, the individual insurance markets could face enormous changes.
The legislation rolls back popular consumer protections in Obamacare, leaving each state to decide what minimum benefits must be covered or if customers with pre-existing illnesses should be protected from higher prices.
Not every state would drop these provisions, but several might.
One of the few Obamacare requirements that would remain is to allow children to stay on their parents insurance policies until age 26.
The budget office has said it does not have time to analyze the full effects of the bill before the Senate hopes to consider it, though it will provide some overall estimates of its effects on the federal deficit.
While a floor vote is not certain yet, Republicans are racing against the clock.
They are considering the bill under special budget rules that allow them to pass it with a simple majority of votes in the Senate.
That opportunity expires when the fiscal year ends at the end of Sept. 30.
The legislation also does little to stabilize the individual market from now until when the states would have to administer new health programs in 2020.
Insurers are sharply raising their prices for 2018 because lawmakers have not committed to funding the so-called cost-sharing subsidies that help insurers reduce deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
The bill does not fix this problem.
The legislation also eliminates the tax penalty that people who refuse coverage face  the individual mandate  which could discourage insurance enrollment among healthier people, who are critical to making the program work.
Insurance companies, some of which are only reluctantly staying in the market, may think twice about whether they need to remain while the alternatives are being worked out.
This mix of policies during the two-year transition period is similar to that imagined in earlier Republican bills.
The budget office said that such an environment would cause insurance prices to spike by 20 percent and about 15 million fewer Americans to have health coverage in 2019.
The block-grant formula would affect who is covered, by shifting money to states with the greatest number of low-income residents and away from states that have tried to provide more of their middle-income citizens with insurance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
A recent analysis from the left-leaning Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that, by 2026, blue states with low numbers of uninsured residents, including New York and Massachusetts, would experience substantial reductions in federal funding.
Poorer states with high uninsured rates, like Texas and Mississippi, would see increases.
Many of the states that make out better financially could have obtained more Obamacare funding if they had chosen to expand their Medicaid programs to cover more low-income residents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The bills formula shifts around the current pot of money based on how many residents in each state are close to the poverty line, and also seeks to equalize payments, regardless of differences in the price of medical care in different regions.
It redistributes from higher income to lowest income, said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at Avalere Health.
It also redistributes among the states.
Like several earlier Republican health bills, this one would also change the structure of the 52-year-old Medicaid program, which even before Obamacares expansion to poor adults in many states covered tens of millions of vulnerable Americans, including poor children, older Americans in nursing homes, adults with disabilities, and many pregnant women.
The program currently pays for 49 percent of all births and 64 percent of all nursing home residents bills.
The Graham-Cassidy bill moves funding for the Medicaid expansion population into the state block grant.
It would also convert the rest of the program from an open-ended commitment of paying a share of those peoples medical bills to a capped allotment for each person every year, set to grow by a fixed amount.
Independent analysts have said that the change would cause substantial shifts in financial responsibility to states, ultimately leading to reductions in benefits or in the number of Americans covered by Medicaid over time.
Most Americans receive insurance through their employers, and they, too, would probably see changes under this bill.
The legislation would eliminate Obamacares penalties for employers that decline to offer their workers affordable coverage.
The changes to benefit rules in some states could, through a complicated interplay of law and regulation, allow insurers to impose annual or lifetime limits on coverage for some people covered under employer plans.
More than half of plans had such limits before they were barred by the Affordable Care Act.
With all these changes in the Cassidy-Graham bill, the states might have considerable difficulty coming up with plans of their own by 2020, when the current system of covering their residents under Medicaid and the health laws insurance market would end.
Youve only got two years to figure all of this out, said Robert Laszewski, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. You need a comprehensive plan to phase Obamacare out to something that replaces it.
But the bill faces substantial challenges, both political and procedural.
Here are three reasons the effort may not succeed  and one very important reason it might.
Photo

1) Rand Paul is a hard no, which makes the math difficult.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has been making a big point of how he dislikes this bill and wont vote for it.
He said so in a series of tweets on Monday.
Then he held a news conference, saying he was immovable.
Without his vote, Senate leadership can afford to lose only one more.
Senator John McCain of Arizona has offered mixed messages on the bill, and suggested on Monday that he was not yet endorsing the bill but might eventually.
So far, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have voted against every previous repeal attempt.
They even voted against opening debate on the process that permitted consideration of the Graham-Cassidy option.
If Mr. Paul holds firm, one of those two will need to change her mind.
Its possible that Mr. Paul will switch sides, but hes made it hard for himself to do so.
Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins have said nothing about their intentions.
But both raised objections about cuts to Medicaid in the earlier bill, and the new bill contains similar reductions.
The bills funding formula also appears to be unkind to both Alaska and Maine.
2) Theres a huge redistribution of money between states in the bills formula.
Losers include states with must-get senators.
The legislation sets up a complex formula for who gets what chunk of federal health care spending.
The formula is devised to equalize spending among states.
Currently, some states spend much more on Medicaid and the exchanges than others, either because they cover more people or because their systems are more generous or expensive.
That redistribution of money means that some states would come out as big winners, but others would absorb big reductions.
Mr. Cassidy has pointed out that more than a third of Affordable Care Act spending goes to four states: California, New York, Massachusetts and Maryland.
Thats roughly true.
These are populous states that expanded their Medicaid programs and tend to have costly health care systems.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But its not just big, blue states that would lose out.
According to estimates from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning think tank, Alaska, Arizona, Kentucky, Ohio and West Virginia, for example, would end up with less money by the end of a decade.
Those states all contain Republican senators who have expressed some unease with earlier versions of Obamacare repeal, and they might wish to keep the bill off the floor to avoid a tough vote that would pit their broad political commitments to repeal against the more parochial concerns of their constituents.
(Similar concerns might also crop up in the House, where a final vote would eventually need to be held.)
Over the long term, every state would lose money under the proposal.
The big block grants would expire altogether in 2027.
3) The timing is tight, and the bill still has a long way to go, leaving little room for error.
Republicans are trying to pass the bill using a special budget procedure called reconciliation.
That process allows them to pass the bill without needing any Democratic support, but it comes with a number of rules.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Under the reconciliation process, the bill requires an estimate of costs from the Congressional Budget Office.
The office indicated that it would offer an initial assessment by early next week, but could not provide detailed estimates about what would happen to insurance coverage or premiums for several weeks.
The score could discourage some senators from supporting the bill; an incomplete assessment might discourage others.
The bill will also need to be reviewed by the Senates parliamentarian to ensure that its provisions adhere to rules for the budget process.
Some provisions, including restrictions on funding for abortion providers and the new option of work requirements for Medicaid beneficiaries, could run afoul of the rules and be scrubbed out in the Byrd Bath.
Any funding formula changes made to the bill to please reluctant senators could slow things down.
The parliamentarian has said that the Senate process needs to be wrapped up by the end of the month.
That means that the bill needs a score, a Byrd Bath rules review and a vote in the Senate by the end of Saturday, Sept. 30.
Then the legislation would need to go back to the House, where, after midnight of that day, it could not be changed again, only voted up or down.
1) But Obamacare repeal is a core promise for Republicans.
Republicans have been running on a promise to repeal Obamacare since 2010, and this bill appears to be their last chance to achieve that goal in the foreseeable future.
Though they could initiate a new budget process to try again with health care, the president and congressional leadership want to use the process instead to pass tax reform.
Many members of Congress (and their staffs) are weary of the recent health care fight, which has been bruising and has yielded little political upside.
But even for lawmakers with doubts about this particular piece of legislation, the prospect of a win on an issue dear to their base  not to mention getting President Trump to stop jeering that they are wasting time and couldnt get it done  could be a powerful motivating force.
To better understand one of the most heated American policy debates, we conducted a small tournament to explore the idea of what makes a great health care system, and which nation might do it best.
A panel of judges chose between Germany, Switzerland, France, Britain, Canada, Australia, the United States and Singapore.
We hope that readers will consider this to be merely the beginning of a discussion, not the end.
In fact, we look forward to writing articles in which we answer reader questions and ask other experts with different views to weigh in.
Wed like to hear from you.
Have you experienced a health care system outside the United States?
Tell us its best or worst feature.
And what advice would you give Americans?
Photo

The Bernie Sanders Medicare for All plan promises rapid, sweeping change to the American health care system, with the elimination of all private insurance and the creation of a costly new government insurance program that will cover everyone and nearly every medical service.
But deep in its back pages is a more modest fallback plan.
The bill, introduced this week, has attracted the endorsement of 15 Democratic senators, including several of the partys most ambitious liberals.
But many more Democrats this week said theyd like to pursue more limited steps to expand health insurance coverage and the governments role in the system.
It turns out that the Sanders bill also has provisions along those lines.
Taken together, the bill encapsulates much of the coming Democratic debate about the direction of health care.
In the statements of the bills co-sponsors, one can detect an openness to less transformational approaches to health reform.
This bill is aspirational, and Im hopeful that it can serve as a starting point for where we need to go as a country, Senator Al Franken of Minnesota wrote in a Facebook post.
He described the bill as a marker and one way to achieve universal coverage.
Parts of the Sanders bill help establish a road map for what some other strategies might look like.
The provisions are tucked into Title X of the bill and describe the four-year transition between current policy and the Sanders bills goal of a Medicare-for-all system.
During that interim, some younger Americans would be able to buy access to the traditional Medicare program, which is now mainly for those 65 and up.
The provisions would also establish an option for Americans to buy access to a Medicare-like government plan that would be sold on the Obamacare exchanges.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Medicare buy-in section comes from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, who has introduced the provision as a stand-alone bill.
Notably, that 13-percentage-point advantage is biased by the fact that people more inclined to like Mr. Trump  older, white, heterosexual Christian men  happen to be overrepresented in manufacturing jobs.
The Trump manufacturing advantage shrinks to just three percentage points after taking into account demographic factors (race, age, gender, sexuality, religion and educational attainment) and becomes entirely insignificant after including attitudes about racism.
Trump voters are far more likely to disagree with statements like I am angry that racism exists and White people in the U.S. have certain advantages because of the color of their skin.
Manufacturing sector exposure is among the least important factors in predicting Trump support.
Trumps Small Edge With Manufacturing Workers After taking into account demographic variables, geographic variables and attitudes about race, much of the difference between manufacturing workers and those in other sectors disappears.
No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2 No control variables Demographic controls +neighborhood racial composition +attitudes about race +13.2 pts.
+4.0 +2.9 +1.2

In fact, Gallup survey data from August shows that American adults who approve of the way Mr. Trump is handling the presidency are actually less worried than other Americans about how trade competition will affect their job.
Just 6 percent of employed adults who approve of Mr. Trump say they are worried about their job going overseas, compared with 11 percent who disapprove.
Nor is technology a big concern.
Only 9 percent of Trump supporters are worried that their job will become obsolete as a result of technology compared with 15 percent of those who dont approve of the president.
Likewise, exposure to trade competition played no apparent role in persuading Obama voters to switch to Mr. Trump.
People who voted for President Obama in 2012 accounted for about 12 percent of all Trump voters, but again, these voters were not disproportionately involved in the manufacturing sector, either nationally or in swing states.
Around 8.7 percent of Trump voters who also voted for Mr. Obama in 2012 work in manufacturing, compared with 9.5 percent of Trump voters who voted for Mitt Romney.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exposure to trade is even less important for far-right voters in Europe than it is for Trump voters.
Using data from the European Social Survey, I find that working in manufacturing raises the probability of voting for a far-right party in the most recent election by less than one percentage point, using no demographic control variables.
Adding the same controls as above  religion, race, age, education, gender  eliminates even that small effect.
As in the United States, European far-right voters were far more likely to express concerns about immigration and race, saying, for example, that they are discriminated against, or that being white should be an important factor in determining whether foreigners are allowed to migrate.
By contrast, voters reporting positive interactions with people from other races were much less likely to be far-right voters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

None of this is to say that economics is unimportant to nationalist voting.
Both Trump voters and European far-right voters are distinguished by their strong dissatisfaction with the present state of the national economy, even controlling for demographic factors and attitudes on race and immigration.
Likewise, both groups are more likely to report that their family income situation is either difficult (for European far-right voters) or has gotten worse in the last four years (for Trump voters), even though family income is no lower for either group of voters.
In fact, its significantly higher for the average Trump voter.
This is consistent with previous Gallup research showing that Trump supporters seem to need a much larger financial cushion than those who view him unfavorably in order to feel good about their finances, perhaps because of their fears over the future of the country.
Trumps Advantage With People Who Said the Economy Was Getting Worse Voters who said the national economy had gotten worse or much worse over the past year were much more likely to vote for Mr. Trump, even after adjusting for demographic and other variables.
No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26 No control variables Demographic controls + neighborhood racial composition + attitudes about race +53 pts.
+44 +43 +26

Even if nationalist voters are not direct victims of trade, many might still oppose it out of a belief  however mistaken  that cooperation with foreigners must come at the expense of their fellow citizens.
While this view has historically been advanced by anticapitalist academics, it has seen new life among white nationalists on the right.
Voters on the far right and left have many valid grievances about the failure of conventional parties to create a fair, vibrant economy.
I have written a report published by Gallup and the U.S. Council on Competitiveness that elite, domestically focused business interests have set up barriers to competition, driving up their own incomes and the prices paid by consumers and taxpayers.
The anti-trade story may be diverting attention from those and other economic problems that seem to have helped nationalist candidates gain support from people who might not otherwise gravitate toward chauvinistic views.
That doesnt mean they have the same party loyalty of older left-of-center generations.
Theyre more likely to register as independent.
The young were nearly three times as likely as voters over 30 to vote for a third-party candidate last November.
About one in 10 voted for the Green Party candidate, Jill Stein, or the Libertarian candidate, Gary Johnson, or another candidate or write-in option.
This could be a reflection of the fact that many young Americans had their first glimpse of national politics during the hotly contested ideological battle between Bernie Sanders and Mrs. Clinton in the 2016 Democratic primary election.
Young millennials  and Im one of them  have experienced Democratic Party infighting practically since their political life began.
The infighting has continued in recent months: Should Democrats allow anti-abortion candidates?
Is single-payer insurance the one true path forward for health care?
Should the party make its main priority courting working-class whites?
As important as it would be for Democrats to unite and to keep left-of-center voters from straying, it would be even more helpful to win Republican converts.
A recent report from Pew Research Center found that 23 percent of young Americans who identified as Republican or independent-leaning-Republican switched to identifying as Democrat or independent-leaning-Democrat from 2015 to 2017.
The same report estimated that just 9 percent of young Democrats or those who lean Democratic switched to the G.O.P.
My analysis of survey data from the 2010-2014 C.C.E.S.
panel survey finds that these recent levels of Republican-to-Democrat switching are around 11 percentage points higher than past levels.
The 2016 C.C.E.S.
data corroborates this story, showing that about 75 percent of young Republicans voted for Donald J. Trump  about 20 points lower than the level of Republican voters older than 30.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That all sounds promising for Democrats.
But you might have noticed something in November 2016: This trend wasnt enough to produce a victory for Mrs. Clinton.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The turnout among those 18 to 29 was just 43 percent in 2016, compared with 60 percent for the entire electorate.
And in recent midterm elections, they have voted at rates no higher than 21 percent, which is less than the 36 percent overall average.
If those turnout patterns hold true in the 2018 midterms, young millennials will cast a measly 10 percent of total ballots.
So even if the Democrats do add 25 percent of young Republicans to their ranks, it will amount only to roughly 3 percent of the electorate in 2018.
What may be more important than the level at which young Republicans are switching parties are their reasons for doing so.
The Pew Research Center report found that 84 percent of the Republicans-turned-Democrats (regardless of age) disapproved of President Trump.
Fifty-four percent strongly disapproved.
A recent poll conducted by Gallup found approval of Mr. Trump among millennials to be near 23 percent.
This would equate to a decline of 10 percentage points since Inauguration Day, slightly outpacing the nine-point decline among all Americans.
Not only is the president an unpopular figure with young Americans, but he has been also been growing more unpopular over time.
Could President Trump be turning away the young in such a way that it could cause the Republican Party long-lasting harm?
Millennials tend to have more fluid partisanship, maybe because they havent cemented political attachments yet.
But theres evidence that your early political years are your most formative: Once you settle on a party, you tend to stick with it.
Another hope for Democrats is that the young have been activated by the Trump presidency, and there is some evidence of this.
They could match the rise in turnout in the highly publicized special election in Georgias Sixth Congressional District in the spring.
Voters 18 to 29 represented 10.6 percent of the electorate in that contest, up from 6 percent in the 2014 midterms.
(The Democrat, Jon Ossoff, still lost.)
Photo

Photo

Across the Atlantic, too, there are clues that young people are more politically active, after being stunned by the Brexit vote.
Sixty-four percent of voters 18 to 24 turned out in the 2017 British elections, an increase of 16 percentage points since the most recent contest in 2015.
Whats more, that age group supported the leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, a socialist, by 20 points more than it did in 2015.
But Democrats still shouldnt count on the young to rescue them in 2018 or 2020.
The 2020 election is supposed to be the first presidential race in which millennials outnumber baby boomers.
The 2016 turnout numbers, however, offer a stark reminder: Boomers, who lean Republican, turned out to vote at a rate 23 percentage points higher than that of millennials.
And in the 2014 midterms, they outnumbered the millennial electorate by a factor of three.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Unless that changes, boomers, though they may be outnumbered by millennials, may continue to decide their future.
Mr. Sanders says that the transition to the Medicare program would achieve several goals: It would ensure universal coverage, it would improve the affordability of health care for many Americans and it would save the country money.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Whether it can achieve that third goal depends a great deal on how the new Medicare-for-all system would be managed, and the Sanders plan leaves a lot of those details unclear for now.
Covering everyone would not, by itself, make the health care system in the United States as inexpensive as those of other nations with universal health care systems.
That sort of cost control would require its own set of policies and difficult choices.
In his news conference introducing the bill on Wednesday, Mr. Sanders focused his ire on insurance and drug companies, two profitable sectors of the health care system.
But insurance and drug company profits dont make up the bulk of Americas health care spending.
Single-payer advocates argue that the simplicity of a single, government payer would reduce paperwork and office staff, and that is almost certainly true.
But most spending in the health care system is on medical care from doctors and hospitals  and squeezing savings there may be harder.
To get savings from those areas might require reducing doctors pay or hospitals numbers of medical professionals.
It could require eliminating some medical treatments that are currently offered.
Even cutting spending on pharmaceuticals would have ripple effects, potentially limiting access to new or expensive treatments, or reducing investment in new technologies.
The bill specifies that Medicare would be run with an annual budget, leaving government officials to decide how to make the countrys medical spending conform to such totals every year.
It also says that the government should evaluate the effectiveness of different medical treatments.
Such a system has precedent: Several countries, including Canada and Britain, establish health care budgets that must be met and assess the value of medical services to determine what should be covered.
But such budgets and limits have been politically toxic in the United States, where politicians have been reluctant to say that the government should restrict care.
The Affordable Care Act established a theoretical limit on spending per Medicare beneficiary, establishing a board that would reduce costs if a cap were met.
But that board, assailed as a death panel, has never been called upon to make such choices, for no members have ever been nominated to it.
Mr. Sanders sells the bill as a broad expansion of care, by ensuring that all Americans have similar, broad benefits and little financial exposure to medical bills.
At Wednesdays event, he stood flanked by several prominent Democratic co-sponsors and medical providers who offered testimonials about how a Medicare-for-all plan would improve access to needed health care.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The plan increases the generosity of Medicare substantially.
It adds coverage for dentistry, optometry and audiology care, not part of the traditional program.
It also eliminates premiums, deductibles and most co-payments for medical care, which are significant costs for many people.
The size of the Medicare budget is also unspecified.
In part, thats because the Sanders bill does not establish a funding mechanism for its planned overhauls.
In a separate white paper, Mr. Sanderss office spells out some possible revenue sources, including increases to payroll taxes, and to high-end income taxes and some corporate taxes.
But those funding streams, politically risky in their own right, would need to be debated and measured before the realistic scale of the Medicare-for-all budget would be clear.
This different Medicare would face the push and pull of expanded reach and fixed means: one that would tend to increase the cost to the government for care, and one devised to reduce it.
Just what sort of Medicare program results would depend on the government that runs it.
