Following a car accident in 2007, McGowan said she had some corrective surgery to heal a cut from eyeglasses under her eye.
But some say she had additional procedures on her cheeks and nose.
Looking at her before (left) and after pictures.
Mysterious.
Although earlier reports indicate that a third Sex and the City movie is off the table, one star isnt losing her hope.
Actress Kristin Davis, who played Charlotte York, recently spoke publicly where she encouraged fans not to lose hope as the final word on a third movie hasnt necessarily been written.
Speaking at the 2017 Princess Grace Awards Gala, which she hosted, the star addressed the recently scrapped movie project.
Im just grateful.
I know my co-stars are grateful as well that we have the fan support, that we have each other, that we love each other, she told E!
News.
We still maybe well figure something to do, I dont know, it would be great.
The star went on to thank the fans for support, stopping short of saying their interest could spark another film.
As previously reported, the ladies of Sex and the City took to social media in September to announce that the movie was not going to be going into production, which was the original plan.
I am sad and disappointed that we wont be able to bring you all the final chapter of SATC (Sex and the City).
Michael Patrick King wrote a beautiful script that honored our characters and the entire history of the show, Davis wrote on Facebook at the time.
I havent quite gotten my mind around the fact that Charlotte will not continue on..
But the wonderful part of what we do is that the show and movies will live on.
So from the bottom of my heart, I am grateful for the experience of being part of Sex and the City.
And to the fans - know that we love you back, forever.
It was rumored that one of the key hangups stopping the movie from production was Kim Cattrall, who played Samantha Jones in the series, not wanting to do a third movie.
She took to Twitter soon after to reveal that she was off-board with a third film as early as 2016.
The 61-year-old Cattrall later appeared on Piers Morgans Life Stories where she explained that the series was a large factor in her decision not to have children.
But I thought to myself, Wow, I have 19-hour days on this series, Cattrall said.
"I have weekends where I finish at Saturday morning.
My Monday morning would start at 4:45 a.m. and go to one or two in the morning.
How could I possibly continue to do that, especially in my early 40s?
Nicki Minaj went on an impassioned Twitter rant on Wednesday to call out the pervasive sexism problem she sees in hip-hop.
The star claims that she has to work twice as hard to be taken seriously simply because shes a woman.
As The Hollywood Reporter notes, things kicked off when rapper Russ posted a clip from a Rap Radar interview where he called for more in the industry to respect Minaj, arguing that her career has influenced a great many female performers.
Minaj caught wind of the tweet and thanked Russ before launching into her own rant on the matter.
In any field, women must work TWICE as hard to even get HALF the respect her male counterparts get.
When does this stop?
she said.
The greats collaborated w/Drake, Kendrick & Jcole b/c theyre dope MCs.
THey collabd w/nicki cuz someone pulled a gun to their heads The star went on to say that men in the hip-hop game dont have to deal with the same issues in order to be taken seriously and that she still struggles after ten years in the industry.
Things reached a climax when she dug up a tweet from Kendrick Lamar from 7 years ago in which he mentioned that more people hate Minaj than women.
This is so telling.
And scary.
Id have to wear some baggy pants n timbs for men to openly give props, she said in the caption.
Minaj Twitter rant comes on the heels of a discussion about sexism and systemic harassment that actresses in Hollywood face following an expose into the behavior of now-disgraced mogul Harvey Weinstein.
It seems the star wants to use this opportunity to shine a light on the fact that this issue extends to hip-hop as well.
Disgraced film mogul Harvey Weinstein sued his former company on Thursday, seeking access to emails, his personnel file and other records he contends may exonerate him from multiple allegations of sexual harassment and assault.
Weinstein's lawsuit filed Thursday in Delaware seeks access to the records, which Weinstein's lawyers argue are key to the Oscar-winner's defense from the avalanche of harassment claims made against him since an Oct. 5 report by The New York Times.
Weinstein was fired from The Weinstein Co. three days later.
His lawsuit makes clear that if he is able to obtain the records, he may use them to pursue a wrongful termination case or other legal actions against the company.
The lawsuit notes the numerous legal troubles facing Weinstein and his former company, including criminal investigations, a civil lawsuit that alleges The Weinstein Co. knew of decades of harassment allegations lodged against the producer and a civil rights investigation launched by the New York attorney general.
"Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account which is the primary, if not only, account he used during the term of his employment by the company will contain information exonerating him, and therefore the company, from claims that may be asserted against him or the company.
Further, Mr. Weinstein is in a unique position to offer insight, and further explain and contextualize his emails."
Weinstein is asking a judge to expedite a ruling on his case.
A representative for The Weinstein Co. did not immediately respond to an email message seeking comment.
The lawsuit came hours after actress Ashley Judd described on-camera Weinstein's sexual advances toward her, which she said she escaped by making a deal.
She was a rising young actress two decades ago who had arrived at the hotel suite of this powerful film mogul for what she thought would be a business meeting.
It wasn't, she said in her first on-camera recounting of the incident, which aired Thursday on "Good Morning America."
Judd's account of the incident three weeks ago in The New York Times was a key factor in Weinstein's downfall, and opened the door to an avalanche of harassment allegations against Weinstein and others and a broader cultural discussion of how women are treated in the workplace and beyond.
NBC suspended Mark Halperin on Thursday after CNN reported on the claims of five women who said the political journalist harassed them while he was an ABC News executive.
Halperin, who co-authored the best-seller "Game Change," apologized Wednesday for what he called inappropriate behavior.
And former Fox News host and best-selling author Bill O'Reilly, who was forced out of the network in April after sexual harassment allegations, saw his literary agency cut ties with him.
Fallout continues to Weinstein and the film production company he co-founded.
The Lexus luxury vehicle brand said Thursday it was ending its partnership with The Weinstein Co., which included sponsorship and product placement in company's "Project Runway" television show.
Weinstein has been fired from the company he co-founded with his brother and is now facing criminal investigations in London, New York and Los Angeles.
ABC is spreading its interview with Judd throughout its programming Thursday, with segments expected to air during its nightly newscast and its "Nightline" late-night show.
In the "GMA" interview, Judd said the business meeting in Weinstein's hotel room turned into a negotiation not about work, but about things the producer wanted the actress to do to him.
Weinstein first offered to give her a massage, then, when she demurred, asked her to give him one, she said.
"I fought with this volley of no's," she said.
Then she made a "deal."
She said she agreed to submit to him, but only "when I win an Oscar in one of your movies OK?"
"When you get NOMINATED," Weinstein counter-offered.
"And I said, 'No.
When I WIN an Oscar.'
And then I just fled."
Judd said she remains of two minds about how she handled the shocking situation.
"Am I proud of that?
.
The part that shames myself says, 'No.'
The part of me that understands the way shame works says, 'That was absolutely brilliant.
Good job, kid, you got out of there.
Well done!'"
Judd said a couple of years after the hotel encounter she was seated across from Weinstein at a dinner.
She said he brought up "that little agreement we made," and claimed he was "looking around for the material."
Then he looked at her and said, "You know, Ashley, I'm going to let you out of that little agreement that we made."
Judd said by then "I had come into my own, I had come into my power, I had found my voice.
And I said, 'You do that, Harvey.
You DO that.'
"And he has spat my name at me ever since."
Alec Baldwin lashed out against a writer on Twitter after she wrote a story that was critical of his relationship with disgraced Hollywood director James Toback.
The star found his ire raised by an article in Decider that examines the documentary he made with Toback in 2013 in a post-Weinstein-awareness world.
The film, Seduced and Abandoned depicts the duo as they try to secure funding and pitch a movie at the Cannes Film Festival.
The writer, Kayla Cobb, explains that the film's boys will be boys tone does not hold up well knowing that Toback was, allegedly, harassing women and using his status as a director to lure them into uncomfortable situations.
She even goes as far as to call it repulsive.
What Baldwin took issue with was the way she ended the article, noting that he has yet to come forward and make a statement on the issue of Tobacks harassment allegations, noting that he has a role in the directors recent film The Private Life of a Modern Woman.
Rewatching the documentary also turns that judgmental spotlight on Alec Baldwin.
After the allegations of Toback surfaced, many celebrities were quick to condemn the director, but Baldwin has remained silent, she wrote.
This is especially remarkable as Baldwin is typically quick to voice his opinions about social justice-related controversies either through Twitter or on his podcast.
Baldwin responded with a tweet that directly called out Cobb.
I cheered when Gawker lost its case to Hulk.
So, of course The Decider wants to tar me w the Toback brush.
Kayla Cobb, ur a dreadful writer.
Cobb responded to the remarks by asking Baldwin if hes planning to make a statement.
Ty.
The article only highlighted you havent made a statement about Toback.
If youd like to give one pls email me.
I would send you an email, on any subject, if you werent such a dishonest, awful writer, Baldwin responded.
Is that a No comment on Toback?
Why dont you let prosecutors and real journalists investigate such cases and you stick to divorces and plastic surgery.
In a separate tweet, Cobb revealed that Baldwin blocked her on Twitter before sending his last message.
Its worth noting that, despite what Baldwin seems to be implying, there is no relation between Decider and Gawker, which recently lost a lawsuit brought against it from former pro-wrestler Hulk Hogan.
Baldwin has still not released an official comment about his relationship with James Toback.
Sophia Loren didnt seem impress when Jayne Mansfield crashed her party and nearly spilled out of her dress in front of eager photographers.
The snapshot was taken back in 1957, but it has since become one of the most iconic photos in Hollywood history.
Its currently being featured in a new book from People Magazine titled 100 Best Celebrity Photos.
CELEB PHOTOGRAPHER SPILLS OLD HOLLYWOOD SECRETS When we decided to put together a book of the 100 best celebrity photos, honestly, the first photo that came to mind was this one, said editor-in-chief Jess Cagle Thursday.
A post shared by Martina.spadoni (@marti.spado) on Oct 25, 2017 at 1:40pm PDT Cagle explained that back in 1957, the Italian bombshell had signed a deal with Paramount and had come to California, and Paramount threw a big welcome party for her in Beverly Hills and Jayne Mansfield was on the guest list.
Loren, who was supposed to be the star of the glamorous bash, wasnt expecting Mansfield to steal the spotlight.
The 83-year-old recalled that fateful evening to Entertainment Weekly in 2014.
All of cinema was there, it was incredible, she recalled.
And then comes in Jayne Mansfield, the last one to come.
For me, that was then it got amazing.
A post shared by Jayne Mansfield (@jaynemansfielddaily) on Jul 31, 2017 at 7:34pm PDT Thats when their encounter took an unexpected turn.
She came right for my table, said Loren.
She knew everyone was watching.
She sat down.
And now, she was barely Listen.
Look at the picture.
Where are my eyes?
Im staring at her nipples because I am afraid they are about to come onto my plate.
In my face you can see the fear.
Im so frightened that everything in her dress is going to blow BOOM!
and spill all over the table.
Loren admitted that fans still give her the infamous photo for an autograph.
However, she refuses for a very different reason.
A post shared by SOFIA VILLANI SCICOLONE (@sophialorendaily) on Aug 30, 2015 at 11:46am PDT [And] I never do, said Loren.
I dont want to have anything to do with that.
And also out of respect for Jane Mansfield because shes not with us anymore.
Mansfield died in 1967 from a car crash when she was 34.
Her daughter, Mariska Hargitay, would go on to pursue acting and star in Law & Order: Special Victims Unit.
Loren married Italian film producer Carlo Ponti in 1957.
They stayed together until his death in 2007.
A post shared by Magic of Oldies (@themagicoftheold) on Aug 24, 2017 at 9:58am PDT He was my husband, my father, my man, my home, she said.
For him the cinema was like life just a big adventure.
"And the award goes to..." Some of the biggest names in music are expected to attend the 45th Annual American Music Awards in November.
Read on for more information about the award show, which will take place at the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, Calif. How can I watch the American Music Awards?
The show will air on Sunday, Nov. 19 at 8 p.m.
ET on ABC.
The AMAs website describes the event as "the world's largest fan-voted awards show."
"American Music Awards nominees are based on key fan interactions as reflected in Billboard Magazine and on Billboard.com, including album and digital song sales, radio airplay, streaming, social activity and touring," the AMA says.
Who has the most nominations?
Bruno Mars.
The "That's What I Like" singer is up for eight awards: Artist of the Year, Video of the Year, Favorite Male Artist - Pop/Rock, Favorite Album - Pop/Rock, Favorite Male Artist - Soul/R&B, Favorite Album - Soul/R&B, Favorite Song - Soul/R&B and Favorite Artist - Adult Contemporary.
Fans can vote for the nominees they want to win in several ways, including by going to VoteAMAs.com.
Who will receive the AMA Lifetime Achievement award?
Legendary R&B and soul singer and actress Diana Ross.
The distinction "is only given to artists who have made truly exceptional contributions to the music industry," the AMA said in a press release announcing the award.
Who will be performing at the show?
Ross and Selena Gomez - who will perform her song "Wolves" - are currently the only confirmed musicians set to perform.
Other performances are expected to be announced prior to showtime.
Who is nominated for Artist of the Year?
The Chainsmokers, Drake, Kendrick Lamar, Bruno Mars and Ed Sheeran are all up for the award.
Who are the New Artist of the Year nominees?
James Arthur, Niall Horan, Post Malone, Julia Michaels and Rae Sremmurd have been nominated.
Who is up for Video of the Year?
Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee ("Despacito"), Bruno Mars ("That's What I Like") and Ed Sheeran ("Shape of You").
Who is nominated for Collaboration of the Year?
The Chainsmokers featuring Halsey ("Closer"), Luis Fonsi and Daddy Yankee featuring Justin Bieber ("Despacito"), DJ Khaled featuring Justin Bieber, Quavo, Chance the Rapper and Lil Wayne ("I'm the One"), Maroon 5 featuring Kendrick Lamar ("Don't Wanna Know") and The Weeknd featuring Daft Punk ("Starboy").
Following the news that NBC and MSNBC analyst Mark Halperin will be stepping away from both networks amid sexual assault allegations, a tweet has been circulating that shows Halperin slammed Donald Trump a year ago for the infamous "Access Hollywood" leaked audio.
In October 2016, Halperin took to Twitter to comment on the hot story at the time, the recording, originally from 2005, that featured then-presidential candidate Trump speaking about women in a lewd manner.
Halperin shared his reaction.
When people say some new Trump tape could have material that is WORSE than the @accesshollywood video, what exactly could be WORSE?!?
he wrote.
But as women have come forward now to accuse Halperin of harassment, social media users were quick to point out the hypocrisy of his previous comment.
Halperin has been accused of allegedly grabbing a woman's breasts without consent and pressing his clothed, erect penis against three of his co-workers.
He has since admitted that he pursued relationships with co-workers, some of whom were his juniors.
He has yet to directly address the specific accusations.
Mark Halperin, the NBC and MSNBC analyst who co-authored the bestselling 2008 election postmortem "Game Change," is leaving both networks after five women accused him of sexual harassment in a CNN report published Wednesday.
"We find the story and the allegations very troubling.
Mark Halperin is leaving his role as a contributor until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood," MSNBC told Fox News in a statement.
HBO also cut ties with Halperin who was set to work with the network on a project tied to his untitled book about the 2016 presidential election.
The powerful journalist's alleged behavior occured while he was at ABC News, according to CNN, which said the five women's complaints were corroborated by others who did not personally experience the harassment.
Halperin allegedly grabbed a woman's breasts without consent and pressed his clothed, erect penis against three of his co-workers.
The "Morning Joe" regular denied those allegations, according to CNN, but did not specifically deny the women's accusations that he had propositioned them for sex.
Halperin admited to CNN Wednesday night that his conduct was inappropriate, and he said he would take time away from his role as a senior political analyst at NBC and MSNBC.
"During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me," Halperin told CNN.
"I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain.
For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize.
Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation."
Condemnation was swift across social media.
"The percentage of men who will leap to this jackass defense will be about .001," tweeted journalist Keith Olbermann, who formerly worked for MSNBC.
Fox News' Sasha Savitsky contributed to this report.
The actor (left), pictured with his son Redmond (right), has had a stressful few years.
In 2001, he battled leukemia, and in 2009, he lost long-time partner, Farrah Fawcett, to cancer.
The actor has also reportedly struggled with drugs, and in 2008, he was busted for drug possession.
All that stuff sure does take a toll.
For more pics of Ryan, go to x17online.com.
This hotel was built on top of our broken bones!
an animatronic pirate skeleton complained amid thunder and lightning.
Photo I tiptoed through upside-down rooms and kitchens with rumbling floors, past sinks running with blood and candles sliding along mantels, and declined housekeeping from an undead maid.
A bonus: After making it through the inn, we were invited to sit and watch, on jumbo screens, a video of our harrowing stay.
Horsemans Hollow (Ages 10 and up, Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.) Photo At 7 p.m. that same Saturday, the line for Horsemans Hollow was full, and devil horns ($3.95 at the gift shop) glowed red on many a head.
Ghosts in tricorn hats chased shrieking SUNY students.
A local market sold doughnuts and cider.
Inspired by The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, Historic Hudson Valley staged Horsemans Hollow on the grounds of Philipsburg Manor, converting the historical site into a colonial town gone mad.
Think fewer clowns, more yellow fever.
I followed a lantern-lit trail along the Pocantico River toward the old manor.
Signs along the path warned of the Headless Horseman, but mostly it was just nice to be out of the city.
Decapitations were, fittingly, all the rage in the town.
Lets see how you laugh without a windpipe, one lobbed-off head barked through planks of wood.
Welcome to my garden, a crone beckoned, and I proceeded cautiously, worried shed push a farm share.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a dark barn, ghosts in flowing, glowing sheers oscillated like tower fans.
A zombie nun stopped eating a dead soldiers entrails to scream at me, then the dead soldier popped up to scream as well.
Oh, God, I whimpered as I stepped into a foreboding temple.
Youre right, a satanic figure atop the throne said.
I am God.
Winding outdoor paths provided a moment to catch my breath before the next hazy tent or demons Airbnb.
I paused in the cemetery to let pass a woman who had been loudly telling her friend an unrelated childhood story since wed left the fortune tellers camp what is this, the Moth?
Pipe down!
Outside the schoolhouse, Ichabod Crane jumped out.
Hes real!
he cried, pointing.
Looming up ahead, in front of the manor, the Horseman sat ominously on a real horse.
No flash!
a handler snapped at the people in the crowd who had their phones out like Justin Bieber was on that horse and we were all in Montclair, N.J. Back at the entrance, the ghouls entertained the crowd with a Mad-Libbed shanty, incorporating someones oh-so-Hudson-River-Valley suggestion: 401(k).
Blood Manor (Ages 14 and up, Hudson Square, Manhattan) Photo At 11 p.m., the line for Blood Manor stretched down Varick Street.
Now in its 13th season, this Manhattan haunt caters to an older, clubgoing set no doughnuts, no cider.
Speakers blasted Cardi B while a stilted man carrying a scythe stalked the line and posed with people in front of a step-and-repeat backdrop.
Inside, it was loud and hot.
For 20 feverish minutes, throughout 18 different rooms, I fended off attacks from an ax-wielding contortionist, an undead stripper dancing across from, well, a dead stripper impaled on her pole, and a doctor who leapt across his operating table toward me, growling, Its just you and me, big guy.
Photo Glasses were provided for a maze lined with 3-D wallpaper, but for a pitch-dark maze, nothing just my own two hands reaching out, feeling around every turn.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Back on the street, friends recounted their escapes in excited clumps, while two young women hid from the stilted man under the M20 bus stop shelter.
This Is Real (Ages 18 and up, Red Hook, Brooklyn) Photo Ever wondered what youd do if you were kidnapped?
I sure havent.
From Psycho Clan, the team behind Nightmare New York, This Is Real simulates a group abduction in an isolated Red Hook warehouse.
Only eight people are admitted during each time slot, and everyone must sign a waiver beforehand.
Because most of the other times were sold out, I was given a 3 p.m. Sunday slot, a good option in case you and your aunt cant get into Hello, Dolly!
I stood outside the warehouse with my fellow abductees: a group of male friends and a guy whod driven two hours from Connecticut.
Threatening greeters circled us, murmuring, Introduce yourselves.
You will need each other.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Two of my biggest fears were already being engaged: a broken fourth wall and a bunch of straight guys depending on me for their survival.
Inside we were blindfolded, bound at the hands and led one by one into narrow cells.
I wriggled free of my bindings and raised my blindfold just in time to watch the stocking-capped killer spray a tied-up woman with a gas that made her woozy.
He ran down our row of cells, spraying us as well.
Youre pretty, he said to my neighbor, and, to me, Im attracted to you.
Photo Thank you, I nearly purred back.
He hauled the woman out, and we had to unlock our cells and scour the filthy, sparse room for ways to escape without getting caught.
Every few minutes we heard whistling, which meant the killer was approaching, and scrambled to hide.
I wasnt fast enough the first time.
Dead!
he shouted, pointing at me, as earsplitting horror movie strings swelled.
(Luckily, you get three lives.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The boys tore through our room while I tried to look busy.
Here, one of them said to me, Ill hoist you up to that electrical box, and see if you can find anything.
I longed for the killers whistle.
I survived the 70-minute ordeal, hiding in a refrigerator two rooms back, abandoned by the others.
The greeters, no longer threatening, took our photo for the Instagram page and recommended Botanica across the street for a drink.
Its not much cooler out there, a greeter said, pushing the warehouse doors open.
Oh, right out there.
I took a deep breath, steeled myself and stepped back in.
If You Go THE GRAVESEND INN, A HAUNTED HOTEL Through Oct. 31.
Voorhees Theater, 186 Jay Street, Brooklyn; nycitytechtheatreworks.org/gravesendinn.
HORSEMANS HOLLOW Through Oct. 31.
Philipsburg Manor, Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.; 914-366-6900, hudsonvalley.org/events/horsemans-hollow.
BLOOD MANOR Through Nov. 4.
163 Varick Street, Manhattan; 212-290-2825, bloodmanor.com.
THIS IS REAL Through December.
153 Coffey Street, Brooklyn; thisisreal.nyc.
The new season, arriving Friday, picks up just before Halloween 1984, and it spends its first half creating new versions of the first seasons conflicts.
Will is back in our world, but tormented by visions of the Upside Down, which, as the first-season epilogue suggested, still has a hold on him.
Eleven, who went missing at the end of Season 1, is still in hiding.
So Wills D&D buddies Mike (Finn Wolfhard), Lucas (Caleb McLaughlin) and Dustin (Gaten Matarazzo) find a new cool girl to be group-infatuated with, Max (Sadie Sink), and a new creepy-crawly menace to battle.
As a new extradimensional threat arises, Mr. Modines conspiracist scientist is replaced by Dr. Owens (a credibly straight-faced Paul Reiser).
The new seasons biggest strength is how it deals with Wills trauma.
Hes a frail kid whos survived a horrifying experience, and Noah Schnapp, in a bigger role, doesnt let you forget it.
His lingering feeling of being unsafe in his own body is the shows most effective chiller.
Ms. Ryders role gets a little smaller as the story expands, but her fear of losing her son again, this time before her eyes, is just as convincing.
For a breakout hit, Stranger Things 2 mostly refrains from milking fan-favorite elements.
The death of Barb (Shannon Purser), who became a viral obsession, has continued repercussions (which occupy the shows teen characters for much of the season), but theyre grounded in the story and characters.
And while keeping Eleven separate from the action may be frustrating, credit the Duffers for resisting the temptation to turn the series, on the strength of Ms. Browns transfixing stare, into The Eleven Show.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Stranger Things has a solid ensemble (Sean Astin joins it, as Joyces amiably clueless new boyfriend), but its real star is the world it creates.
Hawkins, Ind., feels genuine even though its made out of movies.
Parts of the new season recall Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Gremlins, The Empire Strikes Back and, naturally, the Reeses Pieces sequence in E.T.
For one unfortunate episode, the show becomes The Outsiders, complete with apocalypse-chic street-punk gang.
When the boys agree to go as the Ghostbusters for Halloween, theres even a sly comment on the racial dynamic of that movie and of 80s pop culture.
Lucas, who is African-American, refuses to go as Winston, the black Ghostbuster.
No one wants to be Winston!
he says.
He joined the team super late, hes not funny and hes not even a scientist.
The new season jokes about its own referentiality later, when Lucas fills Max in on the adventures of a year ago.
She, of course, thinks hes made up a story.
I really liked it, she says.
I just felt it was a little derivative in parts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That would be a fair critique of Stranger Things 2, which reprises many of Season 1s arcs and twists.
(The ingenious device of having Will speak from the Upside Down via Christmas lights is replaced by well, youll see.)
Im not sure Stranger Things creatively needed a second season, and for several episodes it seems like Stranger Things 2 isnt convinced of it either.
But its a still a good time, its nicely paced at nine episodes and it blends the suspense of 80s horror with the heart of an 80s teen romance.
It may be last years Halloween candy, repackaged.
That doesnt mean it cant still be sweet.
[ Read our refresher on where Stranger Things Season 1 left off. ]
The refurbished Domino home on Caffin Avenue at Marais Street, a vivid yellow structure with musical notations and dominoes as visual motifs, is still a must-see for tourists.
And on Wednesday afternoon, musicians and fans gathered outside it, leaving flowers and playing his songs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But on Frenchmen Street in the Marigny neighborhood, the music hadnt started yet.
The tuba player Matt Perrine was getting ready to offer his own tribute to Mr. Domino with Alex McMurray and the Tin Men at d.b.a., a live music venue.
Its odd to say this, but I feel like I did when Prince died, Mr. Perrine said.
When somebody who I respect that much dies I try to figure out how big a hole is left, he said.
This one looks like a chasm.
I cant even imagine what its going to be like to recover from his loss.
I had to break the news to my dad, said Don B. Bartholomew, a son of Mr. Dominos frequent collaborator, the bandleader Dave Bartholomew.
He took it terribly hard.
I called him about one oclock today.
I knew he would be getting calls and I didnt want him to hear it from the public.
But it was so difficult to tell him.
Mr. Bartholomew now runs the studio in the citys Seventh Ward where his father and Mr. Domino used to write and rehearse.
On Wednesday afternoon he was working out arrangements for his family to participate in memorial events.
Down the block some of his neighbors were out on the porch, playing Mr. Domino songs and drinking beer.
Inside the studios office, where the sleeves of Mr. Dominos rock n roll records from the 1950s were on display, Mr. Bartholomew remembered the man he thought of like an uncle.
Fats was in this studio when it was just a rehearsal space.
They would be in here jamming, writing songs, rehearsing for tours, Mr. Bartholomew said.
I remember going to the airport to meet him.
It was very impressive, all the gold rings, high fives, hed slip some bills to us kids.
Wed go to his house in the Ninth Ward, and he was always in his room cooking some food.
To me, he was the worlds greatest piano player.
I think of him as the real king of rock n roll.
Over at the Circle Bar overlooking Lee Circle, where a controversial statue of Robert E. Lee was removed earlier this year, the roots-rock band the Iguanas were preparing for their early evening performance, working out which of Mr. Dominos songs to include.
Every time I sing one of his songs, especially lately, I think about how he might not be around for much longer, said Joe Cabral, a band member.
Now that hes gone the songs take on a different meaning.
Photo Meanwhile, the Creole String Beans were rehearsing at Funky Nola studios for a Friday night gig and preparing some of Mr. Dominos material.
Im trying to stay happy in spite of the news, said Derek Huston, a saxophonist.
I saw Fats dozens of times.
I would go to Jazz Fest to see him and put my kids on my shoulders in the interests of raising them right.
See that man up there?
He was born in New Orleans just like you were.
The greatest things in life need to be celebrated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Out in the New Orleans suburb of Metairie, Mr. Dominos old friend, the drummer and vocalist Bobby Cure, was preparing a tribute to Mr. Domino at the Max.
Every other song will be Fats Domino tonight, he promised.
We always play Fats.
Blueberry Hill always gets the biggest response.
Everybody sings the first line, and they all get up and dance.
Mr.
Cure promoted Mr. Dominos performances in neighboring Chalmette, La., during the 1980s and his band often opened for Mr. Dominos.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
We played together at the closing of Pontchartrain Beach, he said, referring to a local amusement park that was shuttered in 1983.
Weve been friends ever since.
Jimmy Messa, a regular performer on Bourbon Street at the Tropical Isle, said he was stunned by the news of Mr. Dominos death.
I lived in Chalmette all my life and work in the French Quarter, he said.
Id pass by Fatss house in the Ninth Ward every day.
Mr. Messa said that one day a taxi driver told him: I know Mr. Fats.
He calls me and gives me his grocery list, and when I bring him his groceries he gives me a $50 tip.
Back at the Circle Bar, Mr. Cabral looked out the door as night fell over the city and pondered the obelisk where Lees statue used to be.
I would like to see a statue of Fats Domino atop it one day, he said.
Who wouldnt?
At a young age, when many of her peers were taken with televisions chipper singing characters, Ms. Womack gravitated to the country records by Jones, Ray Price and Dolly Parton that her radio D.J.
father brought home.
When I heard her sing, I might not have understood what she was singing about, but something, the quiver in her voice, the emotion in her voice, sucked me in, she said of Ms. Parton.
Photo Ms. Womack started recording during a decade ruled by megawatt divas, and shes fond of pointing out that she insisted on a debut single, Never Again, Again a rueful, waltz-time ballad with robust, bluegrass-style harmonies that conveyed her artistic inclinations.
Aubrie Sellers, Ms. Womacks daughter by a previous marriage who is carving out her own career as a recording artist, said that growing up, she came to understand her mother as a modern woman who sang traditional country music.
Ms. Womack credited her former label Decca Nashville with allowing her the leeway to go against the formats glossy grain, but also recognized her responsibility to give them something they could work with.
Her 2000 blockbuster album contained the billowy inspirational ballad I Hope You Dance and the country rock of Ashes by Now, along with Does My Ring Burn Your Finger, a searing, Appalachian-sounding number by the future Americana luminaries Buddy and Julie Miller.
I Hope You Dance became her biggest hit, a country chart topper that also crossed over to the pop Top 20, though its message-driven appeal was a departure.
I told Frank one time, I think they expect me to be Billy Graham now.
And I wasnt comfortable with that, Ms. Womack said.
Much of Ms. Womacks catalog has pushed against the perception of countrified emoting as a maudlin affair, but shes never been one to intellectualize her approach.
She gave a characteristically concise summary of her vision for The Lonely, the Lonesome & the Gone: Country music to me was always music that spoke to the common man, and in earlier times, people who were going through hard times and troubles, she said.
What is called country music today to me has gotten quite a bit far away from that, especially on the emotional end.
So I wanted to do that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Louder Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest in pop and jazz with reviews, interviews, podcasts and more from The New York Times music critics.
In the elegantly brooding title track, she laments, I dont know why no one sings/about drowning in pitchers and half-priced wings/and trying to wish back everything theyve lost.
Ms. Womack has called the new album country blues, but thats as much a tonal description as a stylistic one.
She spends 14 tracks embodying the most delicate and desperate extremes of melancholy, inscribing countrypolitan and torchy pop arrangements with sighing silences, and launching into anguished, note-bending runs during the roiling, down-home numbers.
The liberal use of reverb, particularly on the steel guitar and her voice, has a haunting effect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Im not the one that goes, Heres the mic we need to use, or Heres where we need to put it, but I know who to hire that will understand what Im going for, Ms. Womack said.
Mr. Liddell added, I think this particular time, we just did our best to let her sing and find some things and not worry so much about Glossin over things, Ms. Womack completed the thought.
Thats what the other music makers in her family are aiming for too, in their own ways.
An independent spirit, she said, is a big part of who we are.
As a producer, Mr. Liddell has contributed to the singularity of Miranda Lamberts albums.
While making Beginning of Things with Charlie Worsham, he captured un-self-conscious performances.
Mr. Worsham said that when he catches himself thinking he should record something with radio in mind, Im like, I cant do that and then go see Frank and feel good about myself.
As a publisher, Mr. Liddell has signed some of Nashvilles country-tweaking songwriters, including his stepdaughter, Ms.
Sellers.
She spent half a decade fleshing out a sound she termed garage country before releasing her first album, New City Blues, which Mr. Liddell produced, last year.
I took all the things that I loved and tried to create my own identity, she said, adding that shes careful to separate her career from her mothers.
Ms. Womacks youngest, Ms. Liddell, currently splits her time between writing and assisting in an East Nashville recording studio.
She envisions making her own albums, but only after shes found a sonic stamp.
If I just put on a personality, I wouldnt feel it and Id be worried that other people werent feeling it, she said.
After 20 years of releasing albums, Ms. Womack has her own unique position in the country landscape.
She has the name recognition and endorsement juice of a fairly recent hit maker, along with the motivation to pursue musical priorities that predate her commercial peak.
The business apparatus around her has grown more modest in scale, but her artistic aspirations are grander than ever.
And she doesnt feel the need to disavow her past accomplishments in order to own her present efforts.
I moved here years ago, and Frank did too, and we just got caught up in a few square blocks, Ms. Womack said.
You get out of there and you start realizing that things are much different than they seem when you just hang out right here in this scene all the time.
She added, Im lucky to have gotten to learn from both of those scenes, and be a part of both.
Photo Suburbicon, a jaundiced, hard-sell comedy, wants you to know that the American dream was always a crock.
This may not be news, even in the movie industry, which loves white-picket fences in principle but remains a gated community in fact.
Still, every so often a filmmaker restates the case for the prosecution.
The latest complainant is George Clooney, who in directing Suburbicon has turned back the clock to the 1950s for a story about the good old American days of prosperity and prejudice, of race hate and white people who are always just one clenched fist away from becoming a mob.
The title refers to the ticky-tacky Potemkin suburb where it all goes down.
You know the place: Its as American as apple pie and quiet desperation.
Its the post-World War II wasteland with the identical homes, lawns and faces that has been grist for critique and caricature, novels and movies, ever since suburbs were invented.
In Little Boxes, a 1960s lament about conformity, Pete Seeger warbles about that sprawling wasteland, where all the boys go into business and marry and raise a family.
That these little boxes look a lot like coffins gives his song the tenor of a dirge, one that Suburbicon delivers anew with cruel laughter, violent enthusiasm and acres of dark-wood paneling.
Matt Damon plays Gardner Lodge, some kind of executive who has his own office and secretary at work and a wife, Rose (Julianne Moore), and son, Nicky (a good, appealing Noah Jupe), at home.
It all looks neat and tidy, especially Suburbicon, a planned community dotted with houses as square as Gardners sack suits and yards that look as if theyd been landscaped using a compass and protractor.
There are a few midcentury modern flourishes, but the sheer, overriding, bland whiteness underscores that this entire world has been drawn along the antiseptic lines of a period sitcom like Father Knows Best rather than a riposte like Mad Men.
Video The story opens just as the Mayerses, Suburbicons first black family, move into the area, an event the neighborhood treats as a collective home invasion.
Women whisper and stare, men sputter and rage, and soon all their white faces have gone red.
Before long, unneighborly clusters begin gathering around the familys home, edging around the perimeter and transforming it into a kind of stage.
And then the fences go up, and the clusters develop into a pack.
The whispers morph into jeers, and the progressively, dangerously impatient crowd howls for the show to begin.
Any resemblance to the audience watching Suburbicon is as intentional as it is obvious.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Clooney, who wrote the movie with Grant Heslov reworking a script by Ethan and Joel Coen has embraced symmetry as his guiding principle.
Everything looks picture perfect in Suburbicon, and the story is so ordered that at first the movie seems to be a tale of two families, twinned peoples whose only sons dress alike and play catch in yards that face each other as if mirrored images.
That there arent any movie stars in the Mayers family, though, is an early sign that all isnt quite as balanced as it seems.
Karimah Westbrook has a few good moments as Mrs. Mayers, but Leith Burke, as Mr. Mayers, barely says a word.
Tony Espinosa has more to do as the couples son, Andy.
Advertisement 2017: The Biggest Year in Horror History We tracked horrors rise at the box office over the decades.
This year, led by It and Get Out, really has outpaced all others.
Image Pennywise (played by Bill Skarsgard) in "It," which has been a smash success at the box office.
Credit Brooke Palmer/Warner Bros.
This year, scary clowns, scary dolls and scary suburbanites have drawn audiences to the movies in droves.
Even with two months remaining, 2017 has already become the biggest box office year ever for horror.
Scary movies have collected $733 million in ticket sales, according to the website Box Office Mojo .
The runaway success of It (more than $300 million and counting) and Get Out ($175 million) led the way, but October is a golden month for horror and will surely add more to that tally.
Happy Death Day was No.
1 when it opened this month (on Friday the 13th), and a new entry in the hit Saw franchise, Jigsaw (due Oct. 27), should also raise the total.
How has horror fared at the box office in previous decades?
Going back to the 1970s, I used data from Box Office Mojo to track the genres rise as a moneymaking force, focusing on one key year from each decade.
Box Office Mojo breaks horror down into 10 subcategories on its site and its editor, Brad Brevet, has struggled with the question of what constitutes a horror movie.
He tried to bring some clarity with a new list.
When It came out I created an R-rated horror list on Mojo, he wrote in an email.
That, at least, felt representative of the horror genre.
We used the R-rated list as a reference point, but the highest-grossing year for each decade is based on figures collected from all the films the site considers horror.
Also, these numbers have not been adjusted for inflation (which would turn The Exorcist into a $983 million earner).
The 1970s Biggest Year: 1973, $232.9 million Image Linda Blair in "The Exorcist," with a box office take that dwarfed that of all other horror films in the '70s.
Credit Warner Bros.
In the early 1970s, horror broke into the mainstream in a big way, primarily with the astronomical success of The Exorcist in 1973, which alone topped the collective total of any box office year in the decade.
That movie aside, horror didnt make much of an impression that year.
And it was really films released later in the decade that would prove pivotal.
The popularity of Halloween in 1978 ($47 million) showed that slasher films could be a force.
And 1979 brought the blockbuster haunted house scares of The Amityville Horror ($86.4 million) and the influential space scares of Alien ($80.9 million).
That film captured a mass audience with a return of sorts to the creature features of classic horror.
The 1980s Biggest Year: 1987, $293.6 million Image Freddy (Robert Englund) was still going strong in "A Nightmare on Elm Street 3."
Credit New Line Cinema The slasher genre came into its own in the 80s, with the introduction of Jason in Friday the 13th (1980) and Freddy in A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984).
Those franchises produced buckets of blood and cash ($380.6 million total for Friday and $370.5 million for Elm Street).
1987 was one of the decades most profitable.
Elm Street was in its third installment ($44 million), The Lost Boys added young vampire thrills to the mix ($32 million) and the action horror of Predator (a movie that probably wouldnt have existed without the success of Alien) brought in strong numbers ($59 million).
The 1990s Biggest Year: 1999, $574.6 million Image Heather Donahue in the found-footage hit "The Blair Witch Project."
Credit Artisan Entertainment The early part of the 90s saw few major horror blockbusters.
Daniel Loria, the editorial director of Boxoffice Media , cites the rise of home video in the late 80s as the reason for the dip.
In a phone interview, he said that many horror films bypassed theaters for home video.
A B-side horror film like The Texas Chain Saw Massacre might not have played in theaters had it been made in the late 80s or early 90s, he said.
It might have just gone straight to video for a quick buck.
Things looked up in the latter half of the decade, with the revival of the slasher genre through the Scream franchise ($331.7 million).
And then, 1999 brought a new revolution via The Blair Witch Project, a lowest-of-budgets found-footage movie shot on video that scared up a phenomenal $140.5 million, along with many copycats.
The Aughts Biggest Year: 2000, $617.7 million Image A scene from "Scream 3," released in 2000, a strong year for horror at the box office.
Credit Dimension Films The 2000s began by coasting on a wave of Scream popularity.
While that franchise added sequels, the 2000 parody Scary Movie pulled in $157 million.
(It ranked No.
9 for the year, followed by the high-end horror drama What Lies Beneath at No.
10.)
Later during this decade, found footage was replaced by slick yet gruesome torture horror like the Saw films, which have taken in $415.9 million so far.
And reboots of earlier horror movies became a trend.
2009 featured a number of these films, including a reboot of Friday the 13th, a sequel to a reboot of Halloween and the sixth entry in the Saw series.
But the jaw-dropper that year wasParanormal Activity.
A return to low-budget found footage, the film had a $15,000 production budget , according to Box Office Mojo, and made $107.9 million.
The 2010s Biggest Year: 2017, $733.5 million Image Daniel Kaluuya in "Get Out," Jordan Peele's hit from earlier this year.
Credit Universal Pictures 2017 has seen several strong performers from one of the most successful contemporary horror producers around, Jason Blum (Get Out, Split, Happy Death Day).
But the biggest story is the tremendous run of It.
That Stephen King adaptation perked up the domestic box office after a dismal August, and not even box office experts predicted just how well the movie would perform.
Mr. Loria of Boxoffice Media said his team forecast an $81 million opening weekend.
The real number was $123 million.
He said they look at social media mentions to see how vocal audiences are being about a title.
When it came to It, Mr. Loria said, it was just really difficult to track the word It across social media to get the snapshot we needed.
Photo Theres plenty of visual heat to be had in New Yorks galleries and museums this fall, but nowhere more than at the American Folk Art Museum.
The radiance shines forth from the bold geometries in War and Pieced: The Annette Gero Collection of Quilts From Military Fabrics.
This ravishing exhibition features 29 sturdy, intricate wartime quilts dating from the Napoleonic and Crimean Wars and also the British colonies, made by soldiers, sailors or regimental tailors in Europe or India.
The military fabrics used here are scraps of soldiers uniforms, that is, felted wool in strong, clear colors: predominantly red, black, cream and gold.
The show initially resembles an array of extra-large game boards, and the checkered center of one quilt was indeed intended for playing chess, another pastime of enlisted men.
Photo The exhibition reminds us that while war is never less than hell, some of its byproducts can be breathtaking and, in their soul-nurturing beauty, the very antithesis of war.
But these textiles are also freighted with patriotism, male bonding and commemoration.
In addition, wartime quilts were sometimes a means of behavior modification.
In Britain at least, quilting was encouraged by the military and temperance organizations alike; they gave idle hands something to do between military engagements, staving off the temptations of drink and gambling.
They also occupied the time of wounded soldiers recovering in military hospitals and prisoners of war.
Some were made for families back home, others to be sold and a few by orderlies as gifts for their commanding officers.
Photo With their pulsating squares, diamonds and triangles of color, these works attest to the expansiveness of geometry, as well as its use in flags, banners and coats of arms.
The unusual quatrefoil motifs of some individual quilt blocks are based on the four-pronged footprint of battlements known as star forts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Interspersed among their patterned borders and fields are beaded crowns, embroidered portraits of monarchs, and dedications to siblings.
A quilt made by Samuel Sadlowski, a tailor in the Prussian Army taken prisoner during the Napoleonic Wars, is dated 1806; it includes among its many fort blocks, a lovely pastoral frieze in appliqu illustrating the folk tale of a goose-stealing fox pursued by a hunter.
In a quilt from 1766, the central medallion features profile portraits of King George III and Queen Charlotte of Britain, but perhaps most riveting is the thick border distinguished by large appliqu blocks with propeller-like designs.
Photo Some quilts are influenced by cultures under occupation, especially Britains greatest colony, India, where tailors sometimes outlined the composition with rows of tiny glass beads, to spectacular effect.
This is all very effective, which is saying a lot.
The nostrums of 12-step recovery, even with Emma resisting them bitterly, are not inherently dramatic.
Montages of Im an addict sharing sessions, peppered with role play and tearful confession by a strong ensemble of actors, are nothing we havent seen before.
Photo Still, the staging gives the illusion that something dynamic and new is happening.
In an odd way, Mr. Herrins hilarious work on the recent production of Noises Off at the Roundabout Theater was excellent preparation.
People, Places & Things is a kind of inverted farce, with all the doors slamming in the other direction.
But I kept waiting for something bigger than fine stagecraft and even Ms. Goughs extreme, ingenious performance to kick in.
In his touching play Every Brilliant Thing and in the brutal adaptation of George Orwells 1984 he wrote with Robert Icke, Mr. Macmillan demonstrated an eagerness to keep the audience engaged in static stories at all costs, and to send it off with a big finish.
These are usually admirable instincts, and they do, for the most part, keep us from wandering as Emma goes through her recovery laps.
Even during the plays longueurs it feels a bit padded to achieve its length you sense that larger questions are being assembled to deliver a gut-punch reversal at the end.
When it comes, you must re-evaluate what you thought you knew.
But Ben Brantley was right to ask, in his New York Times review of the plays 2015 premiere at Londons National Theater, whether that effect is enough to make theatergoers feel that their own long, often tedious path to enlightenment has been worth it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
His answer was no.
Mine is yes, but.
However valuable and accurate People, Places & Things is as a portrait of the addicts nightmare, in and out of rehab, the play really wants to weigh in on a more fundamental issue about addiction and responsibility.
And on this note it seems to waffle as much as I do in responding to it.
Perhaps this is the result of a contradiction built into recovery itself, at least as structured along the 12-step model: We play a large part in our own addictions yet we are powerless over them.
Mr. Macmillan develops the argument between these two ideas in a series of confrontations with three women: the recovery centers doctor; its therapist; and, eventually, Emmas mother.
(It is thematically useful that all are played by Barbara Marten, who is brisk as the doctor, warm as the therapist and jaw dropping as the mother.)
The first two women, as advocates for a process that is fundamentally structured around acceptance of a higher power, locate the source of addiction in a breach of humility: Addiction, the doctor suggests, is caused by trauma we flatter ourselves to think we can ignore or control.
Emma furiously rejects this interpretation, in ways that many an atheist and Foucaultian will recognize.
If its vital to my recovery that I come to believe in a power greater than me, Emma fulminates, then we might all just be wasting our time.
It is, she points out, the 21st century.
And though the doctor explains that her clinic employs a religiously neutral modification of the 12-step template one in which addicts express powerlessness over the three nouns that make up the plays title she nevertheless (Emma notices witheringly) wears a crucifix.
Further, the play is all too successful in replicating the sententiousness and sanctimony of recovery jargon, at least as overheard by an outsider.
So which is it?
Is recovery (as Emma first sees it) a cult of ego deflation or (as she later sees it) a spiritual and medical response to trauma?
It may be reasonable to suggest that, as she recovers, her position gradually changes, her punctured actorly narcissism fizzling with a long hiss.
She leaves rehab a convert to its philosophy of personal responsibility.
But then, as the play closes I wont spoil how we are given devastating evidence that Emmas addiction is not her fault at all, but rather the mark of the worlds cruelty to sensitive souls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Are we not then all addicts?
Or is the play simply addicted to its own effects?
If I was troubled by Mr. Macmillans philosophical opportunism the story sometimes works like a toggle switch, flipped this way and that to maintain suspense perhaps its because I am leery of a mechanistic approach to issue drama.
And to recovery.
Yet it is not the playwrights job to provide answers to such questions.
It is enough that he leaves you scraping the insides of your soul, looking for your own.
But its not so simple.
While Christian is willing to admit fault, he also feels compelled to note that the problem isnt just a matter of his own thoughtlessness.
(Im refraining from saying what he did, since, like everything else that happens in The Square, its too surprising to spoil and too weird to explain.)
There are social forces and economic structures at work, he says, large historical tendencies that both extend and extenuate his guilt.
Immigration.
Inequality.
Social alienation.
Global capitalism.
That kind of thing.
Christian knows a billionaire a donor to the museum who might be able to throw enough money at the problem to solve it.
But even then Is there a saying about fish that live in glass barrels shooting themselves in the foot?
Mr. Ostlund, whose film before this one was the squirmy, incisive Force Majeure, takes aim at some pretty fat satirical targets art, taste, sex and money, for starters and sprays buckshot at the audience as well as in his own face.
The bad conscience of the cultural elite is hardly a new concern in European cinema (or American journalism, if we want to go there), and The Square, which won the Palme dOr in May, uses some of the shock-the-bourgeoisie tactic refined, in recent years, by his fellow Cannes laureates Michael Haneke and Lars von Trier.
If Mr. Ostlund lacks Mr. Hanekes rigor and Mr. von Triers sadism, he at least has a sense of humor.
The Square, ragged and headlong, plays like a series of elaborately staged sketch-comedy routines.
Or, closer to its own concerns, like an anthology of performance art pieces.
Just about everything that happens to Christian has a conceptual dimension, an element of coy self-consciousness, that makes you wonder whether its just something that happened or a carefully planned and theorized happening.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Literally speaking, of course, the movie is a string of such events, though it manages to fool, or at least to tease, the characters as well as the viewers.
The robbery that sets the main plot in motion seems at first like an art-world provocation, and before he quite understands what has happened, Christian experiences the kind of thrill that art is supposed to elicit.
His one night stand with an American journalist (Elisabeth Moss) is not so thrilling, but its very awkwardness has an arch, knowing quality.
Staff meetings at the museum have a similar feel.
Is the baby whom one of Christians colleagues brings into the room really his child?
Is its presence a commentary on the persistence of innocence in a fallen world?
What about Christians own daughters?
Can any human action or feeling be called natural or real?
Still reading?
O.K.
In M. Butterfly, our not-so-bright Gallimard a French embassy official stationed in Beijing in the 1960s falls head over heels for Song, who he thinks is a woman but is really a fetching young dude in Suzie Wong drag.
That Gallimard (and his real-life prototype, Bernard Boursicot, whose case became an international scandal in the mid-1980s) failed to register the imposture has been the subject of much bewildered speculation and many jokes.
(Check out the priceless Forbidden Broadway parody of the show.)
Photo In the latest incarnation of the tale, Song is not merely a man pretending to be a woman.
Hes a man pretending to be a woman pretending to be man who is pretending to be a woman.
Got that?
Never mind.
Well get back to it later.
This extra turn of the screw of pretense is also directly from the case history of Monsieur Boursicot (the subject of a fascinating book by The New York Times columnist Joyce Wadler).
But for audiences who must digest an already complex story (did I mention that Song is a spy for the Chinese government?)
within less than three hours of stage time, its a lot to assimilate.
There is another, even more distracting problem.
Once weve seen Mr. Ha who has a distinctly masculine cast of a jaw in boys clothes early on (thats when he says hes a man who works in drag as an actor in a Beijing opera house), its impossible to unsee him as that boy.
Which makes Gallimard, our deluded protagonist, appear even more mentally challenged than usual.
You could argue that such obtuseness is appropriate for a play that considers the blindness not only of love, but also of cultural and sexual imperialism.
Yes, Gallimard, who has never had much luck with women before, is responding to the novelty of a beautiful actress improbably finding him attractive.
But more important to the plays intriguing and ever timely central thesis is the fact that Song is Asian, perceived as a fragile lotus blossom waiting to be plucked by virile white hands, like the doomed heroine of Puccinis Madama Butterfly, Gallimards favorite opera.
Such, it seems, is the Wests vision of the East.
Mr. Hwang more than implicitly compares Gallimards dim vision regarding his love object to the unrealistic beliefs that Western countries hold about the East.
That includes the presumption that Vietnam would fall in a swoon before the manly forces of the United States.
Song, whose mission as a spy is to elicit information from Gallimard about Frances involvement in Vietnam, speaks scornfully of a Western self-image involving big guns, big industry, big well, you know your own fantasies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But for M. Butterfly to have emotional impact, it must make its audiences uneasily complicit in that fantasy.
In this version, you always maintain the distance sometimes amused, sometimes appalled thats generated by your awareness of theatrical machinery churning away.
Photo Dont blame Mr. Owen, who works skillfully and, well, manfully at becoming a wimp in a part memorably originated by John Lithgow (and played by Jeremy Irons in the 1993 film).
Though he has established himself on screen as a thinking persons hunk (Children of Men, The Knick), Mr. Owen is surprisingly convincing here as someone who could never get a date in high school.
The shows broken master of ceremonies, whom we meet in a French prison cell many years after the events recounted here, Gallimard does his best to frame the story of his relationship with Song as a love story worthy of tragic opera.
As Mr. Owens Gallimard struggles to make facts succumb to romantic fiction, his discomfort in his own skin glistens like flop sweat.
If only this production trusted more in its reliably unreliable narrator, and let us see a bit more through his bedazzled eyes.
Instead, the show has a grinding Brechtian self-consciousness throughout, which calls harsh attention to its less than subtle ironies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Has arch Song seems to be all too demonstratively in on the cosmic joke being played on poor old Gallimard.
Building up the role of Songs shrill Communist party liaison (Celeste Den) was a mistake.
Though Enid Graham is fine in the thankless part of Gallimards wife, the character of his macho best friend (Murray Bartlett) remains an annoying device.
Most disappointing for Ms. Taymors fans is the productions lack of the ravishing visuals she brought to The Lion King and her more recent A Midsummer Nights Dream.
The tall, painted Chinese screens that frame each scene are alarmingly clunky and unsteady.
(Paul Steinberg did the sets.)
The two centerpiece dance sequences, choreographed by Ma Cong, feel scrappy, like numbers from a pared-down touring production of Miss Saigon.
And Elliot Goldenthals original music and soundscapes are usually more intrusive than evocative.
Such clumsiness sadly undermines a play that remains urgently relevant.
Anyone doubting that Gallimards pipe dream of masculinity is still with us need only consult recent reports of the behavior of Hollywood moguls and American presidents or daily accounts of the United States military in quagmires on foreign soil.
But even if the romance at the heart of M. Butterfly is toxic, we still need to be swept up by the tide of this crazy infatuation.
In this incarnation, were not being seduced, but preached at.
And Gallimards grand self-sacrifice seems more pathetic and unnecessary than it ever did before.
Photo LOS ANGELES Weinstein v. Weinstein has commenced.
Harvey Weinstein, who was fired by the studio he had helped found after The New York Times revealed decades of sexual harassment allegations against him, sued the Weinstein Company on Thursday to demand access to records and emails.
The complaint, filed in Delaware Chancery Court, said Mr. Weinstein needed the materials to defend himself.
More than 50 women have come forward in recent weeks to accuse Mr. Weinstein of sexual harassment or rape.
Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account which is the primary, if not only, account he used during the term of his employment by the company will contain information exonerating him, the complaint said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Weinstein also wants access to his former email account and other company documents, including his personnel file, to pursue a claim of wrongful termination against the Weinstein Company, according to the complaint.
He also wants to pursue legal action against the studio for mismanagement by leaking confidential company information saying that certain news reports about his behavior could have only come from his personnel file.
These last couple weeks have unmoored the industry, Ms. Silverstein said in a somber tone during her opening remarks.
But the revelations about Mr. Weinstein and others, she quickly added, should be seized upon as a real opportunity to push for systemic change.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A global conversation about sexual harassment, toxic masculinity and the institutional sexism that envelops the industry is much needed, she said.
Some women in the audience raised a fist in solidarity.
One shouted, Topple the patriarchy!
A few men shifted uncomfortably in their seats.
During a cocktail hour before the ceremony Women and Hollywood held a similar event in New York last week and will host one in London next month honorees like Lenora Lapidus, director of the Womens Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union, networked over coconut chicken skewers and cilantro steak empanadas.
Photo Theres a teeny silver lining, Ms. Lapidus said about the deluge of allegations.
Its reached such a crescendo that theres no going back.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Weinstein, who was fired by the studio he co-founded, has repeatedly denied any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
The ArcLight, an upscale movie theater and event space in the heart of Hollywood, was simultaneously hosting a premiere for Jigsaw, which Lionsgate hopes will restart its Saw franchise.
As women at Ms. Silversteins gathering cited statistics about gender inequality in moviedom women buy 50 percent of movie tickets in the United States, but only 7 percent of the 250 top-grossing films in 2016 were directed by women several dryly noted that it seemed appropriate to have a torture-themed horror movie as a backdrop.
One honoree, Stacy L. Smith, an associate professor at the University of Southern California and author of damning reports about gender discrimination in the movie and television business, called Hollywood a cesspool of humanity.
But Ms. Smith had high praise for Ms. Silverstein, whom she referred to as the entertainment industrys chief agitation officer.
Ms. Silverstein, who grew up on Long Island and works from her Brooklyn apartment, has long focused on womens causes.
After graduating from Brandeis University in 1989 and earning a masters degree from Columbia University in 1993, she worked for organizations like the Ms. Foundation and the White House Project, a now-defunct nonprofit dedicated to increasing female representation in business and government.
Photo In 2007, she started a blog to push for gender diversity in the global film industry.
She called it Women and Hollywood.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I didnt trust my voice at first, but I slowly put myself out there and started to get noticed, Ms. Silverstein said.
Now Im kind of a rabid dog, she added with a chuckle.
On Twitter, where Ms. Silverstein has 33,500 followers, she has been encouraging abused women to come forward.
On Thursday, she tweeted #catchthebastards and #BelieveWomen.
Although it has evolved into a larger organization, Women and Hollywood is still mostly known as a blog.
Ms. Silverstein has a small staff of editors, and the site publishes articles by a range of freelancers.
She does not sell advertising and depends on funding from sponsorships and people like Barbara Dobkin, a philanthropist dedicated to womens issues.
Ms. Silverstein is also artistic director and co-founder of the Athena Film Festival, which programs films, like Suffragette and Hidden Figures, that highlight women in leadership roles.
The eighth annual festival will take place at Barnard College in February.
I do this work because movies are our cave paintings, Ms. Silverstein said.
And there are still so many stories that are missing.
We are desperate for diverse stories from diverse points of view.
Photo Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows.
TODD BARRYS 3 DECADES IN COMEDY BENEFIT at the Bell House (Nov. 1, 8 p.m.).
The droll comedian Todd Barry made his stand-up debut on Nov. 1, 1987.
To celebrate his 30th anniversary, he is gathering some heavy hitters from the comedy world, including Eugene Mirman, Janelle James, Colin Quinn and others, on the same stage.
Proceeds from ticket sales will benefit the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society and the American Kidney Fund.
718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.com OMID DJALILI at Carolines on Broadway (Nov. 2-5, 7:30 p.m.).
The British comedian Omid Djalili casts a critical eye at religion, race and culture, including the kinds of roles his Iranian heritage has granted him: Though he has appeared in a number of films, from Notting Hill to Sex and the City 2 and The World Is Not Enough, he often jokes that he appears in the James Bond film as the second Azerbaijani oil pipe attendant.
212-757-4100, carolines.com HALLOWEEN ON BROADWAY at Carolines on Broadway (Oct. 31, 7:30 p.m.).
Trick-or-treating is somewhat looked down upon after a certain age, but that doesnt mean you cant still join in the fun.
Carolines is hosting a Halloween comedy event with music, costume prizes and comedians who may or may not also be in costume.
Liza Treyger, Sean Donnelly, Janelle James and Jo Firestone are on the bill.
212-757-4100, carolines.com JOKES FOR HAITI at Union Hall (Oct. 29, 8 p.m.).
The comedian Tanael Joachim was so moved by the news of multiple hurricanes ravaging his native country of Haiti that he decided to do something about it.
For this fund-raiser comedy event, he has rounded up the comedians Wil Sylvince, Aparna Nancherla and Liza Treyger to benefit Nova Hope for Haiti, a nonprofit that provides medical aid to the country.
718-638-4400, unionhallny.com DEMETRI MARTIN: LETS GET AWKWARD TOUR at Gramercy Theater (Oct. 27-28, 7 and 9:30 p.m.).
Of all the successful comedians in business today, Demetri Martin has one of the most fascinating background stories when it comes to his journey to the stage.
A Yale graduate who was awarded a full scholarship to New York University Law School, he abandoned the course of study before the start of his final year to pursue comedy instead.
His stand-up sets burst with a level of wit thats hard to see coming, offset by his even-tempered, dry delivery.
212-614-6932, venue.thegramercytheatre.com
Photo Our guide to the citys best classical music and opera.
ENSEMBLE SIGNAL at Zankel Hall (Nov. 2, 7:30 p.m.).
This new-music group from Brad Lubman have made a real specialty out of Steve Reichs music over the past few seasons, and it presents another opportunity to grapple with that legendary composers work here.
Clapping Music, Quartet and Double Sextet, which won a Pulitzer Prize in 2009, are known quantities; Pulse and Runner are both much newer works.
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org MARC-ANDR HAMELIN at Carnegie Hall (Nov. 1, 8 p.m.).
With both Mr. Hamelin and Daniil Trifonov, hyper-virtuosos both, on the schedule, its a tough week for the Stern Auditoriums Steinways.
After some exploration of relatively modest works in recent years, Mr. Hamelin returns with a program that has its delicate sides (Liszts rapt Bndiction de Dieu Dans la Solitude, Debussys Images) but is otherwise filled with pyrotechnics, not least Godowskys Symphonic Metamorphosis on Themes by Johann Strauss.
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Nov. 2, 7:30 p.m., through Nov. 4).
Alan Gilbert remains on the podium of his former ensemble this week, and with a further tribute to another former Philharmonic music director, Leonard Bernstein.
On the bill this time are Lennys Prelude, Fugue and Riffs and his Symphony No.
2, The Age of Anxiety, with Gershwins Rhapsody in Blue for company.
The jazz pianist Makoto Ozone and the orchestras principal clarinetist, Anthony McGill, are the soloists.
212-875-5656, nyphil.org STEVEN OSBORNE at the Stanley H. Kaplan Penthouse (Oct. 31, 7:30 p.m.).
As part of the White Light Festival, this urbane pianist performs the Vingt Regards sur lEnfant-Jsus, Olivier Messiaens transcendent meditation on the birth of Christ.
212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/white-light-festival THE PSALMS EXPERIENCE at St. Pauls Chapel (Nov. 2, 7:30 p.m.).
This mammoth festival of psalms, the centerpiece of this years White Light Festival, features the work of 150 composers, many of them writing today.
The series runs until Nov. 11, but begins with Julian Wachner and the superlative Choir of Trinity Wall Street in this program dwelling on Mortal Leadership, Divine Guidance.
The music ranges across the centuries, from Praetorius and Byrd to William Knight and James MacMillan.
212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/white-light-festival DANIIL TRIFONOV at Carnegie Hall (Oct. 28, 8 p.m.).
Carnegie Hall often hands its Perspectives series, in which stars conceive multiple programs over the course of a season, to artists at the peak of their careers, so its good to see the management entrust Mr. Trifonov, plenty established at the ripe old age of 26, with a few evenings to explore his considerable musical imagination.
This program echoes his new recording with homages to Chopin represented by the Piano Sonata No.
2 by Mompou, Schumann, Grieg, Barber, Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff.
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org
DANNY L HARLE at Brooklyn Night Bazaar (Oct. 27, 8 p.m.).
Perhaps the most pop-friendly member of the puckish British dance-music clique PC Music, the producer Danny L Harle specializes in pure, clean tones geared toward euphoria.
Songs like Broken Flowers, Ashes of Love and ILY2 (which he produced for the singer Charli XCX) are instant and irresistible, with no advanced degree in irony needed to appreciate them.
With Abby and Maxo.
bkbazaar.com TIM MCGRAW AND FAITH HILL at Barclays Center (Oct. 27, 7:30 p.m.).
Country musics royal couple started their first co-headlining tour in a decade back in April; now, 60-some arena dates later, theyre concluding its North American run with a night at Barclays Center.
Expect to hear plenty of familiar hits, plus a few songs from their coming duets album, The Rest of Our Life (due out Nov. 17, with a satin-smooth title track co-written by Ed Sheeran).
With Margo Price.
917-618-6700, barclayscenter.com TORRES at Music Hall of Williamsburg (Oct. 27, 9 p.m.).
The Macon, Ga.-raised singer-songwriter Torres broke through in 2015 with the poignant grunge of Sprinter, her second studio album.
Her follow-up, Three Futures, released this September, pushes forward into radical new territory, both musically and lyrically: Its a darkly psychedelic, confrontational LP about sex and power that makes her earlier recordings feel like warm-ups for the main event.
With the Dove & the Wolf.
888-929-7849, musichallofwilliamsburg.com Advertisement Continue reading the main story SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON Photo Jazz FUERZA PUERTO RICO!
at the Jazz Gallery (Nov. 1, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.).
The illustrious alto saxophonist Miguel Zenn has organized this all-star concert, a benefit for Puerto Rican victims of Hurricane Maria.
The evening boasts a fabulous lineup, including the trumpeter Dave Douglas, the vocalist Kurt Elling, the saxophonists Branford Marsalis and Jon Irabagon, and the bassist Christian McBride.
All proceeds will go to the Puerto Rico Recovery Fund.
646-494-3625, jazzgallery.nyc FRED HERSCH at the Village Vanguard (Oct. 31-Nov. 5, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.).
Mr. Hersch, a starkly articulate and affecting pianist, recently put out Open Book, a solo record that comprises original compositions, covers of jazz standards and a 20-minute free improvisation.
He will take the stage alone for the first three nights of this run, then will be joined by his trio mates, the bassist John Hbert and the drummer Eric McPherson, for the next three.
212-255-4037, villagevanguard.com JOHNNY ONEAL at Smoke (Oct. 27-29; 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m.).
Mr. ONeal, a vocalist and virtuoso pianist, became known in 1980s New York for his ability to fit comfortably into a postbop scenario, while maintaining a broad palette of references from the classic pianism of Art Tatum and Earl Hines to the soul harmonies of Donny Hathaway and Stevie Wonder.
He subsequently left New York, staying away for decades, but in recent years he has re-ensconced himself in the scene, this time as a mentor and standard-bearer.
He recently released In the Moment, an album of tightly rendered straight-ahead, on Smoke Sessions, the record label affiliated with Smoke.
He celebrates the release here with a three-night run featuring his trio, as well as special guests to be named.
212-864-6662, smokejazz.com Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
ODEAN POPE SAXOPHONE CHOIR WITH RAVI COLTRANE at the Blue Note (Oct. 30, 8 and 10:30 p.m.).
The tenor saxophonist Odean Pope, a looming figure in his native Philadelphia, earned his stripes playing alongside Max Roach in the 1970s.
But by now hes most often thought of in association with the Saxophone Choir, a large ensemble hes held together for the past 40 years.
Surging momentum and full-blossom harmonies coexist happily in this group, which vests Mr. Popes compositions with a hard-bitten beauty.
Its concerts at the Blue Note have become a tradition unto themselves, and typically involve one special guest.
This show features Mr. Coltrane, a tenor and soprano saxophonist, performing with a 10-piece iteration of the ensemble.
212-475-8592, bluenote.net SCOTT ROBINSON AND THE HELIOTONES at Jazz Standard (Oct. 31, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.).
The saxophonist and multi-instrumentalist Mr. Robinson, a remarkable talent with wildly varied interests, is about to release Heliosonic Toneways, Vol.
1, an engrossing album that he recorded in 2015, exactly 50 years after Sun Ra made the now-classic The Heliocentric Worlds of Sun Ra (Vol.
1).
The original album laid down a new, Ra-specific standard for free improvising: darker, slower, cooler and thicker than the work of Ornette Coleman or Cecil Taylor.
On Heliosonic Toneways, Mr. Robinson pays tribute with an all-star cast, using electronic and acoustic instruments to similarly viscous effect.
He celebrates its release at this show, joined by Philip Harper on trumpet, Frank Lacy on trombone, Gary Versace on piano and organ, Pat OLeary on bass and Matt Wilson on drums.
212-576-2232, jazzstandard.com JEN SHYU at the Stone at the New School (Oct. 27-28, 8:30 p.m.).
Ms. Shyu is a multi-instrumentalist and vocalist whose compositions trace a winding path back through history and heritage.
Song of Silver Geese, her coming album, consists of an original, nine-part suite drawing on East Asian and Melanesian folk song, and the writings of two of her mentors.
On the album, which finds Ms. Shyu cycling nimbly through languages and emotional registers, she is joined by a string quartet and her jazz septet, Jade Tongue.
On Friday she will perform the suite with a five-piece band, then will give a solo concert on Saturday.
thestonenyc.com MIN XIAO-FEN WITH THE CREATIVE MUSIC ORCHESTRA at El Taller Latino Americano (Oct. 28, 8:30 p.m.).
Ms. Min, a spry and fearless practitioner of the pipa, a Chinese lute, has a new album out, titled Mao, Monk and Me.
On it she performs and sings unaccompanied, blending the music of Thelonious Monk with Chinese folk song and her own experimental excursions.
She will appear here as a special guest of Karl Bergers Creative Music Orchestra, a collective of improvisers whose approach to spontaneous composition, like Ms. Mins, attempts to neutralize the divides between genres and cultural lineages.
creativemusic.org GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
JUNK at the Vivian Beaumont Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 2).
Invest in this latest work from the playwright Ayad Akhtar (Disgraced), a writer who specializes in nuanced characters and fraught ethical situations.
This drama, directed by Doug Hughes for Lincoln Center and starring Steven Pasquale, explores the high-stakes, low-equity world of 1980s finance.
212-239-6200, lct.org KNIVES IN HENS at 59E59 Theaters (in previews; opens on Oct. 29).
This 1995 play by David Harrower (Blackbird) is set in the Dark Ages.
And these particular ages are darker than most.
Paul Takacs directs the tale of a young woman (Robyn Kerr) tethered to a cruel husband who finds liberation through language.
212-279-4200, 59e59.org METEOR SHOWER at the Booth Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 29).
Stars shooting and otherwise will align for the Broadway run of this absurdist comedy from Steve Martin.
Amy Schumer, Keegan-Michael Key, Laura Benanti and Jeremy Shamos play two married couples united by an astronomical event and divided by almost everything else.
Jerry Zaks directs.
212-239-6200, MeteorOnBroadway.com RED ROSES, GREEN GOLD at the Minetta Lane Theater (in previews; opens on Oct. 29).
Living deadheads can welcome this new musical, which draws on the music and lyrics of Jerry Garcia and Robert Hunter.
It remains to be seen if this trip, with a book by Michael Norman Mann and choreography and direction by Rachel Klein, will be long or strange.
But it involves a swindler named Jackson Jones.
800-745-3000, redrosesgreengold.com SCHOOL GIRLS; OR, THE AFRICAN MEAN GIRLS PLAY at the Lucille Lortel Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 19).
In Jocelyn Biohs comedy about beauty, difference and malice, the pupils at a Ghanaian girls school compete for their shot at beauty pageant fame.
Under the Tony winner Rebecca Taichmans direction, Zainab Jah and Myra Lucretia Taylor star in this MCC production.
866-811-4111, mcctheater.org UNCOMMON SENSE at the Sheen Center for Thought & Culture (in previews; opens on Nov. 2).
A play for the neurotypical and others, this new piece for Tectonic Theater Project is written by Anushka Paris-Carter and Andy Paris and directed by Mr. Paris.
It is inspired by the true stories of four people on the autism spectrum.
212-925-2812, sheencenter.org Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
WHAT WERE UP AGAINST at the WP Theater (previews start on Oct. 28; opens on Nov. 8).
In Theresa Rebecks play at the WP Theater, its 1992 and an architect, Eliza (Krysta Rodriguez), has just joined a new firm.
Too bad her chauvinist colleagues cant design themselves better working relationships.
Adrienne Campbell-Holt directs this dark comedy of construction problems and unreconstructed attitudes.
866-811-4111, wptheater.org THE WOLVES at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 20).
Sarah DeLappes prizewinning play about a high school soccer team returns to the field.
When the show, directed by Lila Neugebauer, ran last year, Ben Brantley wrote that the scary, exhilarating brightness of raw adolescence emanates from every scene.
212-239-6200, lct.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story Last Chance MARY JANE at New York Theater Workshop (closes on Oct. 29).
Amy Herzogs play about a single mother caring for her sick child ends its Off Broadway run.
Jesse Green wrote that this production, directed by Anne Kauffman and starring Carrie Coon, is the most profound and harrowing of Ms. Herzogs many fine plays.
212-460-5475, nytw.org {MY LINGERIE PLAY}: INSTALLATION #9: THE CONCERT AND CALL TO ARMS!!!!!!!!!
THE FINAL INSTALLATION at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater (closes on Oct. 28).
Diana Oh and an impressive selection of undies end their Off-Broadway run.
Laura Collins-Hughes describes this blend of music and storytelling, co-directed by Orion Stephanie Johnstone, as a glitter bomb of feminist and queer protest that feels just right for this cultural moment.
866-811-4111, rattlestick.org PRINCE OF BROADWAY at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater (closes on Oct. 29).
This revue celebrating the storied career of the producer and director Harold Prince sets down its black-framed glasses.
Ben Brantley likened this scattered show, which spans six decades and includes a bounty of showstoppers, to hearing a rushed raconteur drop name after famous name.
212-239-6200, manhattantheatreclub.com THE TREASURER at Playwrights Horizons (closes on Nov. 5).
Max Posners play about a grown son managing the finances of his ailing mother closes its purse strings.
Ben Brantley admired how this tender and unforgiving play, directed by David Cromer, adroitly balances the everyday and the extreme.
212-279-4200, phnyc.org WAR PAINT at the Nederlander Theater (closes on Nov. 5).
Audiences will have a tougher time thinking pink when this musical about the beauty moguls Elizabeth Arden and Helena Rubinstein takes off its makeup.
Ben Brantley described the show, which stars Patti LuPone and Christine Ebersole, as a double portrait of unchanging women during changing times.
877-250-2929, warpaintmusical.com
Photo Our guide to cultural events in New York City for families with children and teenagers.
BOO AT THE ZOO at the Bronx, Queens and Prospect Park Zoos (Oct. 28-29) Halloween promises a wild time, and few places do that better than those where wild creatures reside.
Each year these zoos host weekend celebrations that educate about animals as well as entertain young humans.
From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., the Bronx Zoo offers a Haunted Forest, with both wildlife models and scary apparitions, and the Extinct Species Graveyard, a fake cemetery devoted to a real threat: vanishing creatures.
Other attractions include presentations of live birds associated with Halloween, like owls, ravens and vultures, and a costume parade with stilt walkers from Alice Farley Dance Theater.
The Queens Zoos festivities, also 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., include holiday treats for wildlife meat-stuffed pumpkins, for example and a haunted trail for people.
The Prospect Park Zoo, whose Boo runs 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., with a Spooky Barn, is focusing on bats, whose activities are more helpful than horrifying.
And who could resist a concluding dance party alongside the sea lions, which are pretty inventive movers themselves?
718-367-1010, bronxzoo.com/boo; 718-271-1500, queenszoo.com; 718-399-7339, prospectparkzoo.com DIA DE LOS MUERTOS/DAY OF THE DEAD at the National Museum of the American Indian (Oct. 28, noon to 5 p.m.).
This Mexican and Central American holiday is about a happy return, not a tortured haunting.
Believed to be a time when the spirits of deceased love ones revisit their homes, it features lots of skeletons and skulls, all considered joyous rather than ghoulish.
At this free Manhattan event, children can celebrate by decorating paper skull masks and skeleton puppets, painting plaster skulls and making paper flowers, another holiday symbol.
Surrounding the museums community ofrenda, or altar, the troupe Cetiliztli Nauhcampa Quetzalcotl in Ixachitln will perform traditional dances.
212-514-3700, americanindian.si.edu GHOULS & GOURDS at Brooklyn Botanic Garden (Oct. 28, noon to 5:30 p.m.).
And books.
This garden presents a Halloween festival that aims to cultivate young minds as well as a few chills.
Its Author Avenue will feature readings by almost 20 local childrens writers and illustrators, often exploring humorously spooky themes.
Other entertainment includes a Vegetable Midway, with produce-inspired games, and a Club Bug, where visitors can stroke hissing cockroaches and feed hornworms.
Two stages will offer live performances of music, theater and circus arts, and a finale costume parade and drum circle will welcome little goblins to strut alongside stilt dancers.
718-623-7200, bbg.org HALLOWEEN HARBOR at Snug Harbor Cultural Center & Botanical Garden (Oct. 28, 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 p.m.).
Spirits dont need houses to haunt; ships, wharves and beaches will do just as well, and those will be among the spooky milieus investigated in this Staten Island event, which comprises five institutions on the harbor campus.
Highlights will include pumpkin painting on the South Meadow and Van Gogh, Goblin Games, Goo and Gobs More, from noon to 3 p.m. at the Staten Island Childrens Museum, where visitors can conduct electricity experiments, la Victor Frankenstein, and join a Monster Mash dance party and costume parade.
The Staten Island Museum will offer more mad science activities (noon to 4 p.m.), while the Noble Maritime Collection will present "Mysterious Harbor (4 p.m.), the historian Pat Salmons talk and slide show about eerie episodes in the areas past.
Teenagers may also enjoy the evening Ghost Tours of Snug Harbor, in which paranormal investigators will visit buildings that are normally closed.
halloweenharbor17.brownpapertickets.com OBAKE FAMILY DAY: SPIRITS OF THE MISTY SEA at Japan Society (Oct. 29, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.).
Japan doesnt celebrate Halloween, but that doesnt mean it has a dearth of ghosts and goblins.
Called obake (pronounced oh-BAH-kay), or shape-shifters, and yokai (Yoke-EYE), or monsters and spirits, they will be out in force at this festival, which this year focuses on those with watery origins.
Festivities include an interactive performance of Mysterious Lake, a puppet- and percussion-filled play based on a short story about an American boy in Japan who encounters many helpful supernatural entities at the title location.
Young revelers can also enjoy a Haunted Adventure Tour, a seafaring quest that will involve surmounting obstacles and outwitting prankster spirits, and a Port of Call Amusement Hall, with traditional games.
All are invited to join the concluding Parade of 100 Ghouls; costumes are encouraged.
212-715-1258, japansociety.org ONCE UPON A DRAG at N.Y.U.
Skirball (Oct. 29, 3 p.m.).
Creative costuming is at the heart of Halloween, and whos more of an expert than New Yorks drag performers?
At this Greenwich Village celebration, billed as for kids of all genders and ages, eight entertainers promise not only a costume party but also a performance of fairy tales whose plots and lessons have been adapted for contemporary relevance.
Young audience members are invited to dress as their favorite fairy tale characters, but if they dont have costumes, some of the participating artists will offer one-minute makeovers in the theater lobby, starting at 2 p.m. 212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org A SKY FOR THE BEARS at the New Victory Theater (Oct. 28-Nov. 5).
There is no Goldilocks in this theatrical adventure.
Based on two German childrens books and presented by the Italian company Teatro Gioco Vita, this production, having its American premiere, focuses on the dreams of its furry title characters.
One adult bear, tired of his solitude, embarks on a journey to find a family.
In another forest, a cub seeks the clouds, hoping for a reunion with his dead grandfather.
Recommended for ages 4 through 7, the 45-minute piece unfolds unusually, through imaginative puppetry (especially shadow puppetry), dance, acrobatic movement and a lilting score.
646-223-3010, newvictory.org SPIDER DAY at Wave Hill (Oct. 29, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.).
Most children are acquainted with the itsy-bitsy spider of nursery rhyme, but if theyd like to meet bigger and bushier varieties, this Bronx public garden is the place.
It will honor all things arachnid, starting with its family art project (on Saturday, too) from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Participants can make both spider web costumes of mesh tulle and individual insects from felt and pipe cleaners while listening to Rama Mandel, who will offer spider-filled folk tales.
From noon to 3 p.m., the garden will feature an Arachnid Appreciation Station, where the entomologist Lawrence Forcella will show off live and preserved examples, including common orb weavers and fuzzy tarantulas.
718-549-3200, wavehill.org
Photo Our guide to dance performances.
ARMITAGE DANCE!
GONE at La MaMa (Oct. 27 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m., Oct. 28 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m., Oct. 29 at 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.).
Karole Armitage has long infused ballet with unconventional influences to give it a dark look, a wild defiance and a sharp edge.
For her latest work, Halloween Unleashed: Dancing Bones, Tasting Darkness and the Skeleton Within, she has added to that brew the 1929 Disney cartoon The Skeleton Dance and the spirit of Haitian carnival.
Set to a score ranging from Marilyn Manson to David Lang and original music by Terry Dame, the result is a toothy treat for a fun and ghoulish holiday.
212-475-7710, lamama.org XAVIER CHA at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, BAM Fisher (Nov. 1-4 at 7:30 p.m.).
Xavier Cha has been a regular presence in New York galleries and museums for over a decade, with work that pushes physical and emotional borders.
As artist-in-residence at BAM Fisher, and in association with Performa 17, she presents Buffer, a new work that considers todays digital boundaries of romance and sex, challenging the public-private divide.
Buffer unfolds through three interwoven scenes one with spoken text, one comprising opera and athletic dance, and one featuring adult-film performers getting very intimate.
Suggested for viewers 17 and older.
718-636-4100, bam.org SOPHIA CLEARY AND NEAL MEDLYN at the Chocolate Factory (Nov 1-4 at 8 p.m.).
In the past, Neal Medlyn has mined the universe of pop stars, like Britney Spears and Miley Cyrus, to comment on things like superficiality.
Now in partnership with Sophia Cleary, he again finds inspiration in real-life figures in fictional scenarios.
This time, its Anne Geddes, the photographer responsible for sticking babies in flowers, and G G Allin, the violent punk musician, who died in 1993.
Ms. Cleary and Mr. Medlyn imagine a meeting of these opposites of sweetness and subversion to wonder if sentimentality can become transgressive.
718-482-7069, chocolatefactorytheater.org DRESDEN SEMPEROPER BALLETT at the Joyce Theater (Oct. 31-Nov. 4 at various times).
The English choreographer David Dawson is celebrated in Europe but rarely seen here.
Luckily, several examples of his smart, elegant work come to the Joyce this week, performed by the Dresden Semperoper Ballett, where he has a long association.
One is an excerpt from his full-length Giselle; another is set to music by Max Richter.
Theyre joined by a work to a Bach chaconne by the Belgian choreographer Stijn Celis, and the premiere of a new work by the young American company dancer Joseph Hernandez.
212-242-0800, joyce.org NEW YORK THEATRE BALLET at Danspace Project (Nov. 2-4 at 8 p.m.).
In its Legend and Visionaries series, this appealing chamber troupe presents eclectic programs of old gems, modern classics and new creations by promising choreographers.
The latest iteration includes La Malinche, the first work Jos Limn made for his company in 1949; a 2011 commissioned work by the veteran British choreographer Richard Alston; the company premiere of the postmodernist pioneer David Gordons Beethoven/1999; and a new work by Gemma Bond, an American Ballet Theater dancer with who has created a number of impressive works in recent years.
866-811-4111, danspaceproject.org PREETI VASUDEVAN at New York Live Arts (Nov. 2-4 at 7:30 p.m.).
Classical Indian dance tells stories of gods and goddesses, bringing ancient myths to life through intricate gestures.
Preeti Vasudevan, a celebrated interpreter of the Bharatanatyam style, puts a provocative modern twist on tradition by telling a different tale her own.
In Stories by Hand, created during a two-year residency at New York Live Arts, Ms. Vasudevan uses her technique to contemplate marriage and motherhood, grapple with a family tragedy, reflect on performance and convey what it means to be an Indian woman in America today.
212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.org
Photo The pilot for a new FX show, Pose, will feature what the network called the largest cast of transgender series regulars on television, it announced Wednesday.
The show is to be a deep dive into the culture of New York City in the 1980s.
It is the brainchild of the Glee and American Horror Story collaborators Ryan Murphy and Brad Falchuk along with Steven Canals.
Among the transgender performers who were cast: MJ Rodriguez (Nurse Jackie, Luke Cage); Dominique Jackson, a New York-based model; Hailie Sahar (Transparent, Mr.
Robot); Angelica Ross (Transparent, Claws); and Indya Moore, who appeared in Saturday Church, a film musical that debuted at the Tribeca Film Festival.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Transgender performers have long appeared on reality shows like RuPauls Drag Race as well as scripted series like Amazons Transparent, though that show has been criticized for casting Jeffrey Tambor, an actor who is not transgender, in the lead role.
On Netflix, Orange Is the New Black propelled the transgender actress Laverne Cox to fame for her portrayal of the inmate Sophia Burset.
Photo Our guide to new art shows and some that will be closing soon.
DRAWN TO GREATNESS: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION, at the Morgan Library & Museum (through Jan. 7).
This major group drawing show constitutes a grand summing-up of a career, of an art form and of an institutions holdings.
During the past 60 years, the New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare Eddy Thaw, amassed a phenomenal drawing collection notable for its chronological breadth, running from the early Renaissance to the near present.
This year they gave more than 400 items outright to the Morgan, expanding and deepening its range.
The 150 works on view include a super-rare Andrea Mantegna, an unearthly Samuel Palmer and a soulful Vincent Van Gogh.
(Holland Cotter) 212-685-0008, themorgan.org LAUREN GREENFIELD: GENERATION WEALTH at the International Center of Photography (through Jan. 7).
They that will be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, warns the Book of Timothy.
For 25 years, this Beverly Hills-born photographer has been shooting brand-obsessed, money-addled Americans rich and poor alike whose moral rot is expressed through hot-pink Birkin bags, Versace-upholstered furniture and McMansions the size of a small principality.
The result is a tasteless show for a tasteless time.
Some of Ms. Greenfields photographs have a moral passion that exceeds distaste.
But most of these shots are dismissive and shallow, and imply that vulgarity is a greater crime than economic unfairness.
(Jason Farago) 212-857-0000; icp.org THE VIETNAM WAR: 1945-1975 at the New-York Historical Society (through April 22).
In contrast to the stately PBS series The Vietnam War, this jammed exhibition delivers historical data, and a lot of it, quick-and-dirty, through labels, film clips, audio bytes and objects, some of which fall under a broad definition of art.
Along with paintings by contemporary Vietnamese artists, theres graffiti-style drawing on combat helmets and Zippo lighters, and period design in the form of album covers and protest posters.
Words and images work together in illustrated murals labeled Home Front and War Front that put you right in the middle of the wars primary issues and events.
(Cotter) 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org AI WEIWEI: GOOD FENCES MAKE GOOD NEIGHBORS at Washington Square Park, Doris C. Freedman Plaza and throughout New York City (through Feb. 11, 2018) A citywide public art disruption by Chinas most important contemporary artist comprises large steel cages uptown and downtown, chain-link fences behind bus stops from Harlem to the Bronx, protective netting around Corona Parks Unisphere, and hundreds of portraits of refugees on lampposts.
Mr. Ai is a refugee himself he fled to Berlin in 2015 and by this point there is no untangling his art and his activism.
(Farago) Installation sites are at publicartfund.org Last Chance DEADEYE DICK: RICHARD BELLAMY AND HIS CIRCLE, at Peter Freeman Gallery (through Oct. 28).
A wistfully romantic portrait of the postwar dealer Richard Bellamy, a passionate advocate for contemporary art, Deadeye Dick emphasizes the early-1960s heyday of the Green Gallery he founded on West 57th Street while inviting judgments about the realities of the art trade today.
Alongside early works by Donald Judd, Claes Oldenburg and other familiar names who began at the Green are pieces by Jean Follett and Sidney Tillim, as well as portraits of Bellamy by Alex Katz and others that attest to his charisma.
(Karen Rosenberg) 212-966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com
Photo Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
THE CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI at Kings Theater, CARNIVAL OF SOULS at the Nitehawk Cinema and PHOTOGRAPHING A GHOST at Light Industry (Oct. 31).
If theres a theme to this years Halloween movie offerings, its silent films in Brooklyn.
At the restored Kings Theater in Flatbush which doesnt often show films, despite its history as a movie palace the German Expressionist landmark The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1920) will screen with live accompaniment from jazz musicians.
At the Nitehawk in Williamsburg, the band Long Distance Poison will provide a score for the 1962 cult classic Carnival of Souls (which is technically a sound movie, but lets not nitpick).
And Light Industry in Greenpoint will screen early shorts that draw on the prevailing interest in spiritualism at the time they were made.
Some of these films use cinema technology to try to disprove the existence of ghosts; others, through movie magic, try to conjure them.
718-856-5464, kingstheatre.com 718-782-8370, nitehawkcinema.com lightindustry.org HANK AND JIM at Film Forum (Oct. 27 through Nov. 16).
A companion series to a new book about the friendship between Henry Fonda and James Stewart, Film Forums retrospective positions the two stars as a study in contrasts especially in cases when the theater will pair the actors movies in double features.
Friday offers back-to-back Hitchcock movies: In Rope, Mr. Stewart serves as the voice of moral reason while foiling a pair of Leopold-Loeb-like killers pre-dinner-party murder; in The Wrong Man, Mr. Fonda plays a jazz musician who through a series of cosmically cruel coincidences is mistaken for a holdup man.
Saturday provides a dual lesson in civic responsibility: Mr. Stewart is a credit to the Senate in Frank Capras Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and Mr. Fonda shows the virtues of being an open-minded juror in Sidney Lumets 12 Angry Men.
212-727-8110, filmforum.org HOLY BLOOD: MEXICAN HORROR CINEMA at BAM Rose Cinemas (Oct. 27 through Nov. 2).
BAM celebrates Halloween by offering a survey of terrifying films from Mexico, where a strain of Catholicism-inflected, hallucinatory cinema reigned supreme.
The highlights include La Ta Alejandra (Friday), in which the Luis Buuel protg Arturo Ripstein offers his take on witchcraft; Cronos (Friday), Guillermo del Toros feature debut, centered on an antique dealer (Federico Luppi, who died last week) who acquires an appetite for blood; Santa Sangre, the 1989 comeback feature of Alejandro Jodorowsky, the midnight-movie auteur of El Topo; and El Vampiro, which brings the Dracula legend back to Mexico (where it had already been for a Spanish-language version of the 1930s Universal film).
718-636-4100, bam.org
Photo Protesters splattered red liquid onto the base of the bronze statue of Theodore Roosevelt outside the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, and later published a statement on the internet calling for its removal as an emblem of patriarchy, white supremacy and settler-colonialism.
Now the statue is bleeding, said the statement Thursday from the protesters, who identified themselves as members of the Monument Removal Brigade.
We did not make it bleed.
It is bloody at its very foundation.
The group said the museum should rethink its cultural halls regarding the colonial mentality behind them.
City workers using a power washer, a sponge and soapy water later began cleaning the statue, the latest focus of debate over statues or monuments around the country that celebrate figures like Robert E. Lee and Christopher Columbus.
In Pittsburgh this week, the citys arts commission recommended the removal of a statue of Stephen Foster, the composer.
The statue shows Foster playing the banjo as he stands above a black slave.
Photo The statue of Roosevelt, a conservationist, has stood outside the museum since 1940.
Created by James Earle Fraser, and owned by the city, it depicts Roosevelt astride a horse and flanked by a Native American and an African-American.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Long regarded as a politician who battled corruption, challenged monopolies and championed Civil Service, Roosevelt has also been criticized for his views of certain peoples as inferior and his defense of colonial expansion.
Photo The new Amazon series Fearless is a solid, atmospheric but unsurprising exercise in a British perennial: the old-boys-club conspiracy thriller, in which an ordinary bloke discovers that the aristocrats and technocrats who run the country will go to murderous lengths to cover up their indiscretions.
Superior versions include Edge of Darkness (1985, available on DVD) and the great State of Play (2003, streaming at Britbox).
This new iteration, which starts streaming its six episodes on Amazon Prime on Friday, was created and written by Patrick Harbinson, who has extensive experience in the more caffeinated American versions of these stories as a writer and producer on Homeland and 24.
His primary innovation is to make the characters doing the dirty work women.
Emma Banville (Helen McCrory), a crusading lawyer, uncovers what appears, in the three episodes available for review, to be a cover-up involving a murder and an American air base.
Shes opposed by American (Robin Weigert of Deadwood) and British (Wunmi Mosaku) operatives who carry out their orders with varying degrees of enthusiasm.
In trying to construct the layered plot a conspiracy tale requires, Mr. Harbinson piles on complications but doesnt really find a hook to pull us into the story.
Emma, whos sheltering the wife of a British citizen suspected of terrorism, is already being watched by the British spy services when the series begins.
Then she takes on the wrongful-conviction case of a man in prison for the murder of a teenage girl.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
This results in Emma and her very patient boyfriend having two houseguests who are both persons of interest to the government, a situation that serves a dramatic purpose but mostly just feels contrived.
It doesnt help the storys believability that, in order to reinforce Emmas fearlessness on behalf of her clients, Mr. Harbinson exaggerates both the hatred she inspires (from the dead girls family) and the malevolence of the governments opposition to levels that are excessive even for a paranoid thriller.
If your appetite for dark tales of official malfeasance is strong, Fearless will go down easily enough, helped by the usual superior British cast Jamie Bamber (Battlestar Galactica) pops up as a shifty member of Parliament and Michael Gambon drifts in and out as the master of the universe whos guilty of something that will presumably be revealed in Episode 6.
If six hours is a tough ask, though, go straight to State of Play.
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
Photo The first time we hear Maya Dardel (Lena Olin, and her inimitable rasp), she is declaring her intention to commit suicide.
Maya, a renowned poet living in isolation, believes her work has begun to decline.
Her only concern now is with finding a worthy heir to manage her estate.
Women need not apply Maya wants to play with power and toy with the young male poets who offer themselves as her potential successors.
Video The passions that drive Maya Dardel, written and directed by Magdalena Zyzak and Zachary Cotler, are more literary than cinematic.
Maya circles her legacy-minded suitors, dropping references to Sylvia Plath and discussing the merits of rhyme schemes and suicide.
But for all the linguistic gymnastics, the film is hamstrung by its directors lack of visual imagination.
Maya challenges her boyish applicants poetically, sexually and finally with offers of intimacy, but the editing all too often settles into a submissive back and forth.
During Mayas tte--ttes, we get a glimpse of her home, but every room in her mountainside hideaway has the same sickly hues of blue and green.
What little light makes it through appears weak and suffocated, and though the claustrophobia abates when she walks through the California brambles, even nature isnt immune to the enervating pallor of Ms. Zyzak and Mr. Cotlers compositions.
The red-blooded vivacity of Ms. Olins performance, however, pierces through the muck.
She chews feeble lines like meat, spitting out the masticated remains.
For all of Mayas talk of finding the youthful Actaeon to her Artemis, the only time Ms. Olin appears matched is in her brief scenes with her neighbor, Leonora, played by the equally strong Rosanna Arquette.
Mr. Roukens, who at 35 is around the same age Bernstein was when he composed the Serenade, both nods to Bernstein and stays true to his own voice in Boundless.
As Bernstein did, Mr. Roukens has explored cross-currents between popular and classical styles.
Stretches of his 15-minute, three-movement score come alive with jazzy energy.
And he draws short motifs from two of Bernsteins Anniversaries for piano, written in tribute to friends.
Photo Manically, the first movement, whisks along, propelled by pulsing rhythmic riffs.
Hints of skittish themes pop up, then fade out.
The orchestration is glittering and brassy, without being blaring.
During the slow movement, Glacially, strings provide a tremulous harmonic backdrop as chorale-like music subtly emerges, though the chords keep sliding up and down.
Tinkling percussion suggests that the third movement, Propulsively, is going to be playful.
Not so.
It soon turns frenzied, though the overall mood is ebullient.
Though Bernsteins Serenade was inspired by his reading of Platos Symposium, a dialogue in praise of love, he cautioned listeners not to read too much loftiness into the allusion.
This winning performance emphasized the modesty, in the best sense, of the piece, which emerged as a lucidly structured score with intricate fugato episodes and inventive developments of melodic ideas.
The music struck me here as beholden to the harmonically crunchy style of Neo-Classical Stravinsky.
Mr. Bell brought glowing sound and a beautifully reflective quality to the monologue-like violin writing of the first movement, and fleet, articulate grace to the racing Presto.
The fifth and final movement came across as a mercurial rondo that shifts from stretches of harmonically raw vehemence to subdued yet swinging passages that Mr. Bell, backed by Mr. Gilbert and the orchestra, played with an eerily spectral quality.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Bernstein was just 24 when he completed the Jeremiah Symphony.
In the first movement, Prophecy, Mr. Gilbert drew out all the cinematic colorings and weighty fervor of the music, which builds to bold, brassy climaxes, without ever letting it seem overblown.
In Profanation, the second movement, Mr. Gilbert teased out touches of sputtering Hebraic chant in music that on the surface seems buoyant and jazzy.
The mezzo-soprano Kelley OConnors mellow sound and restrained mournfulness were ideal for the anguished last movement, Bernsteins setting of passages from the Book of Lamentations.
During the ovation, Mr. Gilbert held up the score to the symphony: Bernstein, he was making clear, was the real star.
Advertisement #Speakingindance A Touch of Unrequited Love Mark Morris stages the tragic love story of Layla and Majnun; here the pair touch for the first time.
#SpeakingInDance is a weekly visual exploration of dance on Instagram.
Watch the video from our most recent post below, and follow us at @nytimes .
Photo Netflix has yet to make a major impact on the Oscars (witness Idris Elbas snub for the acclaimed 2015 drama Beasts of No Nation), but that may change with Mudbound, based on the powerful trailer that has just been released.
The film has earned raves on the festival circuit and from critics, who are quoted in the teaser.
Directed by Dee Rees (Pariah), the sprawling drama follows two families one white and one black in rural Mississippi during World War II and its aftermath.
Carey Mulligan, who earned an Oscar nomination for An Education (2009), stars as a farm wife caught between her husband (Jason Clarke) and his younger brother (Garrett Hedlund), a returning veteran.
The R&B singer Mary J. Blige, in whats said to be a breakout performance, plays a mother whose son (Jason Mitchell) is also a returning veteran who comes back from Europe only to encounter intransigent racism.
Ms. Rees, who along with Virgil Williams adapted Hillary Jordans novel, could become the first African-American woman nominated for best director at the Oscars.
(Ava DuVernay was passed over for the 2014 drama Selma.)
But Ms. Rees will have to overcome the perception that Mudbound is a made-for-TV movie, since it will be released simultaneously online and in theaters on Nov. 17.
Photo The Stratford Festival in Ontario, Canada, announced Wednesday that it has received its largest single donation, a pledge of 10 million Canadian dollars, or about $7.8 million, from its board chairman, Dan Bernstein, and his wife, Claire Foerster.
The donation is intended to help pay for a new theater space to replace the 46-year-old Tom Patterson Theater Center.
Dan and Claires remarkable gift is an incredible endorsement of the vision we have for the future of the Stratford Festival, said the festivals artistic director, Antoni Cimolino.
Photo Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Foerster are residents of Connecticut, where Mr. Bernstein is senior strategist and director of Bridgewater Associates, a hedge fund.
The Stratford Festival the largest nonprofit classical repertory theater in North America is an annual theater festival running from April to October and primarily dedicated to the work of William Shakespeare.
In 2016 it attracted over 500,000 visitors.
In addition to the pledge by Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Foerster, the government of Ontario has promised 20 million Canadian dollars for the project.
The Canadian federal government is reviewing a request from the festival for a similar amount.
The plans for the new theater, unveiled in August with a design by the Canadian architect Siamak Hariri, await approval from the city of Stratford; a City Council vote is expected by the end of November.
The festival estimates that the new theater will cost 60 million Canadian dollars, and a fund-raising campaign to meet that total and establish a fund for future operating costs is set to begin if the plans are approved.
With Halloween approaching, here are 3 books on the symbols, traditions and lore surrounding the spooky holiday.
Photo DEATH MAKES A HOLIDAY A Cultural History of Halloween By David J. Skal 224 pp.
Bloomsbury.
(2002) Skal is the author of a number of books on horror movies; in this one, he broadens his lens to concentrate not only on scary films, but also on the symbols (like cats, cobwebs and witches) and stories associated with Halloween.
He offers a history of the holiday, while also debunking urban legends like that of candy tampering, of which he only found two known lethal cases.
Skal also interviews a wide range of people with varying degrees of investment and interest in Halloween: businessmen for whom it serves as a ludicrous marketing opportunity, witches who view it as a sacred day, and religious individuals who consider it blasphemous.
Our reviewer said this book performs the heroic service of taking all the stuff in stores seriously, as instruments in the creation of a new unreligious holiday of some significance.
Photo GHOSTLAND An American History in Haunted Places By Colin Dickey 320 pp.
Viking.
(2016) This book analyzes not whether ghosts are real, but rather what our belief in them and in the so-called haunted places they inhabit say about our culture.
Dickey visits haunted houses across the United States, from Salem, Mass., to Reno, Nev., to examine what these places reveal about past social anxieties.
He argues that these ghost stories are, to varying degrees, a reflection of our relationship to issues like class tensions or slavery, pointing to examples like the unjust executions of witches in Salem or the tendency of employees in a Reno brothel to witness ghosts, which he attributes to the extreme stress of their working conditions.
Our reviewer called his work both intellectually intriguing and politically instructive.
Photo HAUNTED On Ghosts, Witches, Vampires, Zombies and Other Monsters of the Natural and Supernatural Worlds By Leo Braudy 306 pp.
Yale University Press.
(2016) In his review, Gregory Macguire wrote that the dizzying array of approaches he commands theological, historical, cultural, aesthetic and psychological makes Braudy the ideal person to write this book.
This taxonomy categorizes monsters of modernity into four categories: the monsters from nature (like King Kong), the created monster (like Frankenstein), the monster from within (like Mr. Hyde) and the monster from the past (like Dracula).
Braudy discusses how the Protestant rejection of the concept of purgatory gave rise to a belief that ghosts, with no other place to go, returned to roam the Earth.
He analyzes the historical rise of specters to explain how they have evolved and why.
It was a risk that went wrong: The moment Lucinda Childss recorded voice uttered the words, I feel the earth move, there were questions: What was Mr. Millepied thinking in using such identifiable music and in such a literal way?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A row of female dancers, some with bandannas tied around their faces like prisoners, crossed the stage with military precision.
David Hallberg, in the opening section called Tremor, spun his body around and whipped an arm like a windmill; with twisted movements, alternatively hard and silky, he seemed trapped by a nervous mind.
Misty Copeland ran across the stage and into his arms, but there was little romance in the air, just sculptural shapes embellished with random kicks and turns.
In the second movement, A Vision, Ms. Copeland was joined by Devon Teuscher and Hee Seo, along with the 12 other women who, at one point, sat in a semicircle while curving their torsos and extending and bending their arms in unison.
If this vision was to evoke some kind of female equality in the ballet world or elsewhere it felt incidental.
Photo In the final movement, The Work Begins, the staged darkened and three couples blazed through Mr. Millepieds influences: William Forsythe one moment, Twyla Tharp the next.
It would be wrong to leave out Justin Peck whose recent hit, The Times Are Racing, haunted the stage like a ghost.
That ballet is all about youth culture, protest and showing where change begins.
In I Feel the Earth Move, there was a sense that the dancers were in the process of rising up and banding together, but their anxiety and struggle had a superficial air, right up to the end when, in the flash of a strobe light, the dancers were caught in a midair leap.
There wasnt much deep choreographic interrogation in Mr. Millepieds other premiere, Counterpoint for Philip Johnson, either, but it didnt call for any.
This brief work, set to Steve Reichs Nagoya Marimba, took place with spectators standing on the theaters promenade during intermission.
Wearing sneakers just as with I Feel the Earth Move, the streetwear costumes were by Rag & Bone the dancers planted themselves on the balconies that snaked around the second, third and fourth wings.
The cast, 24 eager young men and women from Ballet Theaters apprentice program, Studio Company and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School, executed synchronized choreography that focused mainly on their arms and shoulders.
(Yes, that means more windmills.)
Even though their lower bodies were obscured, from time to time they rolled on their backs and jauntily hopped from toe to toe, as if they were living out their fantasies on their fire escapes.
It was a dance made for an Instagram age.
CHENGDU, China Standing under a phalanx of flashing blue lights, Masiwei gazed down at the sea of waving fans.
Cheers erupted as he threw his head back and called out to the hometown crowd.
Chengduuuu!
Just minutes later, the wiry rapper one-fourth of the four-man Chinese rap crew known as the Higher Brothers was stomping across the stage with his shirt off, tattoos out and short dreadlocks pulled back into a high ponytail.
At the other end of the stage, Dzknow, another Higher Brothers rapper, grabbed a fistful of cash and took aim, sending a flurry of fake bills raining down on the sweaty fans below.
It was a classic rapper move in a not-so-classic setting: a small hip-hop festival on the outskirts of the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu.
Proust wrote thousands of letters, but the project will focus on about 200 that he had written during the war years, including some to his younger brother, Robert, a surgeon who was mobilized during the conflict.
(Proust, weak and bedridden, never made it to the battlefront.)
And for those seeking more instant gratification, on Oct. 30, the fifth copy of the first five special-edition copies of Swanns Way the initial volume of the seven-volume Remembrance of Things Past will be auctioned at Sothebys in Paris.
Sothebys said Proust had dedicated the copy to Louis Brun, a director at ditions Grasset, the French publisher of his work, and that it had last appeared for auction in 1942.
Swanns Way was published on Nov. 8, 1913, and initially floundered before attracting wide acclaim and transforming Proust into a global literary star.
The cult of Proust remains as strong as ever, and any documents that shed light on the writer invariably attract his many ardent followers, Benot Puttemans, a books and manuscripts specialist at Sothebys in Paris, said by phone on Thursday.
In 2013, the last time one of the first five editions of Swanns Way went on sale, the first copy written on Japanese paper sold for $708,000 to a book dealer, before ending up in the collection of Pierre Berg, the co-founder of the fashion label Yves Saint Laurent who recently died.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The fifth copy, which Sothebys estimates could be sold for as much as $711,000, has generated particular attention because six letters by Proust setting out his strategy for marketing Swanns Way were bound by Mr. Brun at the back of the book.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The letters show that Proust wrote and collected breathless, adulatory reviews of his own work and then paid for them to be published in newspapers such as Le Figaro.
The letters reveal that the writer had an adeptness for self-promotion and public relations worthy of the future digital age.
All the more impressive, perhaps, he orchestrated the P.R.
operation from his sickbed.
Displaying an amour propre that appeared to know little bounds, Proust cited a review by his friend, the painter Jacques mile-Blanche, who had lauded Swanns Way as a little masterpiece and had written that like a gust of wind blows away the soporific vapors of the other works available on the literary marketplace.
Proust wrote his fawning letters in longhand and had them typed by his publisher in an apparent attempt to conceal their origin.
Invoking a review that had compared him to Dickens, Proust also cited Mr. mile-Blanches estimation that the book suggested the fourth dimension of the Cubists.
What Monsieur Proust sees and feels is completely original, Proust wrote, quoting Mr. mile-Blanche, and noting that his writing had been praised as almost too luminous for the eye.
Mr. Puttemans said the self-aggrandizement reflected the fact that Bernard Grasset, the publisher, had agreed to handle Swanns Way on the condition that Proust pay for its publication and promotion.
The book had already been rejected by other publishers, Mr. Puttemans explained, and Proust was determined to show its literary merit.
I wouldnt say Proust was narcissistic, as it was not so uncommon in that era for writers to write positive reviews of their own work, Mr. Puttemans said.
It was a cunning thing to do, but Proust had a large network and he used it in a very modern way.
He was ahead of his time.
Photo The J.C.C.
Manhattan on the Upper West Side will be renamed the Marlene Meyerson J.C.C.
in honor of a $20 million gift from the Meyerson Family Foundation, which is believed to be one of the largest donations ever made to a Jewish Community Center in the United States.
The foundation which made the donation in the name of Marlene Meyerson, a philanthropist who died earlier this year has also commissioned a site-specific artwork for the J.C.C.
by Jenny Holzer.
Photo To create the installation, the J.C.C.
will ask its members over the next several months to share their own words or quotes by others that address the question: What does community mean?
Ms. Holzer will choose a handful of these to chisel onto marble benches and stone plaques throughout the building on Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street.
Ms. Holzer will also incorporate hundreds of other such word contributions into a virtual piece of art that will map the buildings interior and exterior, as well as an augmented-reality smartphone app that will allow users to see the words as if they, too, were actually engraved.
The artwork will be unveiled at a naming ceremony in the spring.
The naming rights will revert to the J.C.C.
in 30 years.
Ms. Meyersons daughter, Marti, has supported the J.C.C.
for more than 20 years as a founder, board chairwoman and as an active member.
The building opened in 2002.
This gift enables us to secure our foundation, said Joy Levitt, the J.C.C.s executive director.
Were going to begin now to talk with our community about what their dreams are for the next 15 years.
Photo Wayne McGregor will make his choreographic debut at American Ballet Theater next spring with a new setting of Stravinskys The Rite of Spring, the company announced on Thursday.
Mr. McGregors work, Afterite, will have its premiere on May 21 at Ballet Theaters spring gala, ushering in the annual Metropolitan Opera House season, May 14 through July 7 at Lincoln Center.
Afterite is his first dance for Ballet Theater, but Mr. McGregors work has been around New York in recent years: He has a piece, Outlier, in repertory at New York City Ballet; Tree of Codes, his collaboration with Olafur Eliasson and Jamie xx, was at the Park Avenue Armory in 2015; and the Royal Ballet, where he is the resident choreographer, performed Infra when the company visited in 2015.
The Ballet Theater gala performance will also include excerpts from Alexei Ratmanskys Harlequinade, a new production that Ballet Theater announced earlier this year.
On other nights, Afterite will be on a double bill with Firebird, Mr. Ratmanskys 2012 setting of the classic Stravinsky score.
Photo Harlequinade will have its premiere on June 4.
The two-act comic ballet, Mr. Ratmanskys latest staging informed by studying historical dance notations, follows the original by Marius Petipa in 1900.
(Other Ratmansky ballets in this vein have included The Sleeping Beauty at Ballet Theater and Swan Lake in Europe.)
Repertory story ballets for the season include Giselle, which on May 18 will feature the guest artist Natalia Osipova, a star of the Royal Ballet in London, performing opposite David Hallberg.
The other works are La Bayadre, Romeo and Juliet, Swan Lake, Don Quixote and Mr. Ratmanskys beloved Whipped Cream, which had its premiere last spring.
Photo The sin of poor comedic timing is almost an unpardonable one.
Kevin Tent, Alexander Paynes longtime editor, has worked on some of that directors funniest movies, including Sideways and the forthcoming Downsizing.
Yet Mr. Tents directorial debut, Crash Pad, indicates this artist has more to learn about his new craft.
Crash Pad follows a millennial slacker and self-professed romantic, Stensland (Domhnall Gleeson), in the depths of heartbreak after the end of his fling with a married woman, Morgan (Christina Applegate).
After binge-watching episodes of Dawsons Creek and trying to blackmail his former flame, Stensland receives an unusual proposal from Morgans husband, Grady (Thomas Haden Church from Sideways).
The two men become roommates in a bid to make Morgan jealous while they mend their bruised feelings with women and cheap tequila.
The movies premise isnt as bad as the forced, unnatural dialogue.
Even the reliable Ms. Applegate and Mr. Church cant salvage the screenwriter Jeremy Catalinos clumsy lines.
Morgans faithlessness has emboldened me to take a vacation, Grady declares when moving into Stenslands apartment.
Saddled with the wordiest scenes in the movie, Mr. Gleeson comes across like a college freshman fumbling through his first Shakespeare play.
Stensland and Gradys romantic plight might have earned more sympathy if their characters werent so insufferable.
While Mr. Tents direction is serviceable, its safe.
His movie lacks any stylish risks that would make this trios bad romance memorable, leaving Crash Pad to feel like a warm-up act.
Photo What do you seek?
What do you desire?
a young woman named Cathleen is asked as she prepares to take religious vows.
Even though the questions are part of a centuries-old ritual, Novitiate, written and directed by Maggie Betts, takes their content seriously and understands that they are not synonymous.
What Sister Cathleen (Margaret Qualley) and her fellow novices aspire to become does not always align with what they want in their hearts.
Though they feel themselves called to a life of sacrifice, seclusion and austerity, that vocation often expresses itself with a passion that can be unsettling.
It is not just about loving God, but about being in love with him.
Eros and Agape, the worldly and spiritual manifestations of love, are not always easily separated.
Cathleen Harris arrives at the Sisters of Blessed Rose monastery in 1964, when she is 17.
Even though the Vatican II reforms initiated by Pope John XXIII are bringing radical changes to the Roman Catholic Church, they have yet to reach the quiet hillside where the sisters live, almost entirely cut off from the rest of the world.
Cathleen, educated in a Catholic girls school in Tennessee, is leaving a family situation sketched in a few baldly over-dramatized scenes.
Her tomcatting father (Chris Zylka) comes home drunk and angry and then leaves altogether.
Cathleens mother, Nora (Julianne Nicholson), an occasional churchgoer, smokes and swears and sleeps around and is utterly mystified by the intensity of her daughters faith.
Photo Novitiate veers between subtlety and its opposite, which is personified mainly by Melissa Leos abbess.
An autocrat with a sadistic streak, the reverend mother enforces harsh discipline and seems to enjoy humiliating her young charges.
She brooks no dissent and finds herself in conflict both with an independent-minded underling (Dianna Agron) and with the modernizing archbishop (Denis OHare).
Another side of the reverend mothers personality an intense religious devotion entwined with a quasi-feminist, anti-authoritarian streak emerges late in the film, but rather than reveal the characters complexity it undermines the storys coherence.
The movie is on surer, more interesting ground when it explores Cathleens inner life, her daily routines, and the camaraderie and rivalry that emerge among the novices.
Discouraged from forming close friendships that might distract from their primary devotion, the young women, mostly still teenagers, behave in some of the usual ways for girls of their age.
They gossip and share confidences and break rules carelessly or brazenly, all the while grappling, as most adolescents do, with deep and murky questions of identity.
Video Their reasons for joining the order are as various as their temperaments.
One cites Audrey Hepburn in The Nuns Story as a primary inspiration.
Novitiate avoids both the laundered piety of that movie and the sensationalism that hovers around the subject of women and religion.
At least since the 18th century, the depiction of nuns and convents in literature has often tended toward the Gothic or the pornographic, fed by anticlerical and anti-Catholic ideology as well as by fantasies about female sexuality.
There is certainly cruelty in Novitiate, and lust as well.
In her desk drawer, the reverend mother keeps a small whip made of knotted rope, called the discipline, that the sisters may borrow to use on themselves.
Cathleens spiritual hunger her need to be loved and worthy of love, her longing for comfort as well as sacrifice brings its share of anguish, shame and confusion.
Ms. Qualleys performance, and those of some of the supporting cast, notably Morgan Saylor and Rebecca Dayan, convey the difficulties these women face.
Ms. Betts refrains from easy, uplifting answers and facile condemnations of organized religion.
Aided by Kat Westergaards warm, restrained cinematography, she takes the viewer close to an understanding of Cathleens evolving sense of her relationship with God.
At any given time, the club was a dance hall, a screening room, a watering hole, a theater lab, an art gallery, or a self-styled let it all hang out encounter group, Ann Magnuson writes in MoMAs Club 57 exhibition catalog.
Sometimes it was all those things at once.
Photo That interdisciplinary spirit had painters making music, musicians making sculptures, sculptors acting in plays, and actors tossing their scripts in favor of improvised performances, or as Keith Haring called the evenings he organized, Acts of Live Art.
Case in point: Min Thometz, a freshly arrived graduate of a high school in Minnesota, who began bartending at Club 57 when she wasnt also stepping out mid-shift to act in a play or perform in Pulsallama, an all-female 13-member percussion ensemble.
We were all about being very silly at Club 57, she said in a recent phone interview, which made for a purposely stark contrast with the similarly artist-heavy crowd at TriBeCas Mudd Club, which was more about fashion, about being cool.
We were about wearing costumes and having theme parties.
Indeed, her own Bongo Voodoo party ended with dead chickens being flung around, a raging bonfire in the middle of the clubs floor, and her future husband Oliver Sanchez passing out on her turntables as she was D.J.-ing, a novel twist on a meet-cute story.
Yet indoor fires and flying poultry were the least of the worries for a club that never had a liquor license.
Letters from Mr. Strychackis archives show the Holy Cross parishs bishop, John Jakubik, tirelessly intervening on Club 57s behalf with a string of judges and government agencies.
In 1981, when frustrated neighbors finally hired a lawyer to help shut down the club after repeated police summons for noise violations, Bishop Jakubik patiently informed him that Club 57 is the youth circle of our church Please try to understand that the East Village is not the best of areas and our parish hall is the only place where our youth can socialize under supervision.
Photo Sleep-deprived neighbors on St. Marks Place werent the only ones fixating on Club 57.
The art world was taking notice as well.
New collectors began arriving, pumping money into a previously moribund market.
With them came a burst of fresh galleries throughout the East Village a handful in 1981, over a hundred by 1985.
The downtown art world, centered around academia and small government grants, had previously seemed separated by a chasm from free-spending buyers.
No longer.
As checkbooks opened and media attention skyrocketed, it suddenly looked like artists could have it all.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill never forget what Jean-Michel said to me one night, Mr. Sanchez said, recalling a walk home from the club.
Ill learn to draw later.
First I want to get famous.
His work was already good, but he was so astute in his strategy.
His plan was to charm his way into the right circles.
And it absolutely worked!
There was this mad rush to cash in, Mr. Scharf said.
It stopped being as fun as people became competitive with each other.
He includes himself.
For the 1983 Whitney Biennial, Keith and Jean-Michel were in it, and I wasnt.
Which freaked me out!
Part of his solution was a pre-internet social media campaign: I started spray painting my Hanna-Barbera post-nuclear-holocaust mutant characters like Wilma Flintstone with a snake body all up and down the East Side, from the 59th Street Bridge to the East Village.
I had no idea who the curators for the 1985 Whitney Biennial were, but I figured they would at least know my work.
Photo Mully isnt much in the way of cinema.
But its courageous subject makes this documentarys shortcomings easier to overlook.
Charles Mully was born in Kenya and abandoned by his family at 6; he later stole and begged on the streets.
Through the generosity of strangers, hard work and some prayer, he not only found a job but became wealthy by running several companies, including a bus service and oil and gas ventures.
To the surprise of his wife and eight children, Mr. Mully one day decided to give up business and devote his resources to Nairobis orphans.
He turned his residence into a shelter, moving in dozens of homeless Kenyans (while sending some of his own children away to boarding schools).
Later he built an orphanage that has housed and fed thousands; a farm there is dedicated to environmentally friendly agriculture.
Scott Haze, the director, is eager to inspire.
Interviews show Mr. Mully to be resolute, and his family kindhearted.
Yet the films tone sometimes turns repetitive.
In one short section, a few orphans tell of their lives before meeting Mr. Mully.
Their brutal recollections are essential to hear, but Mr. Haze hurriedly retreats from those and other harsh topics.
Just as vexing, redundant voice-overs describe what is being shown; while Mr. Mully speaks of events, scripted scenes re-enact them.
Mully nods toward its subjects religious faith but refrains from preachiness.
Mr. Mullys actions speak for themselves, and his robust personality makes him a pleasure to listen to.
If the film doesnt always dig deeply into this mans life, we still see the results of his efforts.
Those are enough to admire.
Photo All I See Is You is halfway through before something resembling a plot kicks in, and even then this limp, shape-shifting psychodrama proves unable to sell it with anything approaching coherence.
Yet the director, Marc Forster (who wrote the script with Sean Conway), fashions such a languid, tipsy aesthetic around the seemingly happy marriage of Gina and James (Blake Lively and Jason Clarke) that its easy to keep watching.
Legally blind since childhood, Gina rarely leaves their home in Bangkok, relying almost entirely on the attentive James.
But when a cornea transplant restores vision to one eye, Gina discovers that her life is not quite as she imagined.
Nor is she.
New erotic interests surface during a trip to Spain, where the hypersexualized marriage of her sister and brother-in-law nudges the film into seamier territory and prompts a change in Ginas appearance.
As James becomes increasingly destabilized by his wifes transformation, the movie seems keen to linger over what can happen to a relationship when a previously dependent partner gains agency.
Video Instead, were hastened toward a nonsensical, almost illegible ending that lays waste to all this careful mood-setting.
Ms. Lively is well cast, gracefully patrolling the boundary of her limited range, with Mr. Clarke less steady in the more amorphous role of someone who seems a bit off from the outset.
And though the milky visual disruptions that signal Ginas initially blurry view of the world are overdone, theres something seductive about her journey that cries out for a filmmaker like Nicolas Roeg.
In his hands, the haze of sex and danger that surrounds these two might have been revealed as more than just a tease.
Photo The most relevant movie precursor to Thank You for Your Service, an earnest and powerful drama about Iraq veterans returning to Kansas, is not The Hurt Locker, or the well-meaning but toothless coming-home dramas released during the Bush years (Stop-Loss, The Lucky Ones), or even American Sniper, written by Jason Hall, who wrote the screenplay for this film, his feature directing debut.
Its Of Men and War, a 2015 documentary shot at the Pathway Home in Yountville, Calif., a center designed to reacclimate veterans to civilian life and also where one of the characters in Thank You for Your Service winds up.
Of Men and War demanded that viewers witness the psychic scars of fighting, measuring them as part of wars cost along with the dead and more visibly wounded.
Mr. Hall, working in a more sentimental, multiplex-friendly mode, makes the same point here.
The movie is partly adapted from the well-received 2013 book by The Washington Posts David Finkel, who followed survivors of a battalion he had chronicled in an earlier book.
Working freehandedly, Mr. Hall contrives motivations and friendships for dramatic effect.
(One of the main three returning soldiers in the movie, played by Joe Cole, who arrives in Kansas only to learn that his fiance has left him, has been added to the mix.)
Video The central protagonist is Adam Schumann (Miles Teller, convincingly tough), who still instinctively scans American roadsides for bombs just as he did in Iraq.
He has missed crucial time with his wife (Haley Bennett, whose character and performance go beyond sympathetic-wife clichs) and young children.
He is haunted by two incidents for which he feels responsible: his imperfect rescue of a comrade shot in the head, seen in a prologue, and another death, revealed only gradually, that left his wifes friend Amanda Doster (Amy Schumer, in a successfully counterintuitive bit of casting) a widow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The other principal character is Tausolo Aeiti (Beulah Koale, a newcomer), who suffers from crippling memory loss that hampers daily functioning.
As with Adam, part of Tausolos trouble is admitting his problems to himself.
The movie argues that the military stifles such breakthroughs on two fronts: first with a culture that encourages stoicism, second with a failure to provide prompt medical care for veterans.
Striving for the elusive goal of political neutrality, Mr. Hall has made a less jingoistic film than American Sniper (in the combat sequences, villainous Iraqis have been replaced with faceless ones).
Instead, Thank You for Your Service is a macho weepie, whose message that wars are permanent for those who fight in them has broad appeal.
Photo In Flicit, Vro Tshanda Beya Mputu plays the title character, a singer and single mother in Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The movie opens in a lively bar, full of gyrating, intoxicated folk, whom Flicit and the band entertain all night with infectious songs filled with blue notes.
(The music is provided by the well-regarded Kasai Allstars.)
The next day, shes got troubles with her refrigerator and negotiations with a local handyman.
Then, some bad news: Her teenage son has been grievously injured in a motorbike accident.
He needs an immediate and immediately paid-for operation.
In an ordinary movie this would set off a race-against-the-clock scenario.
But Flicit, written and directed by the Franco-Senegalese filmmaker Alain Gomis, is an unconventional treatment of an emergency.
At crucial junctures in Flicits desperate scramble to raise funds for her sons medical care, Mr. Gomis, who wrote the screenplay with Olivier Loustau and Delphine Zingg, expands time instead of compressing it.
Flicit still has her job to do, after all.
This movie aspires to depict real life, not life as cinema is often inclined to idealize it; by the same token, it is hardly a work of naturalism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Gomiss cinematic style is spectacularly multifaceted.
The camerawork and cutting often have the fleetness of a documentary, but theres nothing sloppy about them.
(The cinematography is by Cline Bozon, the editing by Fabrice Rouaud and the director.)
Photo The main takeaway from the prison-therapy documentary The Work (besides the fact that watching grown men scream and grovel is not for the fainthearted), is that crime in this country could be drastically reduced if only more fathers were around to raise their sons.
That may seem a simplistic, even flippant conclusion.
But hearing inmate after inmate describe an absent or emotionally withholding father as the source of his mental anguish renders it also an inescapable one.
Set mainly in a single, stone-walled room in Folsom State Prison in California, this fly-on-the-wall study by Jairus McLeary and Gethin Aldous follows three variously troubled non-inmates over four days of intense group therapy with a passel of maximum-security convicts.
Video Opening an aperture into a process so ego-stripping that it feels unseemly to witness, The Work is enlightening yet also punishing.
Even more disturbing than one of the crimes described and the near-constant background howls is the convicts willingness to bare their souls for the nosing-around camera.
Some offenders have been attending these sessions (run by an admirable nonprofit dedicated to inmates personal growth) for years, and the brothers-in-arms lingo of the 12-step program flows easily.
The mens wrenching revelations and raging breakdowns appear brave and genuine; but how far can we trust behavior that at some point could be factored into parole decisions?
For one quiet outside visitor, warily watching these agonized displays, the pressure to follow suit is palpable.
I didnt come here looking to cry, he says, and I dont want to feel like Im letting them down if I dont.
His guardedness is the movies most relatable moment.
Photo If its startling that the 19th Amendment, which enshrined womens voting rights across the United States, is less than 100 years old, The Divine Order is set in Switzerland, where the equivalent constitutional amendment establishing the right for women to vote at the federal level didnt pass until 1971.
The Divine Order examines that fight for womens suffrage in a microcosm.
Directed by Petra Volpe, the film is set in a conservative Swiss town that has gone largely insulated from the spirit of the swinging 60s.
(To judge from the films grayish look, the locality has even escaped the decades tie-dyed palette.)
The movie centers on Nora (Marie Leuenberger), who, like most of the towns women, has been cowed into keeping her opinions to herself.
The more we push, the more the men do what they want, she tells a pamphleteer encouraging approval of the referendum.
Noras days consist of caring for her children, indulging her proudly retrograde father-in-law and yearning to take a job that would break the monotony.
If Noras name werent enough of a nod to Ibsen, her husband, Hans (Max Simonischek), addresses her as my little bird.
But soon Nora is moved to act.
Noras rebellious teenage niece (Ella Rumpf) is sent to reform school and then, after she runs away, to prison.
Nora reads up on the inequities of Swiss marriage law.
A small act of defiance against the towns leading female anti-suffrage finger-wagger (Therese Affolter) wins her an ally in a feisty widow (Sibylle Brunner), and soon an Italian restaurant owner (Marta Zoffoli) joins them.
Their growing movement culminates in a strike that brings the town to a halt.
Taking a middlebrow, mildly rollicking approach to a serious subject, The Divine Order doesnt exactly break new ground.
It goes for easy laughs, like a scene in which the women attend a workshop led by a Swedish guru who teaches them a better appreciation of their anatomy.
The composer, Annette Focks, supplies an array of insistent Spielbergian music cues, and the film hinges on a pair of big-speech scenes.
Still, The Divine Order effectively illustrates how peer pressure can influence the political process.
Collective silence, whether its from women unwilling to publicly press for their rights or men afraid to voice agreement with their wives for fear of looking weak around co-workers, proves more of an obstacle than any opponent.
That message gives Ms. Volpes lark a timely edge.
Photo In the film Bill Nye: Science Guy, Mr. Nye, the 1990s childrens-television personality with the signature bow tie, warns of an anti-science movement afoot in this country.
And this delightful, revealing documentary, directed by David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, offers evidence supporting that assessment.
Mr. Nye, who left his Emmy-winning series after around 100 episodes, has embraced a new mission: educating an older generation as he champions space exploration and challenges creationists and climate-change deniers.
In TV clips, Sarah Palin impugns Mr. Nyes credentials, and an Obama-era Donald J. Trump declares, Our president is worried about global warming what a ridiculous situation.
Joe Bastardi, the former chief long-range forecaster at AccuWeather and a frequent Fox News guest, insists that extreme weather is merely meteorological variation, not the result of human-caused global warming.
(Mr. Nye is polite but resolute as he argues with Mr. Bastardi during a visit to his home.)
As we stand here, the Juno spacecraft just went into orbit around Jupiter, Mr. Nye says.
Its an extraordinary accomplishment of engineering and rocket science.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Here is anti-science, he adds, gesturing in the direction of the Kentucky tourist attractions the Creation Museum and Ark Encounter, whose exhibits present such sights as prehistoric humans cohabiting, Flintstone-like, with dinosaurs, and a sauropod (a dinosaur species) dwelling on Noahs ark.
Mr. Nye debates the museums chief executive, Ken Ham, on a stage, though his efforts only galvanize Mr. Hams supporters.
The documentary also follows Mr. Nyes work as chief executive of the Planetary Society, as he collaborates with the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson and spearheads the LightSail project (a small spacecraft powered by photons from the sun), a tribute to Mr. Nyes mentor Carl Sagan.
And it accompanies Mr. Nye to Greenland, where he witnesses melting ice caps and ice-core studies revealing climate temperatures of centuries past and our fossil-fuel-poisoned present.
Since taking the helm at Dia in 2015, Ms. Morgan has been envisioning a different status quo for the institution, which had long skewed heavily male.
When she arrived, there were only a handful of female artists, including Agnes Martin and Hanne Darboven, in the permanent collection.
Championing the presence of women on the staff and in exhibitions and acquisitions, Ms. Morgan in her short tenure has already made considerable strides toward the gender rebalancing of Dia.
She has put together an entirely female curatorial team, including the new deputy director and chief curator, Courtney J. Martin, a 1960s specialist hired away from Brown University, and the associate curator Alexis Lowry, whose focus is on land art.
Photo The British-born director, 49, has initiated exhibitions primarily of female artists like Charlotte Posenenske and Jolle Tuerlinckx in addition to Ms. McBride.
And Ms. Morgan has begun a strategic long-term plan to acquire large bodies of work by women made contemporaneously with that by men already well represented at Dia, including John Chamberlain, Fred Sandback, Michael Heizer and Bruce Nauman.
In Beacon, a large part of what Ive been doing is expanding the collection, staying explicitly within this period of the 60s and 70s where we have this incredible depth and strength, but thinking about the omissions, said Ms. Morgan, who in her previous job as a curator at Tate Modern in London had become passionate about collection building as a way of grounding her institution.
Were placing female artists working at that time alongside their peers where they should be.
Immersive displays of works from the 60s and 70s by Joan Jonas, Jo Baer, Anne Truitt and Michelle Stuart have been on view at Beacon and are now part of the collection.
New acquisitions by Dorothea Rockburne and Mary Corse will be installed in the early months of 2018.
Photo Given the tight focus of the collection, now numbering just over 40 artists, the addition of even several women is noticeable.
Truitt was making these radical minimal forms with sculpture and painting combined in 1961, just at the same time as Judd and Flavin, Ms. Morgan said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Michelle Stuart was as much there as Michael Heizer was, she said of these two pioneers of land art.
Lets tell people about that.
These additions start to break down the monolithic reading of minimalism, said Donna De Salvo, deputy director for international initiatives and senior curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art.
In the early 1980s, she was the curator at Dia when the institution had zero women in its collection which, she pointed out, was not unusual for museums at the time.
I have great respect for what Dias been historically, said Ms. De Salvo, describing how its support of visionary projects like De Marias Lightning Field in western New Mexico and Judds Chinati Foundation in Marfa, Tex., and the presentation of art in large-scale environments on view for a substantial period of time are something quite different than what a museum often can provide.
Im always looking for the Dia I knew but also the Dia that I felt could be more, she said.
Jessicas honored Dias legacy yet shes added some extraordinary artists in a very targeted way.
It really shows a much truer picture of how those ideas were interpreted by a variety of different figures, both women and more international artists.
The way I try to preach is the way I tried to write this book, Mr. Lentz said, his words dancing with a hint of the South, carried through from Virginia Beach where he was raised.
Im going to preach straight, and hopefully open a wide enough door that even if you dont believe what I believe, you can glean something from it.
Photo Own the Moment is essentially written like a collection of sermons; Mr. Lentz said he constructed it so that each chapter is a stand-alone, the better to reach people who are not inclined to read a 300-page book.
It is chatty rather than polished and occasionally hokey, populated by entertaining allegories and regular flashes of humor.
There is a sprinkling of Scripture, but the text is not openly paved with it, and it is possible to forget at times that the book is written by a preacher.
Until he reminds you that he believes that premarital sex is not remotely optional, regardless of how many people try to say otherwise.
Mr. Lentz said that his previous writing experience came in the form of sermons and really long Instacaptions.
He has more than half a million followers on Instagram, who are treated to pictures of his wife, Laura, who is also a lead pastor at Hillsong NYC, and their three children, along with the occasional shot with Oprah Winfrey or Justin Bieber.
The book also contains a small clutch of big names.
Mr. Lentz tells a story about baptizing Mr. Bieber in a custom bathtub belonging to Mr. Chandler, who is 7-foot-1.
Mr. Lentz also includes that he baptized Kevin Durant in a swimming pool.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Richard Flory, the senior director of research at the University of Southern Californias Center for Religion and Civic Culture, said that evangelicals have a long history of hitching their Christianity to famous people as a way of drawing in congregants and making believers feel validated.
Billy Graham had ties to Ronald Reagan, while the athlete Tim Tebow, the former action movie star Chuck Norris and the actor Kirk Cameron, have all been visible about their faith.
That kind of celebrity culture weaves through evangelicalism really from the early 20th century, Mr. Flory said.
Heres this enormously successful person, and they believe like I do.
But some have criticized Hillsong as too enamored of celebrity, a complaint Mr. Lentz appears eager to pre-empt in the Disclaimers section at the beginning of the book, where he says he hopes to harness the star power for something redemptive and meaningful.
Indeed, Hillsong has plenty of critics on either side of the aisle.
There are those on the left who regard it as insufficiently open-minded on social issues, and those on the right who describe the churchs theology as thin and say it strays too far from Christian orthodoxy.
There isnt a great deal of historical Christianity or explicit theological content in their worship, said R. Albert Mohler Jr., the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary.
I think there is a determined effort on the part of these churches, he continued, referring to Hillsong and others, to avoid dealing with hard theological questions that might offend people.
Critics notwithstanding, the church has been growing fast.
Mr. Lentz said it has 9,000 or 10,000 congregants in its 7-year-old New York City congregation and about 100,000 worldwide.
It also draws a lot of young people and a fair amount of racial diversity, which many American churches struggle to do.
Observers say that Hillsong has stayed largely on the periphery of charged social battles, walking a delicate line as evangelicals running churches in liberal American cities like Los Angeles and San Francisco.
Church leaders appear to have tried to create a welcoming environment for gay people, for example, without actually coming out in support of gay marriage.
But Mr. Lentz has spoken out on issues of race in the past, and he devotes a chapter to it in his book called If Youre Racist and You Know It, Clap Your Hands.
Mr. Lentz said that Opal Tometi, one of the founders of the Black Lives Matter movement, was a part of his church for several years.
Racially speaking, are things better?
he writes.
Yes.
But that statement is like saying, If you have been shot 10 times before and recently have only been stabbed five times, are you in better shape?
The issue is constant attack, not different types of pain.
Photo Sitting backstage at the Hammerstein Ballroom preparing to give his sermon, Mr. Lentz said that while he long planned to write a book, and hopes that this is the first of many, this felt like an important moment to join the public conversation.
"Theres some stuff thats really basic to me that I feel is in jeopardy right now, like decency, awareness, humanity.
Stuff that shouldnt be complicated is complicated, he said.
I feel like the national climate has made it more urgent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A few minutes later, he covered his tattoos and the frayed sleeves of his T-shirt with a blazer, walked out onstage into a flood of music and preached.
I was so annoyed by his challenge, said Mr. Murakami, who had first seen the Shohaku image reproduced in Professor Tsujis 1970 book Lineage of Eccentrics tracing the wild originality of six artists from the Edo period (1615-1868), a volume that Mr. Murakami had found inspirational as a young artist.
I decided to place a bind on myself and just do the whole thing in one go within 24 hours, Mr. Murakami said, eliminating the process of meticulously designing and going straight to the canvas as if I were drunk.
Photo Mr. Murakamis Dragon in Clouds Red Mutation mimics the sweet google-eyed personality and physical dynamism of Shohakus dragon and his splashing of pigment against the surface of the paper, so different from Mr. Murakamis sleek trademark hard-edge forms.
Takashi has interpreted this in a very expressionistic way that I find tremendously exciting, said Ms. Morse, who collaborated with Professor Tsuji for over a decade in cataloging the museums thousands of objects of Japanese art, including the Shohaku collection.
Takashi sees himself as a spiritual heir following on Shohaku, she added.
While Mr. Murakami finds his dragon embarrassing technically, he said, it led me to approach my own limit and begin making this series of massively scaled paintings that without my communication with Professor Tsuji would not have happened.
Photo He is less disparaging of his 82-foot-long 2014 painting In the Land of the Dead, Stepping on the Tail of a Rainbow, a hallucinogenic landscape of figures and black skulls swept up in a tsunami of roiling water that is on view at the Broad museum in Los Angeles.
Many studies for the painting are shown in Boston.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That painting I feel is one answer I can give to Professor Tsuji, said Mr. Murakami, to show him that I humbly received the Lineage of Eccentrics, digested it myself and added something that is completely different from what I received.
Mr. Tsuji called it a great honor to be a part of this creativity as an art historian.
Through the magazine project which was filled with drama, unpredictability and nonsense, he said, I realized Murakamis genius, rare in an artist, in which he is able to assimilate wide knowledge from others and incorporate it into his works.
Photo Mr. Murakamis deep dive into his own Japanese heritage was a way of addressing a kind of identity crisis, said Michael Darling, who organized the artists recent retrospective The Octopus Eats Its Own Leg at the Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago.
He had reached this apex in his career around 2007, but I think it worried him and made him question why he was making art, said Mr.
Darling, whose exhibition traced the artists arc from smooth plasticized figures to mythical beasts and monks rendered craggy and gnarled and at gigantic scale.
It was the most highly attended show in the Chicago museums history and opens at the Vancouver Art Gallery next year.
Without saying that Murakami wasnt interesting before, which I dont believe, Mr.
Darling added, I do think that his relationship with Professor Tsuji has had a real noticeable impact on his career and his development.
The show at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston highlights works directly and generally inspirational to Mr. Murakami.
He made an almost one-to-one copy of the conical lotus-shape base supporting a late-10th, early-11th century Buddha in the museums collection and used it to prop up his own Buddha interpreted as an animation character in his sculpture Oval Buddha Silver (2008).
Mr. Murakamis golden multipanel Kawaii vacances (Summer Vacation in the Kingdom of the Golden) (2008), populated with a field of smiling flower faces, echoes the dazzling ornamentation of poppies on a gold ground in a 17th-century screen by the school of Tawaraya Sotatsu.
In a large-scale work commissioned especially for this show, Mr. Murakami aims to please his teacher.
It incorporates the eccentric depiction of natural phenomena, including a direct reference to Shohakus screen Transcendent Attacking a Whirlwind (circa 1764) where a tornado resembles a serpents coiled tail.
Speaking while the piece was still in progress, Mr. Murakami confessed that it has been very difficult and he had not yet succeeded.
I want to show Professor Tsuji that I have been studying all he have given me, he said.
Im hoping this work to be that.
Photo Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep and lets us get paid to watch comedy.
What do you think of it?
What else are you interested in?
Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
What Counts as a Love Fest?
President Trump on Wednesday tweeted about his meeting the previous day with Senate Republicans, which happened immediately after Senators Bob Corker and Jeff Flake made searing public statements criticizing Mr. Trump.
He framed the meeting as an unqualified success, but on The Tonight Show, Jimmy Fallon wasnt buying it.
Trump was tweeting again today.
He said that his big meeting with Republican senators was a love fest with multiple standing ovations.
They were mostly people getting up to leave, but still, that counts as a standing ovation.
JIMMY FALLON Trump sent three tweets about how the senators gave him a standing ovation.
Its a big deal for Trump: He hasnt seen 50 people cheering him on since his inauguration.
JIMMY FALLON Samantha Bee Dishes on Climate Change Samantha Bee focused this weeks entire episode of Full Frontal on the extreme weather conditions that have rocked many parts of the country in recent weeks.
She said they were a reminder of the threat posed by human-driven climate change, and she trained a great deal of her ire on Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency and a longtime critic of environmental regulations.
Putting Pruitt in charge of the E.P.A.
was like putting the fox in the henhouse.
Im sorry for future viewers, foxes and hens were two animals that lived on earth before climate change rendered them extinct.
SAMANTHA BEE The Punchiest Punchlines (Airport Security Edition) A new poll has found that 51 percent of Democrats now have a favorable view of former President George W. Bush.
And that makes sense: Id also have a favorable view of the flu if I suddenly found myself with the plague.
SETH MEYERS There are some new airport security measures starting this week, and airlines can conduct short interviews with passengers.
Most airlines will ask the purpose of your trip, while Spirit Airlines will ask if you know how to land a plane.
JIMMY FALLON The Bits Worth Watching If the United States Postal Service starts using self-driving trucks, this guy will be pretty happy about it.
The Late Show opened with a skit about the sweltering opening game of the World Series.
What Were Excited About on Thursday Night Julianne Moore, who stars in the new thriller Suburbicon, will talk to Stephen Colbert on Thursday.
Also, Check This Out Photo Looking for a scary movie to watch this Halloween?
Here are some options you can stream.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
Photo Ashley Judd tells Diane Sawyer about her encounters with Harvey Weinstein.
And a fabled family hunts vampires on Syfy.
Whats on TV GOOD MORNING AMERICA 7 a.m. on ABC.
Ashley Judd played a pivotal role in the downfall of Harvey Weinstein as one of the first and most prominent women to accuse him of sexual harassment.
Women have been talking about Harvey amongst ourselves for a long time, and its simply beyond time to have the conversation publicly, she told The New York Times this month.
On Thursday, she gives her first TV interview on the subject with Diane Sawyer; segments will run starting on Good Morning America and will continue on World News Tonight With David Muir (6:30 p.m.) and Nightline (12:30 a.m.).
30 FOR 30: THE DAY THE SERIES STOPPED (2014) 8 p.m. on ESPN2.
On Friday the World Series between the Dodgers and Astros will shift to Houston, with that city looking for a lift after Hurricane Harvey.
Thursdays 30 for 30 rerun examines another natural disaster that hit a baseball-crazed city: the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, which struck the Bay Area as its teams the San Francisco Giants and the Oakland Athletics warmed up for Game 3 of the World Series.
The documentary recounts stories from players, officials, and the people of San Francisco and Oakland after the earthquake killed dozens and caused a 10-day delay in the series.
Photo VAN HELSING 9 p.m. on Syfy.
In a post-apocalyptic world, Kelly Overton hunts vampires as Vanessa Van Helsing, the last remaining member of that fabled family.
On Thursday, she encounters vampires who use particularly gruesome methods on their prey.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story HOW TO GET AWAY WITH MURDER 10 p.m. on ABC.
You could fill hours and hours of therapy sessions analyzing the fraught relationship between Annalise (Viola Davis) and her former subordinate Bonnie (Liza Weil).
As Bonnies suspicions about Annalises motives grow, the show flashes back to the beginnings of the pairs long and complicated history, which recently led to a tense parking lot altercation.
A flash forward reveals the surprising whereabouts of one of the Keating 4.
SECRET LIVES OF THE SUPER RICH 10 p.m. on CNBC.
Its voyeurism at its finest: Peek inside the $50 million Plaza penthouse of Tommy Hilfiger.
His toxic ambition seemed driven mostly by his even more toxic wife, by her demands and his need to meet them.
But his devotion to Elliot (really Mr.
Robot), one-sided though it might have been, suggests that what he mostly craves is someone with answers to tell him what to do.
Never a vision guy, Wellicks more comfortable taking someone elses plan and maniacally dedicating himself to it hes a slick suit full of avarice waiting to be directed.
In this he was like a human embodiment of a corpocracy that instinctively claims the work and spoils of actual visionaries for itself think the fsociety gear for sale a couple weeks ago, or E Corp trying to ride the 5/9 hack to global currency dominance.
But Wellick is clearly emotionally invested, too, at times to a sloppy extent.
(Subtext, you know?
Mr.
Robot said, shushing his professions of love in the arcade flashback.)
Hes almost as eager to worship Elliot as he is Joanna, his affection seemingly stemming from the fact that each gave him a sort of purpose.
The X-factor is, Wellick is also not entirely right in the head thats where the possibly insane dimension comes in, though its not clear if his is of the DSM-recognized variety, like Elliots, or some vaguer flavor of narratively useful TV crazy.
Whatever his damage, the apparent suggestion, in the nervy interrogation scene, that it derives from some rage, shame or fear over his father fell a little flat.
(I think I preferred the enigma.)
It called back to the contempt for his father he previously expressed to Elliot and obviously is of a piece with the daddy issues that drive Mr.
Robot.
But because we havent spent much time with Wellick, emotional revelations about his back story tend to have a so what?
quality.
That said, now that weve dispensed with essentially Wellicks entire Season 2 arc, Im excited for the revelations yet to come.
How will he respond to the news that his wife is dead and his son is gone?
And now that hes familiar with his beloved Elliots bifurcated nature, how will he deal with again being a tool of someone who, like E Corp or even his late wife, he cant really trust?
Speaking of tools, it looks like Mr.
Robot is really going there, in regards to making President Trump part of this story and the puppet of a foreign government to boot.
(Of course the usual Mr.
Robot things-might-not-be-what-they-seem caveats apply.)
Whiterose is manipulating events from his uncharted isle, summoning (as Minister Zhang) his propaganda arm the cable news blowhard Frank Cody to give him his barking orders.
These include backing a Trump candidacy, rehabilitating Wellicks image and promoting the fake news that fsociety is actually based in Iran.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
Its brown enough, shouldnt be too hard, Cody says.
Get it?
Codys fans are easily duped racists.
They will blame Iran for their troubles and back Trump, even though the guys a buffoon.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hes completely divorced from reality, Cody adds.
How would you even control him?
If you pull the right strings, a puppet will dance any way you desire, Whiterose tells him.
Part of the energy of Mr.
Robot comes from the way it plays with real-life events, a tactic that becomes potentially more intriguing as the series threatens to get into parallel worlds or other more dramatically sci-fi modes of reality distortion.
(Some amateur theorists even posited that Trumps election proves were now living in an alternate universe.)
But unlike the more impressionistic montage from the premiere, Wednesdays Trump-centric sequence was pretty clunky the unvarnished contempt made it feel like a jarring, didactic digression from the otherwise nuanced story.
Im sure its terrifically satisfying to clown a man you despise with your TV show.
But sometimes the show suffers for it.
A Few Thoughts While We Make Jiffy Pop and Watch Big Brother Bobby Cannavale continues to be outstanding as Irving, pairing the tremendous styling with a slyly inflected performance you get the sense hed sell you a Pontiac or have you killed with the same affable efficiency.
Irving manages to serve as both comic relief Swedish Fish!
and the glue holding much of the story together, and his ground-level orchestration of events and their participants, like his duplicitous pep talk to Wellick, is a nice counterpoint to the big-picture puppeteering of Phillip Price and Whiterose.
Heres hoping he sticks around long enough to finish Beach Towel.
I was happy to see last years breakout Joey Badass return, if only briefly.
Turns out not only did Elliot take out the gun hidden in the popcorn machine, he tried to use it to kill Wellick, who took the misfire as further proof of his and Elliots shared destiny and God-like status.
Unfortunately for Elliot, Irving later cleared out the resulting squib load, enabling Wellick to eventually use it on him in the Season 2 finale.
The Peter Blum Gallery has moved to a space on the Lower East Side that is so much like its previous one, on 57th Street, that it seems simply to have slightly expanded its space in all directions.
The architectural resemblance can make you laugh, but Stars Without Distance, John Zuriers show of new paintings here, may take your breath away.
Mr. Zurier has devoted over two decades to making increasingly engaging monochromatic paintings that are not quite monochromes.
Their delicate fields of blue, mint green, pink, yellow or smudgy white are airy and semitransparent.
Their brushwork is thin-skinned, and there is much else going on: thin lines often border these fields or cut through them.
Small boxy marks dabs from a narrow brush pace off distances at the sides or sneak into the fields where they sometimes resemble stars in the firmament.
The paint moves into corners, creating irregularities that reveal other colors.
These elements are especially clear in Taktur, a deep blue surface edged in lighter blue, with a wire-thin line crossing the field top and bottom.
Each line has a white mark above and below it.
These arrangements add intimations of quietly sparkling moonlit views at sea.
Photo Mr. Zuriers paintings are acts of full disclosure; you see every decision, gesture and mark that went into their making.
This is true of many foundational postwar painters, especially Jackson Pollock and Robert Ryman.
But Mr. Zuriers process is more intuitive and personal.
No detail of a painting determines any other; you absorb each, oddity by oddity, fitting them into the whole, and into the experience of really looking.
ROBERTA SMITH Genesis Belanger Through Nov. 4.
Mrs., 60-40 56th Drive, Maspeth, Queens; 347-841-6149, mrsgallery.com.
Surrealism and Pop Art were concerned with mass production, consumerism and the psychic impact of living in a world flooded with objects.
Genesis Belanger picks up this thread in Cheap Cookie and a Tall Drink of Water at Mrs. Photo Ms. Belangers sculptures, made with stoneware, porcelain and concrete, allude to recognizable objects and yet blur their references.
Cheap Cookie (all works are from 2017) is an Oreo grasped between two human fingers, rounded into a nearly abstract circle.
Dog in Heels is a hot dog eased into a sandal and Big Yummy looks like a minimalist concrete slab, but actually represents a piece of chewing gum wrapped in foil paper.
Photo Part of the attraction of Ms. Belangers work is how it conjures art history: Salvador Dals lobster phone; Meret Oppenheims fur-covered teacup; Claes Oldenburgs soft sculptures; Man Rays objects wrapped in felt; and pieces by Evelyne Axell, Marisol, Niki de Saint Phalle, Tom Wesselmann, Brian Calvin, Al Hansen and many others working in the Pop idiom.
Photo Where earlier artists were focused on the uncanniness of new electronics and mass-produced food, however, or stripped them down to a midcentury malaise, Ms. Belanger takes a middle path.
Her sculptures, with their rounded surfaces and pastel hues, reflect an era of postmodern design, of so-called user friendly electronics and relatable experiences.
Gadgets have become more prosthetic than ever and everything from hot dogs to cigarettes can be organic.
Rather than filling us with Freudian angst or existential terror over this situation, Ms. Belangers sculptures feel like emotional support animals: comforting creatures (or biological interfaces) that ease our way through a difficult and confusing world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story MARTHA SCHWENDENER Craig Kalpakjian Through Nov. 5.
Kai Matsumiya, 153 Stanton Street, Manhattan; 646-838-9595, kaimatsumiya.com.
In the early days of digital photography, Craig Kalpakjian was among the first artists to make images that depicted entirely artificial spaces: rooms and structures that did not exist anywhere except as pictures or in software programs.
Now that these phenomena are commonplace particularly in video games, but also in architecture, design and other fields Mr. Kalpakjian has moved on to thinking about the digital in other ways, like surveillance and control, as he does in this show at Kai Matsumiya.
In one series of images here, Mr. Kalpakjian remakes Josef Alberss famous Homage to the Square paintings, giving them depth and an eerie feeling of space but also basing his images on the temperature of light rather than using Alberss focus on the interaction of color.
Mr. Kalpakjians latest project, Intelligence (2016-2017) ratchets up these stakes even higher.
In a series of black and white images with text, he juxtaposes excerpts from a manual for the Sony AIBO robotic dog with declassified C.I.A.
and Army Intelligence interrogation manuals.
Psychology (or affect, to use a current art buzzword) is paramount in both how humans can be cracked to how they can bond with a robot animal companion programmed with feelings and a personality (according to the Sony manual).
Elsewhere in this dense and potent exhibition are mirrors and a robotic arm suspended from the ceiling, which suggest both how we view ourselves and are viewed by others in a technology-saturated world (or what the philosopher Vilem Flusser called the photographic universe).
For some, the mirrors are clearly a selfie-op; for others, theyre a reminder of how cameras, software and digital imaging have altered our way of being in the world, and perhaps our very existence.
MARTHA SCHWENDENER
But it is only in the last year that her works have made their way to the city that inspired them.
With help from the Detroit Historical Society and the Knight Foundation, the theaters roving production of Detroit 67 has traveled to museums, high schools and community centers in the metropolitan region.
Photo Detroit 67 is one of three plays inspired by the city; Paradise Blue, the second, about an arts-rich African-American neighborhood demolished at midcentury for freeway construction, will be produced at the Signature Theater Company in Manhattan in the spring.
Skeleton Crew, the final work in the trilogy, centers on the closing of an automobile plant and its impact on four workers during the 2008 recession.
It runs through Oct. 29 at the Detroit Public Theaters 150-seat space inside the Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Music Center; the Detroit Free Press described it as maybe the best play youll see this year.
The theater was founded in 2015 by Courtney Burkett, a native of the city who had worked in theater here and in New York; Sarah Clare Corporandy, who also serves as managing director at Chautauqua Theater Company in upstate New York, but returned here for this challenge; and Sarah Winkler, a native New Yorker with more than two decades as an actress and producer Off Broadway, who moved here when her husband took a job in Michigan.
All three share the title producing artistic director.
We felt like there was not an anchor for theater serving the city, Ms. Burkett explained, noting the presence of major cultural institutions like the Detroit Symphony Orchestra and Detroit Institute of Arts.
A theater like this could not have existed 10 years ago, she added.
Now that the citys stabilizing and even thriving in so many ways, our artists are also thriving and getting the attention they always deserved.
Among the challenges is ensuring that, as white women, they remain connected to a city that is more than 80 percent black.
(Matrix Theater Company and the African-American focused Plowshares Theater Company both have long histories here.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an email, Ms. Corporandy said: Producing theater in a city that is predominantly African-American means we need to make sure that our stories speak to everyone, to the public we want to serve.
Photo We are also very aware of the privilege we come to the table with, she added, and we want to be sure that we are leveraging that privilege to give back to this city that we all love, not take from it.
The Detroit Public Theater annual budget is a relatively modest $1 million; its costs include renting space inside the symphonys hall.
The leaders hope to raise enough money to have a permanent home eventually; in the meantime, they believe that showing work like Ms. Morisseaus is vital to the theaters becoming better known to Detroiters, suburbanites, and visitors intrigued by the citys much-touted comeback.
This playwright was a natural choice for the inaugural 2015-16 season, according to Ms. Burkett.
(It presented Detroit 67 in a coproduction with Baltimore Center Stage.)
And the leaders intend to bring other Michigan artists into the fold, including the playwright Noah Haidle, whose Birthday Candles will have its world premiere as the final show this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Debbie Erb, the chairwoman of the theaters board, said leaders want to keep the shows really accessible.
Ticket prices top out at $45, with group and student discounts and pay as you go options during previews.
Another goal is to keep actors who are from the Detroit area in Detroit, Ms. Erb said.
Because why should they have to go to Chicago or New York to earn a decent living?
Ms. Morisseau admits that until recently she was better known outside her hometown than inside.
Even starting from Detroit, she said, local theaters didnt know who I was until really, really huge things happened for me.
Clearly that is changing.
Ella Joyce, a Detroit native now living in Los Angeles, plays Faye, the lead character in Skeleton Crew.
She was excited to return for the role.
I dont think Dominique is just Detroits greatest playwright, she said on opening night.
I think she is one of Americas greatest playwrights.
Photo Ms. Joyce said friends from grade school turned up at performances of the play and came up to speak with her afterward, even bringing childhood photos to remind her who they were.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Writing about the people of Detroit, particularly African-Americans, is crucial to Ms. Morisseaus work.
And while she now lives in Los Angeles, serving on the writing staff of Showtimes Shameless, she believes her work brings Detroiters alive, especially when it is performed by local actors.
Something kind of magic and organic comes out of the mouth of a native Detroiter when theyre saying my words, she said.
Its like we speak the same language.
Earlier this month Ms. Morisseau came to see Skeleton Crew with her husband and an entourage of dozens, including her mother, who still lives in Detroit.
When you are sitting around with half your family that inspired your work, its profound and exciting, but it is also overwhelming because these are the people that know it best and that live it, she said.
Its for this reason that Ms. Morisseau is not only glad to see her work produced inside the theater, but brought to the public as well.
Asking communities from all over to not just go to midtown or downtown Detroit to see shows, but come out to the neighborhood where what happened in these neighborhoods happened to someone you know, she said.
That to me has power, in the best way, to affirm, to vindicate, to humanize and to heal.
As a generation turned, house D.J.s turned remixes of Sade ballads into club classics, and a raft of hip-hop artists repeatedly sampled her.
So when the owners of East River Tattoo fired back on Instagram, posting a screen shot of the Yelp review beside a caption that said, Proud to be shattering your expectations of what a tattoo shop should be, every day of the week, obviously an army of Sade obsessives rushed to the stores side.
All that says is your understanding of the world and whats happening in it... Is shall we say, limited lol, one wrote.
Sade is one of the most relentlessly quiet famous people on the planet.
But in her extended silences, her place in the pantheon of cultural influence has only grown more enormous.
This impact includes tattoos.
More than 20 East River Tattoo clients have had their bodies adorned with Ms. Adus visage over the last year or so.
A manager noted that that was 20 more requests than theyd gotten for Madonna and Janet Jackson.
A post shared by Art8C Tattoo8CLaser8C (@niki23gtr) on Mar 22, 2017 at 9:26am PDT The most famous Sade tattoo, however, belongs to Drake.
He premiered it on Instagram this March.
In it, Ms. Adus hair is hidden, Nina Simone-like, beneath a turban.
In February 2017, the street wear brand Supreme put Ms. Adus image on a coveted limited-edition T-shirt.
In March, Reese Witherspoons Type A character on Big Little Lies established her remove from pop culture when she hears Sade on the car stereo and mistakes it for Adele.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Demand for T-shirts from Sades 1992 and 2001 tours has so outstripped supply that vintage sellers like Chicos Closet in Los Angeles have largely abandoned eBay (and its commission fees) and moved to Instagram, where the mere act of hashtagging Sade leads to whack-a-mole-like sales.
Some of this Sade fever can be traced to Patrick Matamoros, 41, a high-end dealer who finds rare T-shirts, distresses them to perfection and then places them on to the backs of celebrity clients such as Rihanna, Diplo and Mark Ronson.
Photo Two years ago, Mr. Matamoros sold a tee from Sades 1993 Love Deluxe tour to Kanye West.
Id sold Sade shirts to famous people before that, but something happens when Kanye wears a shirt that I still dont understand, Mr. Matamoros said on a recent afternoon.
This conversation was in his Lower East Side apartment, and he was in a Run-DMC shirt and a Sade crew hat that he sells for as much as $600.
He picked up a vintage Phil Spector shirt and poked a hole through one of the sleeves with his big toe.
I used to say to people about Sade, This isnt going to impress everyone in the room, Mr. Matamoros said.
Get an Iron Maiden shirt if thats what you want.
Sade was for two people in the room, but it was the right two people.
Photo Not anymore.
Now, everyone wants them and Mr. Matamoros says even he rarely gets them without paying at least $300 a pop, which happens to be more than any other female singer alive today.
Much of the current fascination with Sade derives from the fact that her fans know so little about her, starting with the pronunciation of her name.
(Many Americans believe its pronounced Shar-day; its Sha-day.)
In an era that rewards people less for their talent than for their associations with other famous people and the ability to leverage those associations over Instagram and Twitter, Sades disinterest in self-promotion has had a reverse effect.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Her longstanding lack of interest in speaking about herself makes the world more likely to want to speak about her.
For college, Ms. Adu went to what is now called Central Saint Martins, in London, then and now the worlds most prestigious fashion school.
To make extra money, said Albert Watson, who photographed the covers of the bands Love Deluxe and Lovers Rock albums, Ms. Adu took a job selling clothes at the Camden Street Market.
She began singing backup in a local band, and moved to frontwoman only reluctantly.
The lead singer left, she later said.
Photo It turned out she was great, with a breathy voice that was heard by Stuart Matthewman and Paul Denman, playing in a band called Pride.
They asked Ms. Adu to start singing with them.
In 1982 or 1983, Mr. Matthewman and Mr. Denman left Pride and formed a group around Sade.
They signed to Epic Records, where executives quickly realized they were dealing with an artist with no direct historical precedent.
She was one of those rare artists I fell completely in love with because she came just the way she is now, said Susan Blond, a former vice president and publicity director at Epic who now heads an agency where clients have included Aerosmith, Will.I.Am and Morrissey.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
She was very young, but she was very sophisticated, Ms.
Blond said.
She didnt follow anyone elses style.
No one was as beautiful or had as sleek of a look as her.
She didnt mind designer clothes, but youd never ever look at her and say, Oh thats a Chanel outfit.
She never looked like a brand.
And her songs seemed to become classics immediately.
In a way, Ms. Adus sphinx-y stare, keen fashion sense and interest in Afro-Caribbean rhythms owed a debt to Grace Jones, but her pensive lyrics and languid delivery of them flipped the script by placing romance above sex.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When Ms. Adu sang about a male gigolo on her breakout hit, Smooth Operator, she was lamenting what happens when sentiment is left to chance.
The saxophone signaled sorrow.
Ms. Adu wasnt asking as Ms. Jones did for a guy to drive it in between.
Shortly before Sade won the 1986 Grammy for best new artist, she appeared on Saturday Night Live with Tom Hanks, who recalled the experience in an email: It was the first time I did SNL, which is a major event an anyones life, a heady week of being surrounded by all that history.
Id never been in 30 Rock, much less invited to work on the 17th floor or in Studio 8-H.
I thought the big talisman for being on SNL was the job of saying Ladies and Gentlemen, Sade.
which is actually written on a cue card, by the way.
Calling her elusive or mysterious might color her as unkind or remote.
She was not that.
She was, rather, just very comfortable in her command of her art, as well as her presence.
Having very little in common with her, save the close approximation of dressing quarters, a bit of me yearned to be as cool and composed as Sade.
She remains a Smooth Operator, no?
Dan Beck, a former senior vice president at Epic who worked on the United States promotion for Sades first four albums, said, There was grace to everything she did.
Photo Although Ms. Adu looked forward to the publicity campaigns of record releases about as much as one would a root canal, Mr. Beck said, this wasnt because she was temperamental or diva-ish.
She merely regarded the project of explication with suspicion.
She seemed to operate according to the principle that narcissism was not the precondition for artistic exploration, but was instead its enemy.
She never enjoyed promotion of any type, Mr. Beck said.
It was painful for her.
Eventually, I flew over to London to see her and we struck a deal.
I said that if she would commit to giving me three weeks of nonstop publicity for each album, everything but the kitchen sink, VH1 and radio stuff and photo shoots, I would go back to my counterparts at the label and get them to put everything they needed into that time period.
I said, Youll hate it but well get it all done and when youre done youre done.
And she laughed, and thats what we did for the next two albums after that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story (She and her bandmates also hired the manager Roger Davies, who guided the second half of Tina Turners career and long understood that mystery equaled timelessness.)
As the years went by, the break between albums stretched ever longer.
She wanted to have normal relationships.
She wanted to record when she actually had something to say.
Photo Sades 1992 album, Love Deluxe, arrived four years after Stronger Than Pride.
Ms. Adu smiled as she told Mr. Beck she might not have gone back into the studio to record except the guys in the band wanted to return to work, he said.
I thought that was so sweet.
(In a 1992 interview she said, Its good that we stopped and didnt try to make another one off the back of the previous album.
You get some perspective on why youre making a record.)
Then, she did the photo shoot for the album and Mr. Watson, a contributor to Vogue who directed a number of Sades videos, proposed shooting her topless with metallic body paint, her hands covering her chest.
She said, I dont mind.
Ill do that for you, but I dont want it to be anywhere near the album cover, Mr. Watson said.
I said, The shoot is for you.
You control all the images.
Then she looked at it and said it was too sexy.
Eventually, in conversation with the band, she agreed to use it, but the image remains an outlier in the way she has chosen to display herself.
A year later, Sade declined to release a house remix of Pearls, perhaps because there was something a little unseemly about people dancing to a song about the Somalian civil war.
Then, a bootleg of it began making the rounds to D.J.s such as Junior Vasquez and Frankie Knuckles, who turned it into one of the eras defining club tracks.
In 1995, a marriage to the Spanish film director Carlos Pliego ended.
Ms. Adu later said the pair had a difficult time navigating the demands of global fame with their private relationship.
For a time, she lived in Jamaica with Bob Morgan, and they had a child.
An eight-year stretch between albums yielded Lovers Rock, which had lots about romance but also brought a quiet force to songs about issues facing black people.
The video for King of Sorrow was a masterstroke of Sade-ness, where she wore ball gowns and a bandanna, scrubbing a childs shoe clean.
Was it a cautionary tale for single parenthood or a fashion spread devoted to it?
Who could say.
It was lovely.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story By the mid-aughts, Ms. Adu had become involved with a former fireman named Ian Watts.
With one child each, they had settled into a countryside cottage near Stroud, England.
All this time, in luxurious quiet, her legend grew.
The parasitic music business had driven many black female singers to seclusion, before Sade.
The difference was that Ms. Adu appeared not to be combusting but thriving.
Her fans yearned for more material, all the while respecting her resolute privacy.
One secret to her absence is that it is not so total as to be suspicious.
Tours in 2001 and 2011 showed her to be in fine form.
(And the time away only helped build interest.
The first tour for her 2001 album, Lovers Rock, grossed $26 million.
The second, for Soldier of Love, grossed $50 million.)
In 2012 Mr. Watson had a retrospective in Hamburg, and Ms. Adu flew in without any pomp or circumstance.
She simply treated it as if she was showing up for a friend and smiled luminously as she sat with him in her trademark earrings, silk shirt and jeans.
When the exhibition was too crowded to really view the work, she returned the following morning to see it again, Mr. Watson said.
Ms. Adu can also sometimes be spotted on her cat-loving childs Instagram.
On Mothers Day this year, this undated portrait was published.
Back in January, on the day she turned 58, a recent picture appeared.
She looks impeccably happy.
A post shared by Izaak Theo (@caracalonbenzos) on Jan 16, 2017 at 11:21am PST Even with so little of her, you can see her look everywhere.
Just last week, T:, The New York Times Style Magazine put Nicki Minaj on a cover, her hair in a black ponytail, a pair of gold hoops dangling.
Lauren Tabach-Bank, the magazines entertainment director, didnt hesitate when asked whom they were channeling.
Sade, she said.
You never know how someones going to react, but Sade is universally respected and lauded by musicians of all genres.
Nicki saw the images and was like, Sade, Oh my God.
I love it.
It felt expensive, cool and timeless.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres talk of a Sade album coming next year, but even Mr. Watson, who sees her with some regularity, says he isnt sure.
Its always like that with Sade, he said.
Time will go by and shell start working on it.
For her, its like getting out of bed on a Sunday morning.
You know you dont want to do it, but at some point you just do it.
When we were having our first success with her, I said, This lady could have a hit album when shes 90 years old.
Most artists try too hard, Mr. Beck said.
And consciously or unconsciously, I think people have a special appreciation for someone who isnt out there waving their rsum at you every five minutes.
Shes completely unique.
Photo In Halloween-season viewing prospects, theres good news and less-good news.
The good news is that two stellar restorations of stone-cold horror classics were released recently.
They are the amazing, amusing The Old Dark House, a 1932 horror comedy directed by James Whale, the maestro of Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, and George A. Romeros seminal 1968 Night of the Living Dead, which had a long road to a beautiful new version.
The less-good news is that these restorations are not yet available for streaming, but are likely to show up in time.
The Living Dead restoration is distributed by Janus, whose stuff is regularly featured on the Criterion Channel of the service Filmstruck and Kanopy.
(In the meantime, if they show up at a theater near you, I implore you to go.)
Filmstruck is actually an excellent site for vintage horror this Halloween.
Earlier this month the service featured premieres of six 1940s horror movies produced by Val Lewton for RKO Pictures.
Lewton was a novelist-turned-producer of first-class taste, wide-ranging imagination and remarkable resourcefulness.
In emphasizing that taste, critics have risked giving his nine RKO horror movies short shrift in terms of their potency in the fright department.
While some Lewton pictures are more conventionally thrilling than others The Curse of the Cat People (1944) is an unusual kind of sequel and features a tone more poetic than spooky most of the movies still carry strong scares.
In the original Cat People (1942), the European immigrant Irena (Simone Simon), bride of a Norman-Rockwell-type all-American (Kent Smith) fears that her sexual awakening will turn her into a deadly feline creature.
The scenes of Irenas romantic rival Alice (Jane Randolph) seemingly stalked by a panther through Central Park and at an athletic club are still among the tensest ever executed in film.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Similarly, the director Jacques Tourneur, who was behind Cat People and I Walked With a Zombie (1943) gets an enormous amount of scare-mileage out of the sound of dripping water, a train going over a bridge and, finally, a bolted door and some terrifying sound effects in a stage-setting scene from The Leopard Man (1943).
Cat People, Zombie, Curse and Leopard Man are all part of the Filmstruck package.
The other two titles are The Body Snatcher (1945) and Bedlam (1946), both more horror-conventional in subject matter and star power.
The Body Snatcher is derived from the Robert Louis Stevenson story and stars both Boris Karloff of Frankenstein and Bela Lugosi of Dracula fame its one of only six movies the horror heavyweights made together.
A spectacularly ghoulish story of grave robbers and medical demonstrations in 19th-century Edinburgh, it builds to a dizzying pitch of delirium.
So does Bedlam, also starring Karloff, another grim period piece set in an asylum.
Because the Lewton productions were low-budget pictures meant to fill out double-features, theyre pretty concise, with not many reaching the 90-minute mark.
As such, the lot can serve as terrific Halloween binge-watching.
On this weeks podcast, the actress Cleopatra Coleman reads My Body Doesnt Belong to You, an essay about a woman who feels increasingly dispossessed of her physical self.
Photo Heather Burtmans essay was published this year in Modern Love and received an outpouring of responses from readers who also longed for a time before the male gaze.
Now, in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the #MeToo movement, Ms. Burtman reflects on her essays enduring relevance.
Ms. Coleman is best known for her role in the comedy series The Last Man on Earth.
Follow her on Twitter and Instagram.
Photo It was boogie-woogie.
It was R&B.
Then it was rock n roll.
Then it was pop.
And it was all Fats Domino, the New Orleans musician whose easygoing image cheerfully concealed the boldness and subtlety of his music.
Domino, who died in Louisiana at 89, both embodied and extended the New Orleans piano heritage of styles that are at once unswervingly propulsive and floridly improvisational; he also infused early rock n roll with New Orleans syncopations.
His songs, most written with his producer and bandleader Dave Bartholomew, were often concise sketches of romantic strife involving heartbreak, betrayal, loneliness and spite.
But he sang them with such sly good humor in his voice and his timing that they sounded like a good time.
Here are 12 from his prime years.
The Fat Man (1949) Fats Domino announced himself with this single: a two-fisted boogie-woogie piano intro with tremolo flourishes, verses that establish his 200-pound physique and his New Orleans locale and a falsetto vocal like a trumpet solo.
Mr. Bartholomew thought at first that the piano was recorded too loud.
Blueberry Hill (1956) Now indelibly associated with Domino, Blueberry Hill had been around since 1940, recorded by Gene Autry, Glenn Miller and Louis Armstrong, among others.
But it took Dominos utterly satiated vocal, atop a New Orleans backbeat and his trademark piano triplets, to make the thrill so thoroughly lusty.
Im Walkin (1957) Handclaps and a breezy, bluesy guitar riff conceal still another story of romantic woe, this time coupled with resentment.
Sure, he wants her back, but once he has her, he might just say bye-bye himself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Aint It a Shame (1955) Heartbreak has rarely sounded as survivable as it does on Aint It a Shame, from the terse stop-time beginnings of its verses You made/Me cry/When you said/Goodbye to its joshing saxophone solo.
Domino sings about tears, but hes vehement when he insists, Youre the one to blame.
Pat Boones opportunistic cover version remains a disgrace.
Photo LONDON The artist James Bridle remembers the first time he heard of military drones.
Back then, some seven years ago, it took intensive online searching to track down an image of one.
As reports of drones as weapons of war and instruments of surveillance became more common, he wanted to understand them better.
For him, they were an idea without a physical reality.
Mr. Bridle found and downloaded the plans for a type of drone used by the United States Air Force and, using string and chalk, drew a full-size outline of the aircraft on the tarmac of the parking lot behind Bridles London studio.
Seeing the form sketched out as if the drone were casting a full-scale shadow over an urban setting revealed that this previously unseen combat apparatus had a wingspan about the length of a bus.
Photo As an artist, Mr. Bridle is interested in the relationship between the digital and physical world, in how the former changes the way we think about the latter.
Drones are one of those technologies that seemed to go from science fiction to completely mundane without going through a critical-thinking stage, he said.
It seemed to stand for so much: war, crime, violence and technology.
He has since realized versions of the work, called Drone Shadow, in locations from Washington to Istanbul.
The latest version of Drone Shadow falls across the atrium of the Imperial War Museum London as the first work in the exhibition Age of Terror: Art Since 9/11.
Curated by Sanna Moore, the show explores how artists have responded to conflict since those calamitous events.
Taking the attack on the World Trade Center as a cultural turning point, the exhibition reflects on the continuing state of emergency weve been in and how the world has changed: mass surveillance, civil rights, detentions without trial, Ms. Moore said.
Photo The scale of Age of Terror the largest contemporary art exhibition ever staged by the Imperial War Museum reflects the increase in the number of artists responding to conflict in recent years, Ms. Moore said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The show opens with works that respond directly to Sept. 11 before moving on to consider how the attacks have permeated daily life, in the United States and beyond.
Some began in the immediate aftermath: Tony Oursler started filming the footage used in his work 9/11 in Lower Manhattan soon after the second plane hit.
The piece 9/12 Front Page by the German artist Hans-Peter Feldmann assembles 151 newspaper covers from around the world from the following day, many carrying the same photograph.
At any given time, the club was a dance hall, a screening room, a watering hole, a theater lab, an art gallery, or a self-styled let it all hang out encounter group, Ann Magnuson writes in MoMAs Club 57 exhibition catalog.
Sometimes it was all those things at once.
Photo That interdisciplinary spirit had painters making music, musicians making sculptures, sculptors acting in plays, and actors tossing their scripts in favor of improvised performances, or as Keith Haring called the evenings he organized, Acts of Live Art.
Case in point: Min Thometz, a freshly arrived graduate of a high school in Minnesota, who began bartending at Club 57 when she wasnt also stepping out mid-shift to act in a play or perform in Pulsallama, an all-female 13-member percussion ensemble.
We were all about being very silly at Club 57, she said in a recent phone interview, which made for a purposely stark contrast with the similarly artist-heavy crowd at TriBeCas Mudd Club, which was more about fashion, about being cool.
We were about wearing costumes and having theme parties.
Indeed, her own Bongo Voodoo party ended with dead chickens being flung around, a raging bonfire in the middle of the clubs floor, and her future husband Oliver Sanchez passing out on her turntables as she was D.J.-ing, a novel twist on a meet-cute story.
Yet indoor fires and flying poultry were the least of the worries for a club that never had a liquor license.
Letters from Mr. Strychackis archives show the Holy Cross parishs bishop, John Jakubik, tirelessly intervening on Club 57s behalf with a string of judges and government agencies.
In 1981, when frustrated neighbors finally hired a lawyer to help shut down the club after repeated police summons for noise violations, Bishop Jakubik patiently informed him that Club 57 is the youth circle of our church Please try to understand that the East Village is not the best of areas and our parish hall is the only place where our youth can socialize under supervision.
Photo Sleep-deprived neighbors on St. Marks Place werent the only ones fixating on Club 57.
The art world was taking notice as well.
New collectors began arriving, pumping money into a previously moribund market.
With them came a burst of fresh galleries throughout the East Village a handful in 1981, over a hundred by 1985.
The downtown art world, centered around academia and small government grants, had previously seemed separated by a chasm from free-spending buyers.
No longer.
As checkbooks opened and media attention skyrocketed, it suddenly looked like artists could have it all.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill never forget what Jean-Michel said to me one night, Mr. Sanchez said, recalling a walk home from the club.
Ill learn to draw later.
First I want to get famous.
His work was already good, but he was so astute in his strategy.
His plan was to charm his way into the right circles.
And it absolutely worked!
There was this mad rush to cash in, Mr. Scharf said.
It stopped being as fun as people became competitive with each other.
He includes himself.
For the 1983 Whitney Biennial, Keith and Jean-Michel were in it, and I wasnt.
Which freaked me out!
Part of his solution was a pre-internet social media campaign: I started spray painting my Hanna-Barbera post-nuclear-holocaust mutant characters like Wilma Flintstone with a snake body all up and down the East Side, from the 59th Street Bridge to the East Village.
I had no idea who the curators for the 1985 Whitney Biennial were, but I figured they would at least know my work.
Photo Theres plenty of visual heat to be had in New Yorks galleries and museums this fall, but nowhere more than at the American Folk Art Museum.
The radiance shines forth from the bold geometries in War and Pieced: The Annette Gero Collection of Quilts From Military Fabrics.
This ravishing exhibition features 29 sturdy, intricate wartime quilts dating from the Napoleonic and Crimean Wars and also the British colonies, made by soldiers, sailors or regimental tailors in Europe or India.
The military fabrics used here are scraps of soldiers uniforms, that is, felted wool in strong, clear colors: predominantly red, black, cream and gold.
The show initially resembles an array of extra-large game boards, and the checkered center of one quilt was indeed intended for playing chess, another pastime of enlisted men.
Photo The exhibition reminds us that while war is never less than hell, some of its byproducts can be breathtaking and, in their soul-nurturing beauty, the very antithesis of war.
But these textiles are also freighted with patriotism, male bonding and commemoration.
In addition, wartime quilts were sometimes a means of behavior modification.
In Britain at least, quilting was encouraged by the military and temperance organizations alike; they gave idle hands something to do between military engagements, staving off the temptations of drink and gambling.
They also occupied the time of wounded soldiers recovering in military hospitals and prisoners of war.
Some were made for families back home, others to be sold and a few by orderlies as gifts for their commanding officers.
Photo With their pulsating squares, diamonds and triangles of color, these works attest to the expansiveness of geometry, as well as its use in flags, banners and coats of arms.
The unusual quatrefoil motifs of some individual quilt blocks are based on the four-pronged footprint of battlements known as star forts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Interspersed among their patterned borders and fields are beaded crowns, embroidered portraits of monarchs, and dedications to siblings.
A quilt made by Samuel Sadlowski, a tailor in the Prussian Army taken prisoner during the Napoleonic Wars, is dated 1806; it includes among its many fort blocks, a lovely pastoral frieze in appliqu illustrating the folk tale of a goose-stealing fox pursued by a hunter.
In a quilt from 1766, the central medallion features profile portraits of King George III and Queen Charlotte of Britain, but perhaps most riveting is the thick border distinguished by large appliqu blocks with propeller-like designs.
Photo Some quilts are influenced by cultures under occupation, especially Britains greatest colony, India, where tailors sometimes outlined the composition with rows of tiny glass beads, to spectacular effect.
The Obama commission is likely to catapult her into another league.
There is going to be a spotlight on her, said Paul Staiti, a professor at Mount Holyoke College who is an expert on portraiture.
She should fasten her seatbelt.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A tall, athletic woman in white-framed glasses who lives with her Pekingese-Jack Russell terrier, named August Wilson, Ms. Sherald said she is not allowed to speak about the commission until it is unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery early next year.
Nor would Mrs. Obama comment.
Kim Sajet, the Portrait Gallerys director, would only divulge that Mrs. Obama and Ms. Sherald have already met about the portrait, that the paintings typically involve multiple sittings and that this years subjects chose the artists from about 20 portfolios submitted by the curators.
The first lady has to personally approve the finished work, as does the Portrait Gallerys advisory board.
Photo The Smithsonian plans to pay for both works with $500,000 in private donations of which $300,000 has been raised so far.
This amount covers everything including each artists fees, which Ms. Sajet would not specify.
Ms. Sheralds paintings typically sell for $15,000 to $25,000.
There is no prescribed format for an official portrait, Ms. Sajet said, except that it be a painting not a work on paper and that the artists be respectful of both the person and the position they hold.
Official portraits have ranged from highly formal to much more relaxed, Ms. Sajet added, citing as examples Ron Sherrs 1994 portrait of George H. W. Bush standing in a suit and tie at the White House and Robert Andersons 2008 likeness of George W. Bush in an open-collared shirt on a couch at Camp David.
The selection of Ms. Sherald, who typically depicts African-Americans doing everyday things two women in bathing suits, a man holding a child has historical significance.
Its as if shes saying, Lets be clear: the President and I are African Americans and proudly so, Mr. Staiti said, and these portraits are going to have an African-American vibe theyre going to break out of that rather staid tradition.
I think its important and I think its political, he added, referring to Mrs. Obamas choice.
Photo While Ms. Sherald could not discuss her interactions with Mrs. Obama, the way she generally works offers clear insights into her likely process with the former first lady.
She invites her subjects to her studio here, where she photographs them in an outfit she has selected for them.
Or, she said, she may go to their homes to shop from their closets and photograph them there.
Ms. Sherald always shoots her subjects outdoors with natural light.
I like the way it highlights the textures of the skin, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The commission represents something of a departure for Ms. Sherald; she usually chooses subjects who arrest her attention on the street, in an airport.
She literally approaches strangers.
I would wonder how shed feel about this leading to commissions of other prominent people, Mr. Staiti said.
Shes interested in the exact opposite; shes interested in ordinariness.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Ms. Sherald said how much the selection means to her, how Mrs. Obama loomed large in her life, though they had not previously met.
Weve been on a first-name basis for eight years, she said jokingly.
Seeing her made my world better.
Shes an archetype that a lot of women can relate to no matter shape, size, race or color, Ms. Sherald added.
We see our best selves in her.
Ms. Sherald has yet to start the Obama portrait, though it is due to be finished by years end.
Im not going home for the holidays, she said with a laugh.
Yet sitting among her paint tubes their colors smeared on paper plates with three canvases-in-progress leaning against the walls, Ms. Sherald seemed remarkably calm in the face of such a daunting deadline, perhaps because she has confronted far tougher challenges.
Photo Ms. Sherald is a survivor of congestive heart failure, diagnosed at age 30 just as she was earning her masters degree at the Maryland Institute College of Art and was training for a triathlon.
She received a transplant at 39.
She interrupted her career again, taking a four-year break to care for two ailing relatives back in her hometown Columbus, Ga. She lost her father, a dentist, to Parkinsons in 2000; her brother to lung cancer in 2012.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But she does not think of herself as unlucky.
In fact, she said she is keenly aware of those less fortunate around her like children in her own community who are aging out of foster care.
(One block from her studio, she said she can see 10 addicts at any given time.)
Ms. Sherald, who has taught art in the Baltimore City Detention Center, hopes to give back financially as soon as she pays off her school loans and can more easily afford her extensive medication: 13 different pills a day.
When I look at those people, she said, I see myself.
Ms. Sherald isnt very far from the days when she waited tables and worked in a studio without heat or air-conditioning.
Photo Her parents wanted her to go to medical school, but Ms. Sherald knew that she was an artist.
I dont feel like I chose to do it, she said.
I dont know what else Im good at.
She began with bald self-portraits she shaved her own head for a time and then moved into more fantastical work that explored the idea of circus, and fantasy.
Ms. Sheralds cultural influences range from the science fiction writer Octavia Butler to the Surrealist painter Salvador Dal and Tim Burtons quirky movie, Big Fish.
Names that come up in conversation include the poet David Whyte, the public radio host Krista Tippett and Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Over the years, Ms. Sheralds figurative painting has evolved into a stylized realism a gray skin palette punctuated by colorful pieces of clothing on a flat plane.
She makes only about 13 paintings a year.
Its hard for me to find people to paint, she said.
There has got to be something about them that only I can see.
Photo They exist in a place of the past, the present and the future, she added.
Its like something I sense with my spirit more than my mind.
Ms. Sherald only paints African-Americans.
Having studied European art history, she is keenly aware of the scarcity of black faces.
Theres not enough images of us, she said.
Last year she had her first solo show at Monique Meloches Chicago gallery and became the first woman to win the Portrait Gallerys Outwin Boochever competition.
Now there are waiting lists for her work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Everybody responds to her paintings, Ms. Meloche said.
There is something thats so alive in these characters; theyre very calm but theyre still very confrontational.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
Photo The J.C.C.
Manhattan on the Upper West Side will be renamed the Marlene Meyerson J.C.C.
in honor of a $20 million gift from the Meyerson Family Foundation, which is believed to be one of the largest donations ever made to a Jewish Community Center in the United States.
The foundation which made the donation in the name of Marlene Meyerson, a philanthropist who died earlier this year has also commissioned a site-specific artwork for the J.C.C.
by Jenny Holzer.
Photo To create the installation, the J.C.C.
will ask its members over the next several months to share their own words or quotes by others that address the question: What does community mean?
Ms. Holzer will choose a handful of these to chisel onto marble benches and stone plaques throughout the building on Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street.
Ms. Holzer will also incorporate hundreds of other such word contributions into a virtual piece of art that will map the buildings interior and exterior, as well as an augmented-reality smartphone app that will allow users to see the words as if they, too, were actually engraved.
The artwork will be unveiled at a naming ceremony in the spring.
The naming rights will revert to the J.C.C.
in 30 years.
Ms. Meyersons daughter, Marti, has supported the J.C.C.
for more than 20 years as a founder, board chairwoman and as an active member.
The building opened in 2002.
This gift enables us to secure our foundation, said Joy Levitt, the J.C.C.s executive director.
Were going to begin now to talk with our community about what their dreams are for the next 15 years.
Peter Bazalgette, chairman of the U.K.
Holocaust Memorial Foundation, was the head of the jury.
In a news statement, he praised Mr. Adjayes team for creating an emotionally powerful experience and for their understanding of the complexity of the Holocaust and their desire to create a living place as well as a respectful memorial.
Photo The location of the project, which will receive 50 million pounds, or about $66 million, of public funding, has drawn criticism from neighboring institutions, local residents and government officials, however.
This month, the Imperial War Museum, which is about a mile from the memorials proposed site, called for a reconsideration of the plans for the education center.
The museum expressed concern that the center would compete with its own Holocaust gallery, due to open in 2020.
The plans for the memorials learning center include the recorded testimonies of 112 Holocaust survivors.
As well as commemorating the victims of the Holocaust and addressing anti-Semitism, the subterranean center would also examine hatred and prejudice in other forms, including racism and Islamophobia.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
This year, a letter was sent by critics of the plan to all members of the House of Lords, the upper house of Parliament, saying that the gardens where the memorial is to be located would cease to be an amenity for ordinary people if it went ahead.
The gardens are extensively used by residents, visitors to London, and the many thousands who work nearby, including those working in the Palace of Westminster, the letter said.
They are an oasis of calm, enjoyed as a place of exercise, play, picnics, sunbathing and dog walking.
Peter Bottomley, a Conservative lawmaker who was a signatory to the letter, said in a telephone interview that, while he supported the idea of a prominent memorial, he questioned the chosen site.
If everyone saw the information, everyone would agree that the Imperial War Museum is the better proposal, he said, referring to his preferred location.
If you combined the elements of both, thats a very good idea.
Citing security concerns and the impact on the park of additional visitors, Mr. Bottomley said he was calling for a review of how the site came to be selected.
The memorial is scheduled to open in 2021, although it is yet to receive approval from building regulators.
But just as the profession it celebrates is in distress struggling financially in the internet age and attacked as purveyors of fake news so, too, is the Newseum.
The Newseum has run up deficits every year since it opened a grand new home in 2008.
Though it attracts a respectable number of visitors (820,000 expected this year) who pay top dollar ($24.95 for adults) in a city filled with free museums, the institution is simply not taking in enough money to cover its bills.
It still owes roughly $300 million on its new building, and the interest rates on the loans spiked last year.
Its fund-raising has long been sluggish for a museum with a $61 million operating budget.
It relies each year on large infusions of money from the Freedom Forum, the foundation that created the museum and has given it more than $500 million over the last 20 years.
Photo They have one significant donor, and thats a risky proposition, said Susie Wilkening, an independent museum consultant.
Because what happens when that significant donor decides, This may not be what I want to be doing with my assets?
In fact, the Freedom Forum, which champions the First Amendment and whose own endowment has shrunk since the recession, now says it cannot continue to support the Newseum at the same level.
In 2015, the most recent year for which financial statements are available, the Forum provided $21.4 million, or more than a third of the museums budget.
It also took in $7.5 million in admissions.
Still, the museum ran up a $2 million deficit.
We have not been successful in closing the gap, Jan Neuharth, the chief executive officer of the Forum, said.
All of which has put the museums future in doubt.
Jeffrey Herbst, who served as the Newseums chief executive officer and president for two years, stepped down from his post at the end of August.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had different visions of how to address the Newseums financial challenges and at the end of the day, decided to separate amicably, Mr. Herbst said in a phone interview.
He declined to elaborate.
The museum has just begun an in-depth review to try to right the ship.
Everything is on the table, museum officials say, including selling the building that houses the Newseum.
That would be an ignoble fate for a structure borne of such ambition.
The concept for the museum was hatched by the Freedom Forum, which was started in 1991 by Al Neuharth, Ms. Neuharths father and the founder of USA Today.
In 1997, the Newseum opened in a smaller location in Rosslyn, Va.
But Mr. Neuharth had a bolder plan to build a palace to journalism on a piece of prime real estate in downtown Washington.
The gleaming building overlooking the National Mall covers 643,000 square feet and has seven floors of gallery space and two floors of conference space.
All 45 words of the First Amendment are etched into a 74-foot-tall marble tablet on the buildings facade.
Photo Its a great venue.
Ms. Neuharth said, before acknowledging, its very expensive to run the museum here.
It didnt help that the museums new home opened just after the recession hit.
News organizations who were generous supporters at the outset found themselves contending with their own financial challenges.
Journalists, who do not have the deep pockets of some professions, were not a particularly bountiful source of money.
Unlike other museum boards, the Newseum did not require its members to donate to the institution until 2015.
The Newseum would not say how much its trustees are expected to give.
Bob Schieffer, the retired CBS anchor and author of a new book Overload: Finding the Truth in Todays Deluge of News, said he wasnt surprised that the Newseum had struggled to raise funds from news organizations and journalists.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I think its probably more difficult now than ever because you have these big newspaper chains, their revenues are down, Mr. Schieffer said.
In 2015, the last year for which figures are available, the Newseum collected $6.3 million in donations, or about 10 percent of its budget, a small amount for a museum of its size.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That has put pressure on the Freedom Forum to make up any shortfalls.
In 2007, the Freedom Forums endowment was at a little more than $550 million.
Two years later, in the Newseums first full year of operation in the new building, it shrunk to below $400 million.
That same year, it provided $52.4 million of the Newseums $92 million budget.
For large, mature museums, Ms. Wilkening, the consultant, said, very few are likely to have a single donor or foundation contributing even five percent of their operating budget.
That budget has been trimmed significantly in recent years, and there have been four rounds of layoffs.
Photo In addition, the museum has boosted its revenue from other sources and took in $21.4 million in 2015 as an event space for conferences and weddings, up from $12.1 million in 2011.
Ms. Neuharth and Mr. Williams said that the financial review was in the early stages and could have initial findings by the end of the year.
As part of the review, the officials will convene a team that includes real estate experts, financial advisers, senior staff and trustees, among others, to try and make the Newseum and the Newseum Institute, its related educational center, sustainable over the long term.
Wayne Reynolds, a Washington-based philanthropist and a former Newseum board member, said he did not expect the review would find some miracle cure.
Theyve known for years that their institution is unsustainable, Mr. Reynolds said.
To have a strategic review at this point seems ludicrous.
Mr. Reynolds said he was a museum trustee for about a year before resigning in 2015.
Among the reasons he cited for leaving: Their unwillingness to change their direction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Among his objections: the size of the admission fee, which he said was an obstacle to building attendance.
Its the fact that theyre charging $24 a person to go through a place, Mr. Reynolds said.
Every other place that they are competing against along the Mall is free.
Though the Newseum is listed as a popular attraction on TripAdvisor, attendance is still meager compared with other top museums in the area, many of which are federally funded.
The National Air and Space Museum, for example, a division of the Smithsonian that charges no admission, has already taken in 5.8 million visitors this year, according to data reported through September.
Will President Trumps attacks on the news media spur attendance, or hurt?
So far, the museums popularity seems to be on the upswing.
But admissions, even at the most popular museums, typically offset only a fraction of an institutions operating budget.
So the solutions will need to be much broader, museum officials agree.
Our advocacy is more important than ever, Ms. Neuharth said.
We need to get a handle on the finances so that going forward for generations to come we can continue that advocacy.
The Peter Blum Gallery has moved to a space on the Lower East Side that is so much like its previous one, on 57th Street, that it seems simply to have slightly expanded its space in all directions.
The architectural resemblance can make you laugh, but Stars Without Distance, John Zuriers show of new paintings here, may take your breath away.
Mr. Zurier has devoted over two decades to making increasingly engaging monochromatic paintings that are not quite monochromes.
Their delicate fields of blue, mint green, pink, yellow or smudgy white are airy and semitransparent.
Their brushwork is thin-skinned, and there is much else going on: thin lines often border these fields or cut through them.
Small boxy marks dabs from a narrow brush pace off distances at the sides or sneak into the fields where they sometimes resemble stars in the firmament.
The paint moves into corners, creating irregularities that reveal other colors.
These elements are especially clear in Taktur, a deep blue surface edged in lighter blue, with a wire-thin line crossing the field top and bottom.
Each line has a white mark above and below it.
These arrangements add intimations of quietly sparkling moonlit views at sea.
Photo Mr. Zuriers paintings are acts of full disclosure; you see every decision, gesture and mark that went into their making.
This is true of many foundational postwar painters, especially Jackson Pollock and Robert Ryman.
But Mr. Zuriers process is more intuitive and personal.
No detail of a painting determines any other; you absorb each, oddity by oddity, fitting them into the whole, and into the experience of really looking.
ROBERTA SMITH Genesis Belanger Through Nov. 4.
Mrs., 60-40 56th Drive, Maspeth, Queens; 347-841-6149, mrsgallery.com.
Surrealism and Pop Art were concerned with mass production, consumerism and the psychic impact of living in a world flooded with objects.
Genesis Belanger picks up this thread in Cheap Cookie and a Tall Drink of Water at Mrs. Photo Ms. Belangers sculptures, made with stoneware, porcelain and concrete, allude to recognizable objects and yet blur their references.
Cheap Cookie (all works are from 2017) is an Oreo grasped between two human fingers, rounded into a nearly abstract circle.
Dog in Heels is a hot dog eased into a sandal and Big Yummy looks like a minimalist concrete slab, but actually represents a piece of chewing gum wrapped in foil paper.
Photo Part of the attraction of Ms. Belangers work is how it conjures art history: Salvador Dals lobster phone; Meret Oppenheims fur-covered teacup; Claes Oldenburgs soft sculptures; Man Rays objects wrapped in felt; and pieces by Evelyne Axell, Marisol, Niki de Saint Phalle, Tom Wesselmann, Brian Calvin, Al Hansen and many others working in the Pop idiom.
Photo Where earlier artists were focused on the uncanniness of new electronics and mass-produced food, however, or stripped them down to a midcentury malaise, Ms. Belanger takes a middle path.
Her sculptures, with their rounded surfaces and pastel hues, reflect an era of postmodern design, of so-called user friendly electronics and relatable experiences.
Gadgets have become more prosthetic than ever and everything from hot dogs to cigarettes can be organic.
Rather than filling us with Freudian angst or existential terror over this situation, Ms. Belangers sculptures feel like emotional support animals: comforting creatures (or biological interfaces) that ease our way through a difficult and confusing world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story MARTHA SCHWENDENER Craig Kalpakjian Through Nov. 5.
Kai Matsumiya, 153 Stanton Street, Manhattan; 646-838-9595, kaimatsumiya.com.
In the early days of digital photography, Craig Kalpakjian was among the first artists to make images that depicted entirely artificial spaces: rooms and structures that did not exist anywhere except as pictures or in software programs.
Now that these phenomena are commonplace particularly in video games, but also in architecture, design and other fields Mr. Kalpakjian has moved on to thinking about the digital in other ways, like surveillance and control, as he does in this show at Kai Matsumiya.
In one series of images here, Mr. Kalpakjian remakes Josef Alberss famous Homage to the Square paintings, giving them depth and an eerie feeling of space but also basing his images on the temperature of light rather than using Alberss focus on the interaction of color.
Mr. Kalpakjians latest project, Intelligence (2016-2017) ratchets up these stakes even higher.
In a series of black and white images with text, he juxtaposes excerpts from a manual for the Sony AIBO robotic dog with declassified C.I.A.
and Army Intelligence interrogation manuals.
Psychology (or affect, to use a current art buzzword) is paramount in both how humans can be cracked to how they can bond with a robot animal companion programmed with feelings and a personality (according to the Sony manual).
Elsewhere in this dense and potent exhibition are mirrors and a robotic arm suspended from the ceiling, which suggest both how we view ourselves and are viewed by others in a technology-saturated world (or what the philosopher Vilem Flusser called the photographic universe).
For some, the mirrors are clearly a selfie-op; for others, theyre a reminder of how cameras, software and digital imaging have altered our way of being in the world, and perhaps our very existence.
MARTHA SCHWENDENER
Photo Our guide to new art shows and some that will be closing soon.
DRAWN TO GREATNESS: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION, at the Morgan Library & Museum (through Jan. 7).
This major group drawing show constitutes a grand summing-up of a career, of an art form and of an institutions holdings.
During the past 60 years, the New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare Eddy Thaw, amassed a phenomenal drawing collection notable for its chronological breadth, running from the early Renaissance to the near present.
This year they gave more than 400 items outright to the Morgan, expanding and deepening its range.
The 150 works on view include a super-rare Andrea Mantegna, an unearthly Samuel Palmer and a soulful Vincent Van Gogh.
(Holland Cotter) 212-685-0008, themorgan.org LAUREN GREENFIELD: GENERATION WEALTH at the International Center of Photography (through Jan. 7).
They that will be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, warns the Book of Timothy.
For 25 years, this Beverly Hills-born photographer has been shooting brand-obsessed, money-addled Americans rich and poor alike whose moral rot is expressed through hot-pink Birkin bags, Versace-upholstered furniture and McMansions the size of a small principality.
The result is a tasteless show for a tasteless time.
Some of Ms. Greenfields photographs have a moral passion that exceeds distaste.
But most of these shots are dismissive and shallow, and imply that vulgarity is a greater crime than economic unfairness.
(Jason Farago) 212-857-0000; icp.org THE VIETNAM WAR: 1945-1975 at the New-York Historical Society (through April 22).
In contrast to the stately PBS series The Vietnam War, this jammed exhibition delivers historical data, and a lot of it, quick-and-dirty, through labels, film clips, audio bytes and objects, some of which fall under a broad definition of art.
Along with paintings by contemporary Vietnamese artists, theres graffiti-style drawing on combat helmets and Zippo lighters, and period design in the form of album covers and protest posters.
Words and images work together in illustrated murals labeled Home Front and War Front that put you right in the middle of the wars primary issues and events.
(Cotter) 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org AI WEIWEI: GOOD FENCES MAKE GOOD NEIGHBORS at Washington Square Park, Doris C. Freedman Plaza and throughout New York City (through Feb. 11, 2018) A citywide public art disruption by Chinas most important contemporary artist comprises large steel cages uptown and downtown, chain-link fences behind bus stops from Harlem to the Bronx, protective netting around Corona Parks Unisphere, and hundreds of portraits of refugees on lampposts.
Mr. Ai is a refugee himself he fled to Berlin in 2015 and by this point there is no untangling his art and his activism.
(Farago) Installation sites are at publicartfund.org Last Chance DEADEYE DICK: RICHARD BELLAMY AND HIS CIRCLE, at Peter Freeman Gallery (through Oct. 28).
A wistfully romantic portrait of the postwar dealer Richard Bellamy, a passionate advocate for contemporary art, Deadeye Dick emphasizes the early-1960s heyday of the Green Gallery he founded on West 57th Street while inviting judgments about the realities of the art trade today.
Alongside early works by Donald Judd, Claes Oldenburg and other familiar names who began at the Green are pieces by Jean Follett and Sidney Tillim, as well as portraits of Bellamy by Alex Katz and others that attest to his charisma.
(Karen Rosenberg) 212-966-5154, peterfreemaninc.com
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
In the kitchen, the appliances are hidden in twin blue cabinets; the faucet and sink have been powder-coated the same hue.
In the airy front room, the low-slung sectional sofa is nothing more than blue vinyl cushions topped with blue cotton pillows.
The adjacent blue coffee table is one of the three-legged stainless steel pieces, 1 on 2 and 2 on 1, for which Nuriev is known, and which are sold by Not So General in West Hollywood.
In the dining room, there are six chairs of the same color and design where one leg is an arch that ingeniously doubles as the back set around a long, blue-flecked marble table.
In both the dining room and the kitchen hang pendant lamps Nuriev created out of blue-capped Bic pens.
Why these particular pens?
he asks rhetorically.
First of all, all Soviet kids had pens like these in school.
Second, its my color.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story MANY OF US, lets admit it, have gone to a museum or ordered dessert simply to post the experience on social media.
Likewise, many interiors on Instagram seem to have been created with a future photo in mind.
But these spaces frequently feel inert, overly composed; there is none of the sense of life, of organic coherence, that accrues over time in a place thats actually been inhabited, not just arranged for a picture.
Nurievs apartment is certainly photogenic he has a knack for dividing spaces with color-blocking, essentially creating areas made to be framed but it also radiates an air of imperfect coziness.
That human touch is evident in the black plastic hand-shaped chair he found on the street, or the bowl of McIntosh apples that sits on his desk because their scent reminds him of growing up in Stavropol, an agricultural hub in the Caucasus.
Even as his apartment serves as his showroom its not like a website where you go and see pictures, he says.
Its honest.
For Nuriev, honesty that intangible virtue is fundamental to good design.
This sofa, he continues, pointing to the blue sectional, which is easy to imagine as the site of drunken late-night hangouts, its pure function, but its still beautiful.
His goal when designing a room, he says, is to leave only whats only useful.
He cites as his influences Japanese architecture (especially Tadao Ando and the firm Sanaa), Scandinavian design and Le Corbusier, who famously called a house a machine for living.
These are often the references for Nurievs cohort of global minimalists, even if they dont always realize it.
So many people are riffing on things they dont know about, says Patrick Parrish, Nurievs New York gallerist, nodding to the fact that young designers are bombarded by so many digital images that they often lose sight of where an idea begins.
Harrys not like that.
He knows exactly what hes referencing.
Photo Photo This style, in part, follows last decades midcentury modern craze, though softens those hard edges, making a space more inviting.
Its also an outgrowth of market forces: The popularity of midcentury furniture rendered the classics too costly for young designers, who were forced to look for more obscure vintage inspiration.
Of course, it takes a new generation of designers to see old decades with fresh eyes: Often, theyve been exposed to only its most superlative examples, and only in magazines and books, as opposed to, say, their Great-aunt Margs apartment.
And then theres the fact that simpler forms, like the arch, dont require the craftsmanship of more complicated designs.
Nuriev, who had six years of training at the Moscow Architectural Institute, says he was first drawn to the arch because it was very classic Roman, Italian, Greek, and he wanted to figure out how to use it in real life, to make it sexy.
He says that when he first started using them, back in 2014, it looked weird.
The pink, likewise, looked girlish, and people would ask him why he was using it.
Its not that everybody copied me, he says.
Its just that I sensed something.
Whats difficult to spot are references to Nurievs Russian upbringing, but theyre in fact there, if quietly.
On the back wall of the kitchen hangs a blue-framed poster of Viktor Tsoi, a Soviet-Korean singer popular in the 1980s whom Nuriev calls the Patti Smith of Russia.
Above the sofa, hes taped a small pamphlet, depicting the reformer Sergius of Radonezh, from his neighborhoods Russian Orthodox Church: In Russia, he says, its as customary to hang a gilt-framed icon in the house as it is to hang a painting over the sofa in American homes.
His version glances at both traditions, while adhering to neither.
For decades, Mr. Landesman, 67, had been a pillar of the international art scene, a man-about-town known from the galleries of Manhattan to the Art Basel fair in Switzerland for his primary-colored suits and deep connections in the industry.
The brother of the renowned Broadway producer Rocco Landesman, who once served as the head of the National Endowment for the Arts, he started at Artforum in the 1980s and until Wednesday had run the magazine with his three co-publishers, Anthony Korner, Charles Guarino and Danielle McConnell.
Photo The lawsuit that preceded his departure was filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan and included accusations that he had harassed nine women, groping them, attempting to kiss them, sending them vulgar messages and, on occasion, retaliating against them when they spurned his advances.
The accounts were from both former employees at the magazine and women Mr. Landesman met at art events, all of whom said he took advantage of them at the start of their careers when they were economically and professionally vulnerable.
The suit also accused the owners of Artforum, one of the art worlds premier publications, of being aware of his behavior but doing little to stop it.
The only named plaintiff in the suit is Amanda Schmitt, a New York curator who started working at Artforum in 2009 when she was 21.
Shortly after Ms. Schmitt took the job, the suit contended, Mr. Landesman singled her out for unwelcome sexual attention, subjecting her to questions about her sex life while touching her, uninvited, on her hips, shoulders, buttocks, hands and neck.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Schmitt left Artforum in August 2012, but two weeks later, after she had started a new job in sales, Mr. Landesman sent her an email, reviewed by The Times, in which he praised brown nosing as a sales technique before veering off into a different and sexually explicit description of the practice.
Not long after, Mr. Landesman invited Ms. Schmitt to tea, ostensibly to discuss her career, and grabbed her by the shoulders, trying to kiss her, the suit said.
It also cited another incident in which Mr. Landesman is said to have told Ms. Schmitt that she needed to be more open to physical contact to succeed and demonstrated by running his finger down her body.
In December 2012, while both were attending Art Basel Miami, Mr. Landesman barraged Ms. Schmitt with text messages asking that she meet him alone and kiss him for three seconds, the suit claimed.
When Ms. Schmitt refused, Mr. Landesman sent an email saying: Give yourself to me!
ALL of you = to all of me.
Although Ms. Schmitt tried to cut off contact, Mr. Landesman continued sending notes, asking if she was making herself climax and was ready to make it a bit physical.
Over the next two years, when he saw Ms. Schmitt at art events, the suit said, he would often whisper to her about masturbation and spanking, and touch her without consent.
In May 2016, Ms. Schmitt met with Mr. Landesman, pleading with him to stop.
But according to the suit, he responded by reaching his shoeless foot out to caress her.
The following month, Ms. Schmitt sent him a text message saying: You have been sexually harassing me since 2012 and continue to do so.
I want it to stop.
Mr. Landesman wrote back promising professionalism in the future, but then asked if they could get on the same page, adding, Id like to be an ally.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
On June 15, 2016, Ms. Schmitt met with two of Artforums other publishers, Ms. McConnell and Mr. Guarino, showing them some of the messages Mr. Landesman had sent.
That same day, Mr. Guarino sent Ms. Schmitt an email promising he was taking action to insure that whatever may have transpired never happens again.
But according to the suit, Mr. Landesman continued sending messages, and Artforum stopped inviting Ms. Schmitt to its events.
Then in May, the suit said, Mr. Landesman accosted Ms. Schmitt at a restaurant while she was eating with her romantic partner and an art critic.
Sitting at the table uninvited, Mr. Landesman claimed that Ms. Schmitt had unfairly accused him of harassment and demanded she discuss it with him in front of her guests, the suit contended.
Ms. Schmitt walked off, but then returned and listed for Landesman his many acts of harassment.
Three months ago, Ms. Schmitts lawyer, Emily Reisbaum, sent Artforum a letter detailing those acts as well as the accounts of other women who claim Mr. Landesman harassed them.
The letter demanded that the harassment stop and that Artforum pay Ms. Schmitts legal and therapy bills.
Negotiations broke down last week, Ms. Reisbaum said, partly because Artforum demanded that Ms. Schmitt not speak to the media.
Her lawsuit includes the other womens accounts, although none of them joined it as plaintiffs.
While their stories suggest a pattern of harassment, it remains unclear if they can be considered as corroborating evidence since some of the accusers never worked for Mr. Landesman.
One of them, Elisabeth McAvoy, did work at Artforum on and off from 2010 to 2013 and described how Mr. Landesman often subjected her to unwanted touching.
Ms. McAvoy, who was in her 20s then and shared a bedroom with her sister, said that Mr. Landesman once encouraged her to get her own apartment so that her sister could masturbate herself to sleep.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jordana Zeldin, a former Manhattan gallery owner, met Mr. Landesman at an art opening in 2012 and said that when he saw her boyfriend giving her a back rub, he began to pressure her for back rubs in a series of emails over the next several weeks.
When Ms. Zeldin finally put her foot down, Mr. Landesman sent her an email saying she should ask for forgiveness.
How about a small apology, the email said.
Knight I feel a little guilty that somehow I may have lead you on into thinking Id give you a great backrub.
Valerie Werder, who worked in a gallery, said that Mr. Landesman groped her after introducing her to one of her favorite art writers at an industry gala last year.
Another gallery worker, Alissa McKendrick, said he did the same to her at the Whitney Biennial in 2012.
In an interview this week, Ms. Schmitt said that she never wanted to sue, but that she did so not just to protect herself, but also the countless young men and women starting out in the art world.
I had no power and no voice then, she said.
I dont feel that way anymore.
So for the new Eleven Madison Park, he hung an Ackermann chalkboard painting an incredible platform for learning, creating, erasing and new beginnings, he wrote on Instagram.
And he welcomes visitors with an installation by Mr. Turner, who melted down about 1,000 pounds of the restaurants old kitchen fixtures and turned them into a step on the entry staircase.
Mr. Humm got a takeout version, which he keeps on his dining table at home: a solid metal bar made of melted knives, pots, stove and meat grinder, he said.
He moved into the rental apartment stark white walls, lovely moldings at the beginning of the year.
I never thought in a million years that I would live on the Upper East Side, but I love it, Mr. Humm said.
Its easy to go for a run.
Hes participating in the TCS New York City Marathon in November.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Before he headed down to Eleven Madison Park for the day, Mr. Humm talked less-is-more philosophy at home.
These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Is there an explicit link between art and food for you?
My dad is an architect.
I was always drawn to Minimalism, and that really has affected my cooking.
One of my most important art moments came when I was 20.
I saw a series of drawings Picasso did of a bull, a study in subtraction, and in the end you have just four lines.
That changed my life, seeing that.
How does that translate to the plate?
Ive been cooking for 26 years, and it was only two years ago that I created a dish that made me feel, I did it.
It was a dish of two ingredients, celery root and truffle.
[Its cooked in a pigs bladder.]
Any other artists who are influential?
I know youre famous for white dishes.
I love the monochromatic.
Lucio Fontana, when I saw his retrospective at the Guggenheim, that was moving.
One of my favorite artists is Robert Ryman his whole life he was troubled by using color.
He tried to figure out a way not to use it.
This Daniel Turner glass piece has pride of place in the living room.
He inspires me a lot.
Hes based in Brooklyn, but I first saw him when I was in Berlin at a gallery show.
For one work [Particle Processed Cafeteria], he bought a cafeteria, ground it into a powder, dissolved the powder into liquid, and then he sprayed that liquid onto the floor.
It left a beautiful rust stain.
Is it awkward to collect him and be his close friend, too?
The thing that interests me most is artists who are alive, and I dont collect from a living artist that I dont really like, as a person.
Life is too short.
While it has become ordinary for Western designers to jet to the East for inspiration (and the less-expensive work of skilled craftsmen), Barkowski approaches her work differently: Having embedded herself deep in Southeast Asia and Northern Africa, she doesnt merely infuse her designs with exotic elements.
She begins with the techniques themselves, whether stitching or motifs or fabrics.
To my mind, this only works if you live in the place, she says.
Otherwise it shows in what you make.
Her cotton bedsheets, for example, are trimmed with tiny pompoms secured with a sewing technique from northern Morocco that ensures they dont fall off.
WHEN BARKOWSKI IS in Marrakesh, she spends most of her time at Dar Kawa, built in the early 1700s.
She bought the riad a wreck in 1996, after first visiting the city five years earlier, when it was far less tourist-friendly.
I developed a crush on this place, which was so wild compared to where I had grown up, she says.
To restore the 1,950-square-foot courtyard home, she hired the modernist Belgian architect Quentin Wilbaux, who has won acclaim for his reimaginings of Moroccan riads and his meticulous cataloging of the citys houses.
Together, they created a dramatic yet inviting whitewashed oasis that Barkowski outfitted sparely with sculptural furniture in black metal and cedar, paired with her own charcoal linens.
Photo For much of the previous decade, she lived in this riad.
The artists residency she ran, Sahart, meant the house was often full of painters, photographers and sculptors who stayed for 2-month-long stints in a nearby house and at her desert camp near the Algerian border; in exchange, they were asked only to leave behind a piece of work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In 2008, she converted the riad into a four-bedroom hotel.
Though its not rentable through the usual online booking sites, it has become particularly popular among like-minded Scandinavian, Swiss and Japanese travelers who want a minimal take on Marrakeshs maximal charm.
(Theres a tribe who finds out about it through word of mouth, she says.)
Barkowski and her husband now live in a modest, simply renovated home near the Palmeraie, a desert oasis about a 30-minute drive from the medina.
Like Scottsdale, Ariz., the area is carved from a once-glorious landscape thousands of date palms were planted during the 11th century but has since become a showplace for fortresslike mansions and private golf clubs.
Photo But Barkowskis house is from an older time, she says of the 1,900-square foot, 30s-era French colonial bungalow.
When the couple moved in, she brought some raw wood packing pallets to use as bed-frames, a stopgap until she bought real furniture.
But she has instead kept them, adding flea-market finds, including tables made from old doors, and textiles in a subdued pale-earth palette, flecked with red accents.
What sold her on the place was the tree: a 50-foot Pistacia atlantica is the propertys dominant feature, planted about 300 years ago.
With deep roots that ferret out water, such trees were once common in North Africa, but most have been lost to deforestation.
From its darkly fissured boughs, Barkowski has hung simplified versions of typical Moroccan tin lanterns.
Below them is a seating area and a table draped in No-Mad fabrics, where she serves guests dishes like aubergine salad with pomegranate seeds and yogurt.
Otherwise, the propertys main features are sunlight and space: a luxury in busy Marrakesh or anywhere.
The city is a madness of color and shape, and my mind never stops with ideas, Barkowski says.
When I come here, I want a void.
Her goal was to create a home so balanced that, with little more than a mattress on the floor covered in good linens, of course there would be a sense of arid beauty and timeless serenity.
In Europe its cold and you are surrounded by elaborate elegance, she says.
Here, how much do you really need?
The team asked museums and galleries across Europe and in the United States if they could take samples from their alabaster artwork for chemical analysis.
They all said yes, allowing the team to investigate the origins of several royal and papal tomb figures, as well as the 14th century Carrying of the Cross from the Louvre, the 14th century the Archangel Gabriel from an Annunciation Group from the Cleveland Museum of Art and a 17th century seated greyhound originally from a gallery in London.
Photo But the team had to collect samples as carefully as possible to avoid scarring the priceless works of art.
They could not drill.
They could not scrape.
Instead, they used a tiny chisel to collect just a flake that measured only two millimeters from the base or rear of each statue.
At their lab, the scientists analyzed the flakes for sulfur, oxygen and strontium isotopes.
Such signatures are fingerprints that made it possible to match the flakes to their original alabaster quarries.
Of the 66 samples, 15 came from a quarry in the English Midlands to the west of Nottingham and three came from northern Spain.
Both were historically well-known as centers for the alabaster trade.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The alabastermen of the English Midlands are believed to have provided the material from the 12th century until 1550 when religious icons were banned during a period of civil and religious turmoil in Britain known as the English Reformation, when the Church of England broke away from the Roman Catholic Church.
Many of the works were destroyed in this period.
Shiploads of alabaster artwork escaped the furnaces and were sent to France.
This exchange was long thought to be one of the primary sources of the countrys alabaster.
Photo But to the teams surprise more than 20 of the statues they analyzed originated from near Notre-Dame-de-Msage in the western French Alps.
The quarry there operated for more than five centuries, supplying material for some of western Europes most important artworks.
We did not know that this was really a major source of alabaster in western Europe, said Dr. Kloppmann.
We discovered the French part of the story.
Jane A. Evans, an isotope geochemist from the British Geological Survey who was not involved in the study, called the paper well-constructed and said the technique could be extended to look at a wider range of carvings from differing periods, and they could extend their fingerprinting methods to incorporate other isotope and geochemical methods.
Dr. Kloppmann said the next steps for their work is to analyze alabaster in Germany, Poland and Italy and perhaps from ancient Mesopotamia, as well as use their technique to detect alabaster fakes.
Photo The fledging art institution Philadelphia Contemporary may not yet have a home, but it now has an artistic director: Nato Thompson, currently the artistic director Creative Time.
Mr. Thompson, who has been with Creative Time for a decade, will assume his new position in November, and aim to guide the institution as it moves from pop-up projects into a permanent building in Philadelphia.
Philadelphia Contemporary was founded last year by Harry Philbrick, who was previously the director of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
It has hosted various events and installations around the city, including poetry readings, midnight vigils, sculptures and an interactive art project with Emma Sulkowicz.
Were working on what the mission is, Mr. Thompson said in a phone interview.
Certainly we know it will be a noncollecting institution.
It will be multidisciplinary and civically-driven.
He said he does not yet have any projects planned, or even a proposed budget to work with.
The organization aims to move into a space in 2021 or 2022, and produce site-specific works around the city until then.
Mr. Thompson hopes to showcase both local and international art, and contribute to a growing Philadelphia art scene to complement pillars like the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
This is a city where its very important to support the local arts community, Mr. Thompson said.
Its got a great underground arts scene.
But that said, I dont want to become provincial.
Mr. Thompson wont have to move far: He already lives in Philadelphia, and had been commuting to Creative Time in Manhattan.
While there, he oversaw projects like Kara Walkers A Subtlety in 2014.
I was eager to make a change, Mr. Thompson said.
Ive been doing public art for quite some time: its really, really intense work.
For Creative Time, this represents yet another turnover in leadership.
Its longtime executive director, Anne Pasternak, moved on to the Brooklyn Museum in 2015; her successor, Katie Hollander, stepped down this year.
The organization will now search for an executive director and an artistic director at the same time.
Amanda Weil, a Creative Time board member who served as board chairwoman for nine years, said Mr. Thompsons departure was part of a natural progression of the organization, and that the health of the organization is strong.
This is yet another example of the degree to which our Creative Time people move on to other institutions and become thought leaders, she said.
For relaxing by a fire, almost nothing is cozier than a wingback chair.
They are extremely comfortable, said Shawn Henderson, an interior designer in New York.
And with sides that wrap around to cradle the body, they create this sense of being in a cocoon.
But comfort isnt the only reason to have one.
I love the sculptural form that they bring to a room, said Mr. Henderson, who puts wingback chairs in most of the homes he designs for clients and has many in his own weekend house in Hillsdale, N.Y.
I have one in almost every room guest bedroom, master, living room and family room.
Used alone, a wingback chair can be that single interesting chair in a room, he said.
And multiples can make an even stronger statement: A pair of wingback chairs flanking a fireplace is awesome.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story How relaxed should it be?
Consider how you want to feel, Mr. Henderson said.
There are upright ones that sit a little more proper, but if you want lounge-y and laid-back, there are others that fit that requirement.
By turning the works into a kind of play, she could use her artistic mind to imagine how things were in the past, said Mirjam Knotter, the curator of the Amsterdam exhibition, which opened on Friday and runs through March 25.
Although, Ms. Knotter added, It was an entirely unique artwork, which was not meant to be played or performed.
Photo Salomon, born in Berlin in 1917, came from an upper-middle-class Jewish family and watched as the world she had known as a child disintegrated when Hitler came to power.
She was a reserved child, but she clearly had a turbulent and passionate inner life with an astute visual memory, imprinting everything for future use, according to her biographer Mary L. Felstiner.
Images she later painted of this period reveal a wry, bitter humor.
Hitlers election to chancellor in 1933 is illustrated with rows of faceless Brownshirts, painted in muddy Expressionist streaks.
The swastika on a flag is reversed, a sly attempt to neutralize its power.
Photo The terror of Kristallnacht the night in 1938 when Jewish homes, schools and businesses across Germany were ransacked made it clear that the Salomon family was no longer safe, and Charlotte, then 22, was sent to live with her maternal grandparents in the South of France.
It was there that her grandmother killed herself, an event that led to the shattering revelation of a long line of suicides by women in the family, including, most devastatingly to Salomon, her mother, whom she had thought died of influenza.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With her grandfather taunting that she would be next, Salomon embarked on artistic creations in a bid to stave off what she saw as a family tendency toward self-destruction, inspired by the ideas of Alfred Wolfsohn, her stepmothers vocal coach, who she had known in Berlin.
Having suffered acute trauma during World War I, he had developed theories of the curative power of creativity that had a lasting influence on her.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It is unclear if Wolfsohn and Salomon were lovers.
If you look at the paintings, you kind of assume it, Ms. Knotter said.
Indeed their affair, whether real or imagined, takes up most of the central portion of the Life?
or Theater?
series.
But after the war her stepmother dismissed any notion of romance between the two as fantasy.
Resolving to go deep into herself in order to make sense of her life and the chaos around her, Salomon shut herself away and, in a frenzy of creative activity, painted almost 1,400 gouaches from 1940 to 1943.
The musical references which accompany the work refer to the music she was hearing in her mind while she was creating the paintings, Ms. Knotter explains.
Salomon hummed as she worked to jog her memory, noting which song a painting was inspired by on the rear of the paper.
The paintings, text and musical references then edited into a play structure, complete with chorus, in which she and her family appear under the guise of humorous pseudonyms.
She is the painter and the director of the play, Ms. Knotter said, but she is also using the role of the choir, who are commanding all the events, even the character who is an alter ego of herself.
For Griselda Pollock, the author of a major study of Salomons work, the artists need to dramatize her past had a purpose: to help her uncover a history of sexual abuse by her grandfather which may have included Salomon among the victims that Ms. Pollock believes provoked the Salomon familys many suicides.
The exhibition contains a recently discovered addition to Life?
or Theater?, a painted letter, kept secret by her family for decades, in which Salomon appears to confess to killing her grandfather, which may give credence to the theory.
However, given that Salomons work so clearly blends fact with fiction we are unlikely to ever know if she actually did.
One thing that does seem clear is Salomons desire to survive.
The final image of Life?
Or Theater?
shows her in a bright green bathing suit, facing the sea, a paintbrush in hand.
It is as if she had painted her past, real or imagined, so that she could turn to her future.
Photo But perhaps she sensed she wouldnt be able to.
Feeling a growing sense of unease as World War II raged on, Salomon packed up her work and left it with a doctor in the summer of 1943, asking him to keep it safe, as she said it contained my whole life.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Shortly afterward, Salomon, then 26, was deported to Auschwitz.
She was killed on arrival.
Her journey to public recognition has been a long one.
But perhaps the Amsterdam exhibition will shine a light on what, in the words of Ms. Pollock, was an extraordinarily brilliant artist, creating a work under conditions where you couldnt think anyone would create anything.
LONDON A letter written by an American first-class passenger aboard the Titanic sold on Saturday at auction for 126,000 pounds, a record price for a note written by someone on the ill-fated ocean liner.
Alexander Oskar Holverson, a salesman, wrote the letter to his mother on April 13, 1912, on embossed Titanic stationery and tucked it away in his pocketbook.
In it, Mr. Holverson describes a giant ship fitted up like a palacial hotel.
He also mentions seeing the millionaire John Jacob Astor sitting on a deck of the vessel: He looks like any other human being even tho he has millions of money.
In the most poignant mention, Mr. Holverson writes, If all goes well we will arrive in New York Wednesday A.M. Advertisement Continue reading the main story The next day, the British passenger ship hit an iceberg and eventually sank, killing more than 1,500 people.
Emily Sarokin may not have completely understood how a major auction house worked when she joined Christies New York six years ago.
I thought it was Antiques Roadshow, Ms. Sarokin, the vice president and director for gallery operations and client services, said in an interview at the Rockefeller Center gallery, laughing at herself as she prepared for the Fine Chinese Ceramics and Works of Art auction in mid-September.
I had no idea.
She knows now that it is an immense machine.
In 2016, there were 84 sales and more than 100 exhibitions at Christies New York location alone.
They involved art and other precious goods worth about 1.5 billion pounds.
That is almost $2 billion (but employees tend to think in British currency because the head office is in London, where the company was founded in 1766).
The number of details involved in creating any one of those events in 57,000 square feet of Midtown exhibition space is complicated.
Ms. Sarokin, 29, described working intensely and constantly with shippers, contractors, riggers, lawyers and (of course) the art handlers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A thousand decisions, visions and revisions are involved: What humidity level does this piece require?
How long will that shipment take to get through customs in Hong Kong?
What do we do when a client calls and says, Im in town, I have 30 minutes before lunch, and I want to see this $30 million painting?
Theres a special luminosity to this place, Robert Fitzpatrick, the former director and chief executive of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, said of the Grand Palais.
I see things Ive seen at other fairs, but they sparkle here.
Photo Mr. Fitzpatrick might have added that Paris is also the birthplace of modern art, a heritage exemplified by the current Picasso 1932: Anne rotique exhibition of Marie-Therese Walter paintings at the Muse National Picasso-Paris.
While the commercial hyperactivity of this years Frieze Week drew plenty of American collectors to London, the FIAC crowd, as usual, was conspicuously weighted toward continental Europe.
We wanted to expose Henry to a European audience, said Tim Blum, co-founder of the gallery Blum & Poe, whose solo presentation of works by the acclaimed African-American artist Henry Taylor was among the most visited booths at FIAC.
All eight of the new large-scale figure paintings Mr. Taylor made for the fair, priced between $80,000 and $110,000, found buyers within three hours of the preview.
A 2011 sculptural installation of household objects, Its like a jungle, that formed the centerpiece of the booth, was reserved for a buyer at $200,000.
Blum & Poe were among 106 established international galleries exhibiting on the ground floor of the Grand Palais.
Upstairs, more than 80 dealers were presenting works by emerging or neglected artists, in an equivalent to the more affordable Focus section at Frieze London.
Frieze and FIAC complement each other, said the London collector Anita Zabludowicz, while browsing the Paris fair.
At Frieze the galleries are purposeful and focused.
Here, its more about engaging with art.
And dealers are more experimental in the Upper Galleries section at FIAC, which I find rewarding.
Photo That said, in the current risk-averse climate, many collectors have become more reluctant to gamble on little-known names.
An award always helps.
This month, the Berlin-based Lebanese sound and installation artist Lawrence Abu Hamdan was awarded the $100,000 Abraaj Group Art Prize.
The Paris dealer Mor Charpentier was showing Mr. Hamdans powerful 2016 lightbox piece Saydnaya (the missing 19db), documenting, in visual terms, the spoken memories of survivors from a prison in Syria where many executions have taken place.
Priced at 7,500 euros, or about $8,800, each, four examples from a total edition of five sold to collectors from Europe, Latin America, and the United States.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Away from the main event of a Frieze or a FIAC, satellite fairs also remain a key determiner of whether a city is worth the price of a plane ticket.
London, for example, has the 1.54 fair of contemporary African art; Paris has Asia Now and Paris Internationale.
Founded by the French collector Claude Fain and his daughter Alexandra, Asia Now is Europes first boutique fair devoted exclusively to contemporary Asian art.
The events third edition previewed on Tuesday in a rambling 19th-century mansion near the Arc de Triomphe.
Im on a crazy carousel, said the Kuala Lumpur gallerist Richard Koh, referring to the global merry-go-round of international art fairs.
This year, his gallery has also participated at fairs in Jakarta, Indonesia; Basel, Switzerland; Hong Kong, New York and Singapore.
But theres always a certain allure to Paris, and the collectors here are more receptive to looking at Asian art, said Mr. Koh, one of 33 dealers exhibiting at the fair.
Reflecting the current mood of many contemporary art dealers, Mr. Koh described business as very slow after the speculative excesses of the boom (and bust) in abstract art by young practitioners three or four years ago.
He remained eager to promote his stable of young Malaysian artists, albeit at measured price points.
A green and blue abstract by the Kuala Lumpur-based painter Yeoh Choo Chan, 28, was sold in transit to Asia Now, via Artsy.net, for $12,000.
Photo It was a sign of our current collecting times that one of the most talked-about artists at the funky pop-up Paris Internationale fair was not an American 20-something, but a rediscovered Dutch painter born in 1939.
This years edition of the dealer-organized event previewed on Tuesday in the Brutalist chic setting of a converted parking garage in the Haut-Marais.
Like a sort of grunge version of the Guggenheim Museum in New York, the buildings concrete ramp rose through five floors of presentations from 72 emerging galleries, culminating in a rooftop terrace with a spectacular view of Paris.
The Los Angeles gallery Chteau Shatto was showing works by Jacqueline de Jong, an abstract painter who in the 1960s was a member of the anticapitalist Situationist International movement.
In recent years, she has been living in rural France.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The centerpiece of Chteau Shattos display of Ms. de Jongs work was the monumental 1987 canvas Ceux qui vont en bateau, showing a dreamlike scene of fighting animals.
Reminiscent in style of both German Expressionist and Cobra painting, this work is now on offer to a European foundation.
In an event where most works were 10,000 or less, it was priced at 65,000.
This is not a euphoric period, said Jennifer Flay, director of FIAC, describing the mood among contemporary art dealers.
Everyone understands the natural fluctuations of the market.
Its difficult to survive as a young gallery.
However, FIAC Week, like its London equivalent, gives both emerging and established galleries the opportunity to engage with an international audience.
But now Britain has begun negotiations to leave the European Union, and Christies and Sothebys are expanding their auctions in Paris.
On Thursday night, Christies sold a version of the Alberto Giacometti sculpture Grande femme II to a telephone bidder for 24.9 million, a price higher than any achieved in London during the most recent Frieze Week auctions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To be sure, the international art fair calendar is a merry-go-round.
But in the changing geopolitical climate, will Paris be the horse collectors increasingly want to choose?
I know every artist says this, but I was always making stuff as a kid, she said.
Plus, you could win a few bucks of prize money and youd get into the fair for free.
The ritual would begin each August with daily trips to the mailbox to check for the Durham Fairs entry booklet, which contained the long list of craft categories that would guide Ms. Macks plan of attack.
(Soap carving and pumpkin decoration were among her favorites.)
Photo That annual tradition has evolved through many twists and turns into Junk Kaleidoscope, a phrase that Amy Smith-Stewart, the Aldrichs curator, likes to think of as a ruptured view of the world through everyday cultural artifacts, she said recently while installing the show.
Photo Hung in frames, displayed on shelves, or arranged in domestic-scaled installations, Ms. Macks new work quietly exudes the motley variety of a craft show crossed with a fair exhibition hall in its mix of stained glass, gilding, silk flowers, neon lights and lots of denim.
There are references to early sideshow banners, commemorative wreaths, needlepoint samplers, teen longing, and American heartthrobs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Im interested in my body of work looking like the things that came out of the fair, not in their craftiness, but in their diversity, said Ms. Mack, who cites as inspirations Ree Morton (1936-1977), Rosemarie Trockel and Robert Gober, artists known for their idiosyncratic use of various materials.
She returns to the Durham Fair almost every year and took road trips to visit state fairs through the Southeast and the northern Midwest.
Fairs are great sources for images, she said, while assuring me that she is not obsessed.
What she does obsess over, she explained, is their collections of things, the categorization, their repetitive nature.
Fittingly, a large poster-size list hangs at the entrance to the main gallery at the Aldrich, enumerating 73 categories.
Photo The evolution of the kind of official list that Ms. Mack would eagerly pore over as a kid, the show at the Aldrich mixes existing competition categories, like #14 Wood, three-dimensional construction with more ambiguous entries, like #38 My heart wants more and #55 After the fact.
Photo The list is also a link to the exhibitions pivotal origins, Ms. Macks epic project, The Fair (staged in 1996 and 2006).
Fresh out of the Tyler School of Art in Philadelphia, where she earned her M.F.A.
in sculpture, Ms. Mack decided to enter all 73 craft categories in the Durham Fair.
It was an act of near-manic D.I.Y.
industriousness, done in the name of art rather than heartlandish moral rectitude.
She taught herself leather tooling, screen-printing and chair caning, and won dozens of ribbons.
Art gave me this framework to put around the fair, this permission to allow myself to allocate an insane amount of time to making crafts all summer, every day, two crafts a day, while working a full-time temp job, she recalled.
Real Art Ways, a nonprofit art space in Hartford, showed the items adorned with their ribbons.
The following year, Postmasters Gallery in New York showed the project.
Photo In 2006, Ms. Mack was at it again, entering all 69 craft categories of the Durham Fair.
That second time it was more about using repetition, remaking, and memorialization to think about how I was processing these familiar images and experiences, she said.
Ten years later, she was planning Junk Kaleidoscope, fleshing out her interest in commemoration.
All the work in the show came from either a memory I have or an image I saw, maybe a very specific object I walked by, she explained.
But theyre not exact reproductions, theyre combinations of a few things.
Photo There are several wreath motifs in the show, including Conn Con, from 2017, a large ring of straw festooned with ornamental corn.
Its the kind of regional homage that one might find at the fair, but also an allusion to the false impression of household bliss that the mastery of the domestic arts might imply.
How you decorate your house, your curb appeal it was all very important where I grew up, said Ms. Mack, who now has work in the collections of the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Seattle Art Museum, among others.
Ms. Smith-Stewart, who came across the artists work in a group show at MoMA PS1 in 2002, while working as an assistant curator, said: Anissa is interested in the storytelling power of objects, and many of the works have a narrative that can be pieced together differently depending on the audience.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Macks list is a gathering of ideas that have been percolating in her psyche over the years.
#45 Amy, Amy, anyone, for instance, refers to the artists childhood fascination with Amy Carter.
I was so curious about her, said Ms. Mack, who still has the straight red hair, sprinkling of freckles and gently angular features she shared back then with Americas First Kid.
She was my ageish, but a little older.
And she sort of looked like me.
Photo Ms. Mack hasnt tackled the subject of Amy Carter quite yet, but that doesnt matter.
The list, for her, is a live document for future work.
It can be a catalyst (or excuse) to make something new, or a way of understanding something shes already made.
Everything in the show refers to something on the list, she explained, but some might match three, and some categories, like Americana, might cover everything.
Everyones favorite angel, 2017, for instance, a pencil sketch of Farrah Fawcett drawn on a canvas that the artist has molded to look like white denim, could be #20 Best of the best, #33 I never thought shed take his last name, or #60 Locations, actors, obstacles.
Wreath, from 2017, is a good example of how Ms. Mack might bundle together different impressions into a cohesive work.
It revolves around a story she read in the paper last year about a terminally ill 14-year-old British girl whose last wish was to be cryogenically frozen.
The artist printed the condensed tale, word by word, on the surface of around 300 resin-cast rings (tiny wreaths, if you will), and then arranged them among dozens of inexpensive vintage rings in a rectangular grid of foam slots, the kind of display she frequently sees at fairs and flea markets.
Photo The work shows how nuanced Ms. Macks state fair resonances can be.
The girls story reminded me of the midway, she said.
Its this place of incredible hope, where you might win this huge stuffed thing, but you also kind of know youre going to lose.
A white neon sign casting cold light in a dark side gallery transports viewers to the midways fleeting alley of rickety rides and ringtoss stands.
It reads FACTS FAKES FREAKS.
Ms. Mack didnt have political intentions when she made the sign last year the wording came from an old sideshow banner she had seen.
But the relevance today doesnt escape her.
The emotions generated in the space of the midway are things that really play out in other parts of American culture, she said.
The pride of winning something for someone else, the showing off, the hucksterism.
Its all right there.
Advertisement 2017: The Biggest Year in Horror History We tracked horrors rise at the box office over the decades.
This year, led by It and Get Out, really has outpaced all others.
Image Pennywise (played by Bill Skarsgard) in "It," which has been a smash success at the box office.
Credit Brooke Palmer/Warner Bros.
This year, scary clowns, scary dolls and scary suburbanites have drawn audiences to the movies in droves.
Even with two months remaining, 2017 has already become the biggest box office year ever for horror.
Scary movies have collected $733 million in ticket sales, according to the website Box Office Mojo .
The runaway success of It (more than $300 million and counting) and Get Out ($175 million) led the way, but October is a golden month for horror and will surely add more to that tally.
Happy Death Day was No.
1 when it opened this month (on Friday the 13th), and a new entry in the hit Saw franchise, Jigsaw (due Oct. 27), should also raise the total.
How has horror fared at the box office in previous decades?
Going back to the 1970s, I used data from Box Office Mojo to track the genres rise as a moneymaking force, focusing on one key year from each decade.
Box Office Mojo breaks horror down into 10 subcategories on its site and its editor, Brad Brevet, has struggled with the question of what constitutes a horror movie.
He tried to bring some clarity with a new list.
When It came out I created an R-rated horror list on Mojo, he wrote in an email.
That, at least, felt representative of the horror genre.
We used the R-rated list as a reference point, but the highest-grossing year for each decade is based on figures collected from all the films the site considers horror.
Also, these numbers have not been adjusted for inflation (which would turn The Exorcist into a $983 million earner).
The 1970s Biggest Year: 1973, $232.9 million Image Linda Blair in "The Exorcist," with a box office take that dwarfed that of all other horror films in the '70s.
Credit Warner Bros.
In the early 1970s, horror broke into the mainstream in a big way, primarily with the astronomical success of The Exorcist in 1973, which alone topped the collective total of any box office year in the decade.
That movie aside, horror didnt make much of an impression that year.
And it was really films released later in the decade that would prove pivotal.
The popularity of Halloween in 1978 ($47 million) showed that slasher films could be a force.
And 1979 brought the blockbuster haunted house scares of The Amityville Horror ($86.4 million) and the influential space scares of Alien ($80.9 million).
That film captured a mass audience with a return of sorts to the creature features of classic horror.
The 1980s Biggest Year: 1987, $293.6 million Image Freddy (Robert Englund) was still going strong in "A Nightmare on Elm Street 3."
Credit New Line Cinema The slasher genre came into its own in the 80s, with the introduction of Jason in Friday the 13th (1980) and Freddy in A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984).
Those franchises produced buckets of blood and cash ($380.6 million total for Friday and $370.5 million for Elm Street).
1987 was one of the decades most profitable.
Elm Street was in its third installment ($44 million), The Lost Boys added young vampire thrills to the mix ($32 million) and the action horror of Predator (a movie that probably wouldnt have existed without the success of Alien) brought in strong numbers ($59 million).
The 1990s Biggest Year: 1999, $574.6 million Image Heather Donahue in the found-footage hit "The Blair Witch Project."
Credit Artisan Entertainment The early part of the 90s saw few major horror blockbusters.
Daniel Loria, the editorial director of Boxoffice Media , cites the rise of home video in the late 80s as the reason for the dip.
In a phone interview, he said that many horror films bypassed theaters for home video.
A B-side horror film like The Texas Chain Saw Massacre might not have played in theaters had it been made in the late 80s or early 90s, he said.
It might have just gone straight to video for a quick buck.
Things looked up in the latter half of the decade, with the revival of the slasher genre through the Scream franchise ($331.7 million).
And then, 1999 brought a new revolution via The Blair Witch Project, a lowest-of-budgets found-footage movie shot on video that scared up a phenomenal $140.5 million, along with many copycats.
The Aughts Biggest Year: 2000, $617.7 million Image A scene from "Scream 3," released in 2000, a strong year for horror at the box office.
Credit Dimension Films The 2000s began by coasting on a wave of Scream popularity.
While that franchise added sequels, the 2000 parody Scary Movie pulled in $157 million.
(It ranked No.
9 for the year, followed by the high-end horror drama What Lies Beneath at No.
10.)
Later during this decade, found footage was replaced by slick yet gruesome torture horror like the Saw films, which have taken in $415.9 million so far.
And reboots of earlier horror movies became a trend.
2009 featured a number of these films, including a reboot of Friday the 13th, a sequel to a reboot of Halloween and the sixth entry in the Saw series.
But the jaw-dropper that year wasParanormal Activity.
A return to low-budget found footage, the film had a $15,000 production budget , according to Box Office Mojo, and made $107.9 million.
The 2010s Biggest Year: 2017, $733.5 million Image Daniel Kaluuya in "Get Out," Jordan Peele's hit from earlier this year.
Credit Universal Pictures 2017 has seen several strong performers from one of the most successful contemporary horror producers around, Jason Blum (Get Out, Split, Happy Death Day).
But the biggest story is the tremendous run of It.
That Stephen King adaptation perked up the domestic box office after a dismal August, and not even box office experts predicted just how well the movie would perform.
Mr. Loria of Boxoffice Media said his team forecast an $81 million opening weekend.
The real number was $123 million.
He said they look at social media mentions to see how vocal audiences are being about a title.
When it came to It, Mr. Loria said, it was just really difficult to track the word It across social media to get the snapshot we needed.
Photo Suburbicon, a jaundiced, hard-sell comedy, wants you to know that the American dream was always a crock.
This may not be news, even in the movie industry, which loves white-picket fences in principle but remains a gated community in fact.
Still, every so often a filmmaker restates the case for the prosecution.
The latest complainant is George Clooney, who in directing Suburbicon has turned back the clock to the 1950s for a story about the good old American days of prosperity and prejudice, of race hate and white people who are always just one clenched fist away from becoming a mob.
The title refers to the ticky-tacky Potemkin suburb where it all goes down.
You know the place: Its as American as apple pie and quiet desperation.
Its the post-World War II wasteland with the identical homes, lawns and faces that has been grist for critique and caricature, novels and movies, ever since suburbs were invented.
In Little Boxes, a 1960s lament about conformity, Pete Seeger warbles about that sprawling wasteland, where all the boys go into business and marry and raise a family.
That these little boxes look a lot like coffins gives his song the tenor of a dirge, one that Suburbicon delivers anew with cruel laughter, violent enthusiasm and acres of dark-wood paneling.
Matt Damon plays Gardner Lodge, some kind of executive who has his own office and secretary at work and a wife, Rose (Julianne Moore), and son, Nicky (a good, appealing Noah Jupe), at home.
It all looks neat and tidy, especially Suburbicon, a planned community dotted with houses as square as Gardners sack suits and yards that look as if theyd been landscaped using a compass and protractor.
There are a few midcentury modern flourishes, but the sheer, overriding, bland whiteness underscores that this entire world has been drawn along the antiseptic lines of a period sitcom like Father Knows Best rather than a riposte like Mad Men.
Video The story opens just as the Mayerses, Suburbicons first black family, move into the area, an event the neighborhood treats as a collective home invasion.
Women whisper and stare, men sputter and rage, and soon all their white faces have gone red.
Before long, unneighborly clusters begin gathering around the familys home, edging around the perimeter and transforming it into a kind of stage.
And then the fences go up, and the clusters develop into a pack.
The whispers morph into jeers, and the progressively, dangerously impatient crowd howls for the show to begin.
Any resemblance to the audience watching Suburbicon is as intentional as it is obvious.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Clooney, who wrote the movie with Grant Heslov reworking a script by Ethan and Joel Coen has embraced symmetry as his guiding principle.
Everything looks picture perfect in Suburbicon, and the story is so ordered that at first the movie seems to be a tale of two families, twinned peoples whose only sons dress alike and play catch in yards that face each other as if mirrored images.
That there arent any movie stars in the Mayers family, though, is an early sign that all isnt quite as balanced as it seems.
Karimah Westbrook has a few good moments as Mrs. Mayers, but Leith Burke, as Mr. Mayers, barely says a word.
Tony Espinosa has more to do as the couples son, Andy.
But its not so simple.
While Christian is willing to admit fault, he also feels compelled to note that the problem isnt just a matter of his own thoughtlessness.
(Im refraining from saying what he did, since, like everything else that happens in The Square, its too surprising to spoil and too weird to explain.)
There are social forces and economic structures at work, he says, large historical tendencies that both extend and extenuate his guilt.
Immigration.
Inequality.
Social alienation.
Global capitalism.
That kind of thing.
Christian knows a billionaire a donor to the museum who might be able to throw enough money at the problem to solve it.
But even then Is there a saying about fish that live in glass barrels shooting themselves in the foot?
Mr. Ostlund, whose film before this one was the squirmy, incisive Force Majeure, takes aim at some pretty fat satirical targets art, taste, sex and money, for starters and sprays buckshot at the audience as well as in his own face.
The bad conscience of the cultural elite is hardly a new concern in European cinema (or American journalism, if we want to go there), and The Square, which won the Palme dOr in May, uses some of the shock-the-bourgeoisie tactic refined, in recent years, by his fellow Cannes laureates Michael Haneke and Lars von Trier.
If Mr. Ostlund lacks Mr. Hanekes rigor and Mr. von Triers sadism, he at least has a sense of humor.
The Square, ragged and headlong, plays like a series of elaborately staged sketch-comedy routines.
Or, closer to its own concerns, like an anthology of performance art pieces.
Just about everything that happens to Christian has a conceptual dimension, an element of coy self-consciousness, that makes you wonder whether its just something that happened or a carefully planned and theorized happening.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Literally speaking, of course, the movie is a string of such events, though it manages to fool, or at least to tease, the characters as well as the viewers.
The robbery that sets the main plot in motion seems at first like an art-world provocation, and before he quite understands what has happened, Christian experiences the kind of thrill that art is supposed to elicit.
His one night stand with an American journalist (Elisabeth Moss) is not so thrilling, but its very awkwardness has an arch, knowing quality.
Staff meetings at the museum have a similar feel.
Is the baby whom one of Christians colleagues brings into the room really his child?
Is its presence a commentary on the persistence of innocence in a fallen world?
What about Christians own daughters?
Can any human action or feeling be called natural or real?
Photo The most relevant movie precursor to Thank You for Your Service, an earnest and powerful drama about Iraq veterans returning to Kansas, is not The Hurt Locker, or the well-meaning but toothless coming-home dramas released during the Bush years (Stop-Loss, The Lucky Ones), or even American Sniper, written by Jason Hall, who wrote the screenplay for this film, his feature directing debut.
Its Of Men and War, a 2015 documentary shot at the Pathway Home in Yountville, Calif., a center designed to reacclimate veterans to civilian life and also where one of the characters in Thank You for Your Service winds up.
Of Men and War demanded that viewers witness the psychic scars of fighting, measuring them as part of wars cost along with the dead and more visibly wounded.
Mr. Hall, working in a more sentimental, multiplex-friendly mode, makes the same point here.
The movie is partly adapted from the well-received 2013 book by The Washington Posts David Finkel, who followed survivors of a battalion he had chronicled in an earlier book.
Working freehandedly, Mr. Hall contrives motivations and friendships for dramatic effect.
(One of the main three returning soldiers in the movie, played by Joe Cole, who arrives in Kansas only to learn that his fiance has left him, has been added to the mix.)
Video The central protagonist is Adam Schumann (Miles Teller, convincingly tough), who still instinctively scans American roadsides for bombs just as he did in Iraq.
He has missed crucial time with his wife (Haley Bennett, whose character and performance go beyond sympathetic-wife clichs) and young children.
He is haunted by two incidents for which he feels responsible: his imperfect rescue of a comrade shot in the head, seen in a prologue, and another death, revealed only gradually, that left his wifes friend Amanda Doster (Amy Schumer, in a successfully counterintuitive bit of casting) a widow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The other principal character is Tausolo Aeiti (Beulah Koale, a newcomer), who suffers from crippling memory loss that hampers daily functioning.
As with Adam, part of Tausolos trouble is admitting his problems to himself.
The movie argues that the military stifles such breakthroughs on two fronts: first with a culture that encourages stoicism, second with a failure to provide prompt medical care for veterans.
Striving for the elusive goal of political neutrality, Mr. Hall has made a less jingoistic film than American Sniper (in the combat sequences, villainous Iraqis have been replaced with faceless ones).
Instead, Thank You for Your Service is a macho weepie, whose message that wars are permanent for those who fight in them has broad appeal.
Photo In Halloween-season viewing prospects, theres good news and less-good news.
The good news is that two stellar restorations of stone-cold horror classics were released recently.
They are the amazing, amusing The Old Dark House, a 1932 horror comedy directed by James Whale, the maestro of Frankenstein and Bride of Frankenstein, and George A. Romeros seminal 1968 Night of the Living Dead, which had a long road to a beautiful new version.
The less-good news is that these restorations are not yet available for streaming, but are likely to show up in time.
The Living Dead restoration is distributed by Janus, whose stuff is regularly featured on the Criterion Channel of the service Filmstruck and Kanopy.
(In the meantime, if they show up at a theater near you, I implore you to go.)
Filmstruck is actually an excellent site for vintage horror this Halloween.
Earlier this month the service featured premieres of six 1940s horror movies produced by Val Lewton for RKO Pictures.
Lewton was a novelist-turned-producer of first-class taste, wide-ranging imagination and remarkable resourcefulness.
In emphasizing that taste, critics have risked giving his nine RKO horror movies short shrift in terms of their potency in the fright department.
While some Lewton pictures are more conventionally thrilling than others The Curse of the Cat People (1944) is an unusual kind of sequel and features a tone more poetic than spooky most of the movies still carry strong scares.
In the original Cat People (1942), the European immigrant Irena (Simone Simon), bride of a Norman-Rockwell-type all-American (Kent Smith) fears that her sexual awakening will turn her into a deadly feline creature.
The scenes of Irenas romantic rival Alice (Jane Randolph) seemingly stalked by a panther through Central Park and at an athletic club are still among the tensest ever executed in film.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Similarly, the director Jacques Tourneur, who was behind Cat People and I Walked With a Zombie (1943) gets an enormous amount of scare-mileage out of the sound of dripping water, a train going over a bridge and, finally, a bolted door and some terrifying sound effects in a stage-setting scene from The Leopard Man (1943).
Cat People, Zombie, Curse and Leopard Man are all part of the Filmstruck package.
The other two titles are The Body Snatcher (1945) and Bedlam (1946), both more horror-conventional in subject matter and star power.
The Body Snatcher is derived from the Robert Louis Stevenson story and stars both Boris Karloff of Frankenstein and Bela Lugosi of Dracula fame its one of only six movies the horror heavyweights made together.
A spectacularly ghoulish story of grave robbers and medical demonstrations in 19th-century Edinburgh, it builds to a dizzying pitch of delirium.
So does Bedlam, also starring Karloff, another grim period piece set in an asylum.
Because the Lewton productions were low-budget pictures meant to fill out double-features, theyre pretty concise, with not many reaching the 90-minute mark.
As such, the lot can serve as terrific Halloween binge-watching.
Before Dumbo, which he said he liked working on very much theres fire eaters and guys walking on balls and trapeze artists and Tim Burton running around with a stick.
Its genius Mr. Farrell was in Chicago filming Widows with Steve McQueen, and before that working on Roman J. Israel, Esq., with Denzel Washington.
And before that was The Beguiled, with Sofia Coppola, and The Killing of a Sacred Deer, which was shot last summer in Cincinnati and, of Mr. Farrells recent films, has perhaps affected him the most.
Written by Mr. Lanthimos with Efthymis Filippou, the film is far darker than The Lobster, and suffused with an increasingly claustrophobic dread.
Mr. Farrell adopted a monotone for the part similar to that of his Lobster role, but the characters similarity ends there.
David, his Lobster character, was doughy, inward, guileless and desperately lonely, all of which felt especially poignant coming from a live wire like Mr. Farrell, who said he felt great liberation in being so contained.
There was no attempt and no desire, as written, to be in any way cool, any way interesting, any way suave, he said.
But Steven, the heart surgeon he played in Killing, is cunning and arrogant, and by the end of the production, Mr. Farrell said, he felt very depressed.
Video He was drawn to the part by the same tug that drew him to The Lobster, finding brilliance in the twisted worlds Mr. Lanthimos creates.
And in Mr. Farrell, Mr. Lanthimos said he found a true creative partner.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its a gift to have that kind of relationship, its easier to go further and explore other things, Mr. Lanthimos said.
This was a challenge, something more different and complex and dark, and I knew he had the understanding and tone.
For all his work on big films, Mr. Farrell has long preferred smaller films anyway and the specific stories they can tell.
When Martin McDonagh approached him to play a hit man for In Bruges, basically throwing him a lifeline, he almost turned down the part.
Hed been in a string of bad movies and was still feeling the lingering burn of his Alexander the Great movie.
(Among the sharper barbs: He seems like a moody sad sack that I wouldnt follow to the grocery store much less into battle.)
He worried his name might scare people away.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. McDonagh persuaded him anyway.
The character needed to be lovable and appealing even though hes done something horrific and unforgivable, and its easy to love Colin, and to believe that sense of guilt he showed so well, Mr. McDonagh wrote by email.
Also, I dont think he ever really didnt want to do the part for a second!
For Mr. Farrell, it was a shaky time.
He was scant months out of rehab, having finally caved to his familys pressures to get straight.
Asked what hastened his bottoming out, Mr. Farrell quipped, Just existing.
But really, he added, it was the intensity of sudden fame, which came fast after Joel Schumacher cast him in Tigerland (2000) and then Phone Booth (2002).
Getting all these platitudes and things being said about you, and all these gifts, it wasnt in my DNA to believe any of this stuff, he said.
You try and match the hype, but I never believed it.
Mr. Farrell is from Castleknock, a relatively well-to-do Dublin suburb, and studied at the Gaiety School of Acting in Dublin before landing a role in 1998 on the BBC soap Ballykissangel.
He took the Irish national commandment of not getting ahead of yourself to Hollywood, foolishly and understandably, he now says, equating personal change with betraying his roots.
I remember making a promise to myself, Dont change, dont change, remember where you come from, he said, But change is inevitable.
You dont change, you get sickness, your life will fall apart on the inside.
His antics filled gossip pages, but he swears many of them were lost to blackouts.
I asked about the time he kissed a reporter on camera on the red carpet, and his eyes widened.
Did I?
Who?
Which one?
he asked.
I swear to God, I lost so much time.
A little while later, a button on my blouse popped, and as I quickly refastened it, he steadfastly held my gaze, and then pointed to his eyes.
I kept right here, the whole time, he teased.
Back in the day I wouldve leaned in for a kiss, obviously.
The exchange was light and playful, and the interview took place before The New York Times published its expos on the producer Harvey Weinstein, whose reported sexual misconduct Mr. Farrell would later denounce as atrocious.
In our chat, though, Mr. Farrell did address the latitude given to stars.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The one thing that fame asks you to do, I have learned, is to police yourself, he said.
You get away with murder, you get away with mistreating people, you wont be called out on things you really should be called out with, you really do.
He was glad that those days were behind him, he said, not least because sobriety has made him a much better dad.
His first son, James Padraig, was born in 2003 (Jamess mother is the model Kim Bordenave), and initially Mr. Farrell figured hed be his sons friend.
Cause thats what a 6-month-old grub needs, he cracked, a 27-year-old drunk, high friend.
He had his second son, Henry, with his former girlfriend the actress Alicja Bachleda-Curus.
Mr. Farrell shares custody of his sons, and says he cant think of a decision he has made in the last dozen or so years without thinking about how it would impact them.
Now his life centers on the boys, his home in the Los Feliz neighborhood of Los Angeles, yoga (I said I love it, I didnt say Im doing it), and saunas (very purifying).
Video He was a wild guy, and now I think hes channeled all of that into his family, and his work, said the director Dan Gilroy, who said he cast Mr. Farrell in Roman Israel in part because he knew he could hold his own with Denzel Washington.
Mr. Farrell said he planned to take a long break, and he was open to whats next, be it action heroes, even though he loathes guns (Hate em!)
or, in the vein of Mr. Lanthimoss films, more unsexy roles, even if he might be somewhat alone in characterizing them that way.
I still think he was sexy in those movies, Mr. McDonagh wrote in his email.
He couldnt really get rid of that without chopping his head off.
Photo The great Taiwanese director Hou Hsiao-hsiens work is at once popular and avant-garde.
His films are also seldom available on the big screen after their initial releases.
The weeklong run that Quad Cinema is giving his 1987 film, Daughter of the Nile, starting Friday in an excellent digital restoration, is thus something of an event.
Generically a film about disaffected youth in the tradition of Rebel Without a Cause, Daughter of the Nile was produced by a music company as a vehicle for the Taiwanese singer Yang Lin, who does not perform onscreen (although she is heard on the soundtrack).
Her character, Shao Yang, is a stoical, dreamy teenager attending night school; working shifts in a Taipei KFC; and keeping house for her kid sister and older brother, a petty criminal.
Her mother is dead, and her father is a policeman who works in another city.
Shao Yang nurses a crush on one of her brothers sketchy associates, but her fantasy life is nourished by the Japanese manga that gives the movie its title she identifies with the comic books dislocated heroine, an American girl who time travels to ancient Egypt, where she falls impossibly in love with a handsome young pharaoh.
Daughter of the Nile is deceptively tranquil, considering that two men in Shao Yangs life suffer violent deaths and another is severely wounded.
This mayhem is largely unseen and barely explained.
The sense of wistful melancholy and fidelity to the protagonists point of view suggests that it is all her future memory.
Rather than gangster melodrama, she lives in a world of American pop, Japanese gadgets and ironic intimations of antiquity, as when a version of Walk Like an Egyptian pops up on the soundtrack.
Life, to borrow the title of a Milan Kundera novel, is elsewhere.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Vincent Canby, who reviewed Daughter of the Nile in The New York Times when it was shown at the 1988 New York Film Festival, patronizingly characterized Mr. Hou, then well into his career, as an earnest film student, noting his affinities to the Japanese master Yasujiro Ozu.
Daughter of the Nile does resemble an Ozu film in its precise camera placement, use of repeated images (mainly cityscapes) as punctuation and preference for movement within the frame.
The most compelling object in Shao Yangs modest home is a large fish tank.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But Mr. Hou, now 70, is closer to Robert Bresson in his oblique narrative style.
Transitional shots are few; empty interiors are introduced before (or held after) being animated by human activity.
Like Bressons actors, Mr. Hous are less performers than physical presences.
The movie begins with a lengthy close-up of Ms. Yang that is practically a Warhol screen test.
Making films that are understated but not austere, Mr. Hou is an original.
In different ways, Daughter of the Nile seems to have inspired two of the most ambitious Chinese movies of the early 1990s: Wong Kar-wais Days of Being Wild and A Brighter Summer Day, the masterpiece directed by Mr. Hous Taiwanese compatriot Edward Yang.
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
Photo The main takeaway from the prison-therapy documentary The Work (besides the fact that watching grown men scream and grovel is not for the fainthearted), is that crime in this country could be drastically reduced if only more fathers were around to raise their sons.
That may seem a simplistic, even flippant conclusion.
But hearing inmate after inmate describe an absent or emotionally withholding father as the source of his mental anguish renders it also an inescapable one.
Set mainly in a single, stone-walled room in Folsom State Prison in California, this fly-on-the-wall study by Jairus McLeary and Gethin Aldous follows three variously troubled non-inmates over four days of intense group therapy with a passel of maximum-security convicts.
Video Opening an aperture into a process so ego-stripping that it feels unseemly to witness, The Work is enlightening yet also punishing.
Even more disturbing than one of the crimes described and the near-constant background howls is the convicts willingness to bare their souls for the nosing-around camera.
Some offenders have been attending these sessions (run by an admirable nonprofit dedicated to inmates personal growth) for years, and the brothers-in-arms lingo of the 12-step program flows easily.
The mens wrenching revelations and raging breakdowns appear brave and genuine; but how far can we trust behavior that at some point could be factored into parole decisions?
For one quiet outside visitor, warily watching these agonized displays, the pressure to follow suit is palpable.
I didnt come here looking to cry, he says, and I dont want to feel like Im letting them down if I dont.
His guardedness is the movies most relatable moment.
Photo LOS ANGELES Weinstein v. Weinstein has commenced.
Harvey Weinstein, who was fired by the studio he had helped found after The New York Times revealed decades of sexual harassment allegations against him, sued the Weinstein Company on Thursday to demand access to records and emails.
The complaint, filed in Delaware Chancery Court, said Mr. Weinstein needed the materials to defend himself.
More than 50 women have come forward in recent weeks to accuse Mr. Weinstein of sexual harassment or rape.
Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account which is the primary, if not only, account he used during the term of his employment by the company will contain information exonerating him, the complaint said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Weinstein also wants access to his former email account and other company documents, including his personnel file, to pursue a claim of wrongful termination against the Weinstein Company, according to the complaint.
He also wants to pursue legal action against the studio for mismanagement by leaking confidential company information saying that certain news reports about his behavior could have only come from his personnel file.
These last couple weeks have unmoored the industry, Ms. Silverstein said in a somber tone during her opening remarks.
But the revelations about Mr. Weinstein and others, she quickly added, should be seized upon as a real opportunity to push for systemic change.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A global conversation about sexual harassment, toxic masculinity and the institutional sexism that envelops the industry is much needed, she said.
Some women in the audience raised a fist in solidarity.
One shouted, Topple the patriarchy!
A few men shifted uncomfortably in their seats.
During a cocktail hour before the ceremony Women and Hollywood held a similar event in New York last week and will host one in London next month honorees like Lenora Lapidus, director of the Womens Rights Project at the American Civil Liberties Union, networked over coconut chicken skewers and cilantro steak empanadas.
Photo Theres a teeny silver lining, Ms. Lapidus said about the deluge of allegations.
Its reached such a crescendo that theres no going back.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Weinstein, who was fired by the studio he co-founded, has repeatedly denied any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
The ArcLight, an upscale movie theater and event space in the heart of Hollywood, was simultaneously hosting a premiere for Jigsaw, which Lionsgate hopes will restart its Saw franchise.
As women at Ms. Silversteins gathering cited statistics about gender inequality in moviedom women buy 50 percent of movie tickets in the United States, but only 7 percent of the 250 top-grossing films in 2016 were directed by women several dryly noted that it seemed appropriate to have a torture-themed horror movie as a backdrop.
One honoree, Stacy L. Smith, an associate professor at the University of Southern California and author of damning reports about gender discrimination in the movie and television business, called Hollywood a cesspool of humanity.
But Ms. Smith had high praise for Ms. Silverstein, whom she referred to as the entertainment industrys chief agitation officer.
Ms. Silverstein, who grew up on Long Island and works from her Brooklyn apartment, has long focused on womens causes.
After graduating from Brandeis University in 1989 and earning a masters degree from Columbia University in 1993, she worked for organizations like the Ms. Foundation and the White House Project, a now-defunct nonprofit dedicated to increasing female representation in business and government.
Photo In 2007, she started a blog to push for gender diversity in the global film industry.
She called it Women and Hollywood.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I didnt trust my voice at first, but I slowly put myself out there and started to get noticed, Ms. Silverstein said.
Now Im kind of a rabid dog, she added with a chuckle.
On Twitter, where Ms. Silverstein has 33,500 followers, she has been encouraging abused women to come forward.
On Thursday, she tweeted #catchthebastards and #BelieveWomen.
Although it has evolved into a larger organization, Women and Hollywood is still mostly known as a blog.
Ms. Silverstein has a small staff of editors, and the site publishes articles by a range of freelancers.
She does not sell advertising and depends on funding from sponsorships and people like Barbara Dobkin, a philanthropist dedicated to womens issues.
Ms. Silverstein is also artistic director and co-founder of the Athena Film Festival, which programs films, like Suffragette and Hidden Figures, that highlight women in leadership roles.
The eighth annual festival will take place at Barnard College in February.
I do this work because movies are our cave paintings, Ms. Silverstein said.
And there are still so many stories that are missing.
We are desperate for diverse stories from diverse points of view.
Photo Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
THE CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI at Kings Theater, CARNIVAL OF SOULS at the Nitehawk Cinema and PHOTOGRAPHING A GHOST at Light Industry (Oct. 31).
If theres a theme to this years Halloween movie offerings, its silent films in Brooklyn.
At the restored Kings Theater in Flatbush which doesnt often show films, despite its history as a movie palace the German Expressionist landmark The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1920) will screen with live accompaniment from jazz musicians.
At the Nitehawk in Williamsburg, the band Long Distance Poison will provide a score for the 1962 cult classic Carnival of Souls (which is technically a sound movie, but lets not nitpick).
And Light Industry in Greenpoint will screen early shorts that draw on the prevailing interest in spiritualism at the time they were made.
Some of these films use cinema technology to try to disprove the existence of ghosts; others, through movie magic, try to conjure them.
718-856-5464, kingstheatre.com 718-782-8370, nitehawkcinema.com lightindustry.org HANK AND JIM at Film Forum (Oct. 27 through Nov. 16).
A companion series to a new book about the friendship between Henry Fonda and James Stewart, Film Forums retrospective positions the two stars as a study in contrasts especially in cases when the theater will pair the actors movies in double features.
Friday offers back-to-back Hitchcock movies: In Rope, Mr. Stewart serves as the voice of moral reason while foiling a pair of Leopold-Loeb-like killers pre-dinner-party murder; in The Wrong Man, Mr. Fonda plays a jazz musician who through a series of cosmically cruel coincidences is mistaken for a holdup man.
Saturday provides a dual lesson in civic responsibility: Mr. Stewart is a credit to the Senate in Frank Capras Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, and Mr. Fonda shows the virtues of being an open-minded juror in Sidney Lumets 12 Angry Men.
212-727-8110, filmforum.org HOLY BLOOD: MEXICAN HORROR CINEMA at BAM Rose Cinemas (Oct. 27 through Nov. 2).
BAM celebrates Halloween by offering a survey of terrifying films from Mexico, where a strain of Catholicism-inflected, hallucinatory cinema reigned supreme.
The highlights include La Ta Alejandra (Friday), in which the Luis Buuel protg Arturo Ripstein offers his take on witchcraft; Cronos (Friday), Guillermo del Toros feature debut, centered on an antique dealer (Federico Luppi, who died last week) who acquires an appetite for blood; Santa Sangre, the 1989 comeback feature of Alejandro Jodorowsky, the midnight-movie auteur of El Topo; and El Vampiro, which brings the Dracula legend back to Mexico (where it had already been for a Spanish-language version of the 1930s Universal film).
718-636-4100, bam.org
Photo The first time we hear Maya Dardel (Lena Olin, and her inimitable rasp), she is declaring her intention to commit suicide.
Maya, a renowned poet living in isolation, believes her work has begun to decline.
Her only concern now is with finding a worthy heir to manage her estate.
Women need not apply Maya wants to play with power and toy with the young male poets who offer themselves as her potential successors.
Video The passions that drive Maya Dardel, written and directed by Magdalena Zyzak and Zachary Cotler, are more literary than cinematic.
Maya circles her legacy-minded suitors, dropping references to Sylvia Plath and discussing the merits of rhyme schemes and suicide.
But for all the linguistic gymnastics, the film is hamstrung by its directors lack of visual imagination.
Maya challenges her boyish applicants poetically, sexually and finally with offers of intimacy, but the editing all too often settles into a submissive back and forth.
During Mayas tte--ttes, we get a glimpse of her home, but every room in her mountainside hideaway has the same sickly hues of blue and green.
What little light makes it through appears weak and suffocated, and though the claustrophobia abates when she walks through the California brambles, even nature isnt immune to the enervating pallor of Ms. Zyzak and Mr. Cotlers compositions.
The red-blooded vivacity of Ms. Olins performance, however, pierces through the muck.
She chews feeble lines like meat, spitting out the masticated remains.
For all of Mayas talk of finding the youthful Actaeon to her Artemis, the only time Ms. Olin appears matched is in her brief scenes with her neighbor, Leonora, played by the equally strong Rosanna Arquette.
Photo Netflix has yet to make a major impact on the Oscars (witness Idris Elbas snub for the acclaimed 2015 drama Beasts of No Nation), but that may change with Mudbound, based on the powerful trailer that has just been released.
The film has earned raves on the festival circuit and from critics, who are quoted in the teaser.
Directed by Dee Rees (Pariah), the sprawling drama follows two families one white and one black in rural Mississippi during World War II and its aftermath.
Carey Mulligan, who earned an Oscar nomination for An Education (2009), stars as a farm wife caught between her husband (Jason Clarke) and his younger brother (Garrett Hedlund), a returning veteran.
The R&B singer Mary J. Blige, in whats said to be a breakout performance, plays a mother whose son (Jason Mitchell) is also a returning veteran who comes back from Europe only to encounter intransigent racism.
Ms. Rees, who along with Virgil Williams adapted Hillary Jordans novel, could become the first African-American woman nominated for best director at the Oscars.
(Ava DuVernay was passed over for the 2014 drama Selma.)
But Ms. Rees will have to overcome the perception that Mudbound is a made-for-TV movie, since it will be released simultaneously online and in theaters on Nov. 17.
Photo The sin of poor comedic timing is almost an unpardonable one.
Kevin Tent, Alexander Paynes longtime editor, has worked on some of that directors funniest movies, including Sideways and the forthcoming Downsizing.
Yet Mr. Tents directorial debut, Crash Pad, indicates this artist has more to learn about his new craft.
Crash Pad follows a millennial slacker and self-professed romantic, Stensland (Domhnall Gleeson), in the depths of heartbreak after the end of his fling with a married woman, Morgan (Christina Applegate).
After binge-watching episodes of Dawsons Creek and trying to blackmail his former flame, Stensland receives an unusual proposal from Morgans husband, Grady (Thomas Haden Church from Sideways).
The two men become roommates in a bid to make Morgan jealous while they mend their bruised feelings with women and cheap tequila.
The movies premise isnt as bad as the forced, unnatural dialogue.
Even the reliable Ms. Applegate and Mr. Church cant salvage the screenwriter Jeremy Catalinos clumsy lines.
Morgans faithlessness has emboldened me to take a vacation, Grady declares when moving into Stenslands apartment.
Saddled with the wordiest scenes in the movie, Mr. Gleeson comes across like a college freshman fumbling through his first Shakespeare play.
Stensland and Gradys romantic plight might have earned more sympathy if their characters werent so insufferable.
While Mr. Tents direction is serviceable, its safe.
His movie lacks any stylish risks that would make this trios bad romance memorable, leaving Crash Pad to feel like a warm-up act.
Photo What do you seek?
What do you desire?
a young woman named Cathleen is asked as she prepares to take religious vows.
Even though the questions are part of a centuries-old ritual, Novitiate, written and directed by Maggie Betts, takes their content seriously and understands that they are not synonymous.
What Sister Cathleen (Margaret Qualley) and her fellow novices aspire to become does not always align with what they want in their hearts.
Though they feel themselves called to a life of sacrifice, seclusion and austerity, that vocation often expresses itself with a passion that can be unsettling.
It is not just about loving God, but about being in love with him.
Eros and Agape, the worldly and spiritual manifestations of love, are not always easily separated.
Cathleen Harris arrives at the Sisters of Blessed Rose monastery in 1964, when she is 17.
Even though the Vatican II reforms initiated by Pope John XXIII are bringing radical changes to the Roman Catholic Church, they have yet to reach the quiet hillside where the sisters live, almost entirely cut off from the rest of the world.
Cathleen, educated in a Catholic girls school in Tennessee, is leaving a family situation sketched in a few baldly over-dramatized scenes.
Her tomcatting father (Chris Zylka) comes home drunk and angry and then leaves altogether.
Cathleens mother, Nora (Julianne Nicholson), an occasional churchgoer, smokes and swears and sleeps around and is utterly mystified by the intensity of her daughters faith.
Photo Novitiate veers between subtlety and its opposite, which is personified mainly by Melissa Leos abbess.
An autocrat with a sadistic streak, the reverend mother enforces harsh discipline and seems to enjoy humiliating her young charges.
She brooks no dissent and finds herself in conflict both with an independent-minded underling (Dianna Agron) and with the modernizing archbishop (Denis OHare).
Another side of the reverend mothers personality an intense religious devotion entwined with a quasi-feminist, anti-authoritarian streak emerges late in the film, but rather than reveal the characters complexity it undermines the storys coherence.
The movie is on surer, more interesting ground when it explores Cathleens inner life, her daily routines, and the camaraderie and rivalry that emerge among the novices.
Discouraged from forming close friendships that might distract from their primary devotion, the young women, mostly still teenagers, behave in some of the usual ways for girls of their age.
They gossip and share confidences and break rules carelessly or brazenly, all the while grappling, as most adolescents do, with deep and murky questions of identity.
Video Their reasons for joining the order are as various as their temperaments.
One cites Audrey Hepburn in The Nuns Story as a primary inspiration.
Novitiate avoids both the laundered piety of that movie and the sensationalism that hovers around the subject of women and religion.
At least since the 18th century, the depiction of nuns and convents in literature has often tended toward the Gothic or the pornographic, fed by anticlerical and anti-Catholic ideology as well as by fantasies about female sexuality.
There is certainly cruelty in Novitiate, and lust as well.
In her desk drawer, the reverend mother keeps a small whip made of knotted rope, called the discipline, that the sisters may borrow to use on themselves.
Cathleens spiritual hunger her need to be loved and worthy of love, her longing for comfort as well as sacrifice brings its share of anguish, shame and confusion.
Ms. Qualleys performance, and those of some of the supporting cast, notably Morgan Saylor and Rebecca Dayan, convey the difficulties these women face.
Ms. Betts refrains from easy, uplifting answers and facile condemnations of organized religion.
Aided by Kat Westergaards warm, restrained cinematography, she takes the viewer close to an understanding of Cathleens evolving sense of her relationship with God.
Photo Mully isnt much in the way of cinema.
But its courageous subject makes this documentarys shortcomings easier to overlook.
Charles Mully was born in Kenya and abandoned by his family at 6; he later stole and begged on the streets.
Through the generosity of strangers, hard work and some prayer, he not only found a job but became wealthy by running several companies, including a bus service and oil and gas ventures.
To the surprise of his wife and eight children, Mr. Mully one day decided to give up business and devote his resources to Nairobis orphans.
He turned his residence into a shelter, moving in dozens of homeless Kenyans (while sending some of his own children away to boarding schools).
Later he built an orphanage that has housed and fed thousands; a farm there is dedicated to environmentally friendly agriculture.
Scott Haze, the director, is eager to inspire.
Interviews show Mr. Mully to be resolute, and his family kindhearted.
Yet the films tone sometimes turns repetitive.
In one short section, a few orphans tell of their lives before meeting Mr. Mully.
Their brutal recollections are essential to hear, but Mr. Haze hurriedly retreats from those and other harsh topics.
Just as vexing, redundant voice-overs describe what is being shown; while Mr. Mully speaks of events, scripted scenes re-enact them.
Mully nods toward its subjects religious faith but refrains from preachiness.
Mr. Mullys actions speak for themselves, and his robust personality makes him a pleasure to listen to.
If the film doesnt always dig deeply into this mans life, we still see the results of his efforts.
Those are enough to admire.
Photo All I See Is You is halfway through before something resembling a plot kicks in, and even then this limp, shape-shifting psychodrama proves unable to sell it with anything approaching coherence.
Yet the director, Marc Forster (who wrote the script with Sean Conway), fashions such a languid, tipsy aesthetic around the seemingly happy marriage of Gina and James (Blake Lively and Jason Clarke) that its easy to keep watching.
Legally blind since childhood, Gina rarely leaves their home in Bangkok, relying almost entirely on the attentive James.
But when a cornea transplant restores vision to one eye, Gina discovers that her life is not quite as she imagined.
Nor is she.
New erotic interests surface during a trip to Spain, where the hypersexualized marriage of her sister and brother-in-law nudges the film into seamier territory and prompts a change in Ginas appearance.
As James becomes increasingly destabilized by his wifes transformation, the movie seems keen to linger over what can happen to a relationship when a previously dependent partner gains agency.
Video Instead, were hastened toward a nonsensical, almost illegible ending that lays waste to all this careful mood-setting.
Ms. Lively is well cast, gracefully patrolling the boundary of her limited range, with Mr. Clarke less steady in the more amorphous role of someone who seems a bit off from the outset.
And though the milky visual disruptions that signal Ginas initially blurry view of the world are overdone, theres something seductive about her journey that cries out for a filmmaker like Nicolas Roeg.
In his hands, the haze of sex and danger that surrounds these two might have been revealed as more than just a tease.
Photo In Flicit, Vro Tshanda Beya Mputu plays the title character, a singer and single mother in Kinshasa, in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The movie opens in a lively bar, full of gyrating, intoxicated folk, whom Flicit and the band entertain all night with infectious songs filled with blue notes.
(The music is provided by the well-regarded Kasai Allstars.)
The next day, shes got troubles with her refrigerator and negotiations with a local handyman.
Then, some bad news: Her teenage son has been grievously injured in a motorbike accident.
He needs an immediate and immediately paid-for operation.
In an ordinary movie this would set off a race-against-the-clock scenario.
But Flicit, written and directed by the Franco-Senegalese filmmaker Alain Gomis, is an unconventional treatment of an emergency.
At crucial junctures in Flicits desperate scramble to raise funds for her sons medical care, Mr. Gomis, who wrote the screenplay with Olivier Loustau and Delphine Zingg, expands time instead of compressing it.
Flicit still has her job to do, after all.
This movie aspires to depict real life, not life as cinema is often inclined to idealize it; by the same token, it is hardly a work of naturalism.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Gomiss cinematic style is spectacularly multifaceted.
The camerawork and cutting often have the fleetness of a documentary, but theres nothing sloppy about them.
(The cinematography is by Cline Bozon, the editing by Fabrice Rouaud and the director.)
Photo If its startling that the 19th Amendment, which enshrined womens voting rights across the United States, is less than 100 years old, The Divine Order is set in Switzerland, where the equivalent constitutional amendment establishing the right for women to vote at the federal level didnt pass until 1971.
The Divine Order examines that fight for womens suffrage in a microcosm.
Directed by Petra Volpe, the film is set in a conservative Swiss town that has gone largely insulated from the spirit of the swinging 60s.
(To judge from the films grayish look, the locality has even escaped the decades tie-dyed palette.)
The movie centers on Nora (Marie Leuenberger), who, like most of the towns women, has been cowed into keeping her opinions to herself.
The more we push, the more the men do what they want, she tells a pamphleteer encouraging approval of the referendum.
Noras days consist of caring for her children, indulging her proudly retrograde father-in-law and yearning to take a job that would break the monotony.
If Noras name werent enough of a nod to Ibsen, her husband, Hans (Max Simonischek), addresses her as my little bird.
But soon Nora is moved to act.
Noras rebellious teenage niece (Ella Rumpf) is sent to reform school and then, after she runs away, to prison.
Nora reads up on the inequities of Swiss marriage law.
A small act of defiance against the towns leading female anti-suffrage finger-wagger (Therese Affolter) wins her an ally in a feisty widow (Sibylle Brunner), and soon an Italian restaurant owner (Marta Zoffoli) joins them.
Their growing movement culminates in a strike that brings the town to a halt.
Taking a middlebrow, mildly rollicking approach to a serious subject, The Divine Order doesnt exactly break new ground.
It goes for easy laughs, like a scene in which the women attend a workshop led by a Swedish guru who teaches them a better appreciation of their anatomy.
The composer, Annette Focks, supplies an array of insistent Spielbergian music cues, and the film hinges on a pair of big-speech scenes.
Still, The Divine Order effectively illustrates how peer pressure can influence the political process.
Collective silence, whether its from women unwilling to publicly press for their rights or men afraid to voice agreement with their wives for fear of looking weak around co-workers, proves more of an obstacle than any opponent.
That message gives Ms. Volpes lark a timely edge.
Photo In the film Bill Nye: Science Guy, Mr. Nye, the 1990s childrens-television personality with the signature bow tie, warns of an anti-science movement afoot in this country.
And this delightful, revealing documentary, directed by David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, offers evidence supporting that assessment.
Mr. Nye, who left his Emmy-winning series after around 100 episodes, has embraced a new mission: educating an older generation as he champions space exploration and challenges creationists and climate-change deniers.
In TV clips, Sarah Palin impugns Mr. Nyes credentials, and an Obama-era Donald J. Trump declares, Our president is worried about global warming what a ridiculous situation.
Joe Bastardi, the former chief long-range forecaster at AccuWeather and a frequent Fox News guest, insists that extreme weather is merely meteorological variation, not the result of human-caused global warming.
(Mr. Nye is polite but resolute as he argues with Mr. Bastardi during a visit to his home.)
As we stand here, the Juno spacecraft just went into orbit around Jupiter, Mr. Nye says.
Its an extraordinary accomplishment of engineering and rocket science.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Here is anti-science, he adds, gesturing in the direction of the Kentucky tourist attractions the Creation Museum and Ark Encounter, whose exhibits present such sights as prehistoric humans cohabiting, Flintstone-like, with dinosaurs, and a sauropod (a dinosaur species) dwelling on Noahs ark.
Mr. Nye debates the museums chief executive, Ken Ham, on a stage, though his efforts only galvanize Mr. Hams supporters.
The documentary also follows Mr. Nyes work as chief executive of the Planetary Society, as he collaborates with the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson and spearheads the LightSail project (a small spacecraft powered by photons from the sun), a tribute to Mr. Nyes mentor Carl Sagan.
And it accompanies Mr. Nye to Greenland, where he witnesses melting ice caps and ice-core studies revealing climate temperatures of centuries past and our fossil-fuel-poisoned present.
On Monday, the New York attorney general opened an inquiry into the studio, examining whether allegations against Mr. Weinstein reflect broad gender discrimination and other civil rights violations.
On Tuesday, an aspiring actress, Dominique Huett, sued the Weinstein Company in Los Angeles Superior Court, accusing it of negligence.
She became the first woman to take legal action against the studio since The New York Times and The New Yorker revealed decades of sexual harassment and rape allegations against Mr. Weinstein.
In her complaint, Ms. Huett said Mr. Weinstein had lured her to a Beverly Hills hotel room in 2010 with a promise to discuss acting roles and instead forced her to engage in sex acts.
A spokesman for the Weinstein Company did not respond to requests for comment on the suit on Wednesday.
The suit contends that the Weinstein Company had a duty to control Weinstein in his interactions with women during meetings taking place within the course and scope of his employment.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Weinstein, who was fired by the studio on Oct. 8, has repeatedly denied any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Part of Colonys calculus appears to involve the likelihood that other women will sue the studio.
More than 50 women have come forward with allegations against Mr. Weinstein.
In remarks to Bloomberg Television on Tuesday in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, where Mr. Barrack was attending a business conference, he said that sorting through which potential liabilities are attributable to the company on an ongoing basis, and which arent, is a Rubiks Cube.
Adding to the complexity, no one is interested in salvaging a company which would benefit Harvey, Mr. Barrack said.
In other words: Would it be possible to structure a sale so that Mr. Weinstein did not benefit financially?
Mr. Weinstein owns roughly 20 percent of the studio.
His brother, Bob, owns an identical share.
The rest is owned by about 25 investors, who hold portions of varying sizes.
Several major entertainment companies have looked at buying pieces of the Weinstein Company and come away with mixed to negative reactions, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.
Lionsgate had interest in only one of the studios coming films, Paddington 2, which is set for release in January.
But even that family sequel has limited potential; the Weinstein Company mainly holds domestic rights.
Endeavor, which owns the William Morris Endeavor talent agency and the IMG sports and fashion business, took a look at the Weinstein Company to see if there was a way to protect clients who have projects in the works there.
But it concluded that clients should instead use legal tactics to pry projects loose.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Endeavor-related projects include a film adaptation of the musical In the Heights, created by Lin-Manuel Miranda and Quiara Alegra Hudes; a documentary about President Trump by Michael Moore; and a planned adaptation of The Boys in the Boat, Daniel James Browns book about the American rowing team that won a gold medal at the 1936 Olympics in Berlin.
Even before the sexual harassment crisis, the Weinsteins boutique studio was struggling.
Film releases had become sporadic, and its library of old films had become less valuable because of the collapse of the DVD market and a 2010 deal to sell a substantial portion to prevent bankruptcy.
The studio has made inroads in television, selling series to the likes of Amazon and Viacom and lining up potential shows with Showtime and Apple.
But Amazon pulled the plug on its deal after the harassment scandal.
Apple also walked away.
Showtime said it would move forward with its project only if the Weinstein Company dropped out.
Viacoms Paramount Network, formerly known as Spike, is moving forward with three series.
In terms of existing shows, the Weinstein Companys primary asset is Project Runway, which airs on Lifetime.
A scripted series, Scream, will return for a six-episode third season on MTV in the spring.
Photo Joan Didions meticulously calibrated prose has the effect of placing her at a particular remove from the reader.
The persona she creates on the page is always frank but never ingratiating.
So its disarming to see a relatively cozy Joan Didion in the documentary Joan Didion: The Center Will Not Hold, but it should not be surprising.
The movie is directed by Griffin Dunne, one of Ms. Didions nephews, who also appears as an onscreen interviewer.
The Dunne-Didions are a storied family whose members are, and have been, significant cultural forces.
They are also a clan rived by tragedy.
Two of Ms. Didions most celebrated recent works concern the deaths of her husband, the writer John Gregory Dunne, and her daughter, Quintana Roo.
The exchanges between Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion are at once fond and candid.
When Mr. Dunne suggests that his uncle, Ms. Didions husband, was a protector, Ms. Didion nods animatedly before adding, And a hothead.
The relationship between Mr. Dunne and Ms. Didion limits the movie in certain ways, but opens it up in others.
Mr. Dunnes longtime family connections and his own prestige as a filmmaker no doubt helped him snag interviews that other documentarians would be hard-pressed to schedule.
Ms. Didions friend Calvin Trillin is among the interviewees, and while Id never dare suggest that great writer is not a big get, I was impressed in a different way when Harrison Ford showed up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While the movie covers the whole of Ms. Didions life (and even the period before it, offering a fun fact that at one point the pioneer Didions traveled with the Donner party), those expecting a thorough examination of Ms. Didions work may be disappointed.
Which is not to say that Mr. Dunne, a very canny filmmaker, doesnt accomplish a lot via implication.
The movie is subtly bracketed by readings of Ms. Didions appreciation of John Wayne, in an early essay, and her excoriation of Vice President Dick Cheney, in a later one.
Unlike a great many more facile thinkers, Ms. Didion clearly does not consider them equivalent figures.
But the citation of both works illuminates the changes in Ms. Didions thinking over the years.
Her early writing reveals the instincts of a conservative.
As she witnessed the tectonic shifts in American life wrought by, among other things, the counterculture, she admittedly lost faith in the social contract, but did not turn left for solutions; rather, she staked a claim as a kind of ideological outsider.
(Two words that are never uttered in this movie are feminism and feminist.)
Mr. Dunnes movie gets you thinking about all this with extremely well-chosen archival footage and evocative music choices.
Though fans admire Ms. Didions ability to write coolly about matters of the heart, Mr. Dunne said that he could not separate his emotions from the filmmaking.
It was always going to be a love letter, he said.
Shes my Aunt Joan.
In the new film, Joan Didion: The Center Will Not Hold, which reaches theaters and Netflix on Oct. 27, Ms. Didions notably distant cool is immediately apparent when she discusses her classic 1967 essay, Slouching Towards Bethlehem, which chronicled the dark side of the hippie movement in San Francisco.
While reporting on free love and flower children, Ms. Didion encountered a harrowing scene inside a flophouse, where a 5-year-old girl was tripping on LSD.
When Mr. Dunne pressed Ms. Didion to describe this incident for the documentary, she said, Let me tell you, it was gold.
Thats the long and the short of it, is you live for moments like that if you are doing a piece.
Good or bad.
Ms. Didions candid comment, recorded during a long conversation in 2013 that makes up the bulk of the documentary, reflects the levelheaded yet ambitious tone that made Slouching Towards Bethlehem and her first essay collection of the same name a national sensation in 1968.
Though she had already published one novel, Run River, in 1963, it was her nonfiction that turned Ms. Didion into a writer-celebrity, a glamorous cultural space she still occupies five decades later.
In her long career, Ms. Didion has published more than a dozen books, written or co-written six screenplays, and received the National Book Award and the National Humanities Medal.
Still, Mr. Dunne said, she waited a long time to consent to a documentary.
She kept saying no, he said.
It wasnt until she asked me to film the trailer for her book Blue Nights in 2011 that I started to think about being the one to do it.
I saw how much she loved the process.
I thought, this is all going so great, why dont I just ask her?
To his delight, she said yes.
Writing via email, Ms. Didion said: Im still not sure it is the right time.
Six years ago, when I said yes, it did not seem possible that the time to actually do it would ever arrive.
Im naturally skeptical that these things can work.
But here we are.
Ms. Dunne said with a laugh, Of course, neither of you knew what you were getting into, and Mr. Dunne agreed.
The gravity and the burden of responsibility only kicked in later, he said, after it became clear how much interest there was in a Didion documentary.
A crowdfunding campaign for the film reached its goal in one day and news that the project was in the works made international headlines.
He realized, I better not screw this up.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Dunne, who has directed five features, including Practical Magic (1998), said that while Ms. Didion is no chatterbox, he felt that there was a cathartic effect to asking her about her past.
Ms. Didion agreed, saying by email: I felt at home with Griffin and Annabelle from the beginning.
Feeling at home was most important.
It was nice at the very least to talk to someone who knew John and Q. I couldnt have described either of them to another interviewer.
Photo John and Q were Ms. Didions husband, the writer John Gregory Dunne, who died in 2003 after a sudden heart attack, and her daughter, Quintana Roo Dunne Michael, who passed away as a result of an infection in 2005 at only 39.
Mr. Dunne and his cousin have also experienced their share of grief Mr. Dunnes sister, Dominique, was killed in Los Angeles in 1982, and both of his parents, including his father, the longtime Vanity Fair writer Dominick Dunne, are gone.
It was torture.
Mr. Dunne said of approaching the last quarter of the film, in which he raised the subject of loss with Ms. Didion, who had written two books exploring the tragedies, the best sellers The Year of Magical Thinking (2005) and Blue Nights.
I think it was easier for her than it was for me, Mr. Dunne said, adding, For me, the good news was Im related, so I got permission to make this movie.
The bad news was I am related, so I know all the people she lost.
Quintana is my cousin, John is my uncle, and I have to make her go through it all over again.
If I was a more dispassionate, regular documentarian, that would be questions on the clipboard.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Still, Ms. Didion, who saw several cuts of the film along the way, said, I did find it fortifying to know that I was telling these secrets to people who regarded them as such.
The feeling was mutual.
I was really conscious of how just through attrition, there was just Joan and I in the room, Mr. Dunne said.
Its probably one of the reasons she let me make the movie.
I know all those people who are not here, I loved all those people, we share that love.
Without being too mystical, I was always aware of my parents, and John, and Quintana, in the editing room, he added, his chin shaking, fighting back tears.
And I think they would have liked it.
Thats absolutely not true.
I completely deny it.
Its false, Mr. Lombardo said in another interview in his lawyers office in Rome, a city where he said he had done great work bringing movies and a lot of money to Miramax.
He said he was shocked by the allegations against Mr. Weinstein, though he reserved judgment on the validity of the accusations.
This is something that nobody knows, except the people in the place where it happened, he said.
A man wouldnt tell this story.
So how do I know?
You see what I mean?
I dont think anybody knows except the people in the room.
At the height of Mr. Weinsteins power, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, unease about Mr. Lombardos role in the company was so great that Mr. Weinstein attempted to allay concerns, according to Elizabeth Dreyer, a senior executive who was in charge of international acquisitions at the time.
But Ms. Dreyer said Mr. Weinsteins denial to his senior international staff at a meeting she attended did not entirely dispel suspicions inside the company.
Years earlier, Ms. Dreyer had worked in Miramaxs New York office and was responsible for reserving hotel rooms for the Cannes Film Festival.
She recalled requesting a room at the Htel du Cap-Eden-Roc for Mr. Lombardo, and being told that he was barred because the owner said he brings too many girls.
That was kind of an ah-ha moment for me, she said, recalling thinking, I get what Fabrizio is about now.
I get the relationship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Lombardo said that neither he nor Mr. Weinstein was ever barred from the hotel.
(The hotel manager at the time would not comment.)
Mr. Lombardo attributed the criticisms to people within the company who were envious of his relationship with Mr. Weinstein.
They have to find a reason for their failure he said, adding that it was not his fault what took place behind closed hotel room doors.
You cant hold responsible the person who from the lobby shows the room.
But some of the women are eager to take Mr. Weinstein, and his alleged facilitators, to task.
One of Mr. Weinsteins accusers, Asia Argento, an Italian actress, received what she considered threatening messages on her telephone from Mr. Lombardo, whom she said she hadnt heard from in years.
Im scared to death, Ms. Argento told a reporter by phone the morning after receiving the image on Oct. 3 of an anonymous couple passed out on a bed with the words, Have You Ever Been This Drunk.
Why is he sending me this?
she said.
Mr. Lombardo acknowledged he had sent what he called the funny videos, but argued he sent them to her on two separate days as part of a mass forwarding by mistake.
He expressed regret that Ms. Argento felt threatened and he conceded that the timing was terrible.
Ms. Argento subsequently went public in The New Yorker with her account of sexual harassment by Mr. Weinstein, and she has since named Mr. Lombardo as the person who brought her to Mr. Weinsteins room in 1997 under the false pretense of attending a party.
Another woman, Zo Brock, has accused Mr. Lombardo of accompanying her into Mr. Weinsteins Cannes hotel room in 1998 under the pretense that friends would be joining them to continue a party.
Ms. Brock, a former model, said in a phone interview that Mr. Lombardo had excused himself to leave her alone with Mr. Weinstein, who, behind closed doors, stripped naked and chased her around the room.
Photo It was a total set up.
He knew, Ms. Brock said, referring to Mr. Lombardo.
Mr. Lombardo denied both accounts.
Mr. Weinsteins spokeswoman, Sallie Hofmeister, said Mr. Weinstein denied all the allegations against Mr. Lombardo.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As the executive in charge of Rome and parts of Europe, Mr. Lombardo made contributions that generated hundreds of millions of dollars in revenues for the company, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Before Mr. Lombardo befriended actors and dated movie stars, he was the son of engineers in the northern Italian town of Novara.
He learned English in London and French in Paris, where he first put his early passion for real estate into practice and entered the orbit of Jean-Luc Brunel, a powerful modeling agent in the 1980s.
He was one of the boys hanging around Jean-Luc, said Rene Toft Simonsen, a top model at the time, who considered Mr. Lombardo part of the system of young men who hang around models and connect them with powerful people.
Mr. Brunel, who surfaced in news reports several years ago for his connection to Jeffrey Epstein, a Florida billionaire convicted of soliciting prostitution from a minor, declined to comment.
Mr. Lombardo ended up as part of the moveable feast.
Former models and Miramax executives recalled him as a handsome wingman of Italian soccer stars like his real-estate business partner Nicola Berti.
Mr. Lombardo said he first met Mr. Weinstein and his family in St. Barts.
Ms. Hofmeister, speaking for Mr. Weinstein, said the two met during the making of the film Pulp Fiction, when Mr. Lombardo was dating the actress Uma Thurman.
Mr. Weinstein and his first wife dined at Mr. Lombardos West Village townhouse, and Mr. Lombardo said Mr. Weinsteins office subsequently called him to help interpret during a meeting with the Italian director Giuseppe Tornatore.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But he said they mostly saw each other in Cannes and St. Barts, where, during a Weinstein family Christmas vacation, the mogul fell deathly ill with septicemia.
Mr. Lombardo arranged for a private plane to medevac Mr. Weinstein out and flew with him to New York, where Mr. Weinsteins brother, Bob, waited with an ambulance.
If he had waited another day in St. Barts he wouldnt have survived, Mr. Lombardo said.
His big break came, he said, when he brought Mr. Tornatores project, Malna, to Mr. Weinstein, who in 1999, despite the objections of some Miramax executives, asked Mr. Lombardo to lead Miramax Italy.
Ms. Dreyer, then overseeing Miramaxs Italy operations, said she received a call from her superiors urging her to use Mr. Lombardo in everything she did.
I thought this was a way to legitimize his involvement in the company, she said, adding that his responsibilities amounted to setting up meetings and translating.
In 2003, Mr. Weinstein served as the best man to Mr. Lombardo when he married Chiara Geronzi, the daughter of Cesare Geronzi, then chairman of the Capitalia bank.
But soon after, Miramax closed its Italian branch but the company was upset that Mr. Lombardo kept receiving payments, which he said protective Italian labor laws required.
An article in The New York Times in 2004 aired the companys grievance, and Mr. Lombardo felt unfairly maligned and insufficiently defended by Mr. Weinstein.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We had a little falling out, he said.
Mr. Lombardo subsequently kept a lower profile, playing golf, raising a family and occasionally showing up for movie premieres with his wife.
Several years ago, Mr. Lombardo bumped into Mr. Weinstein on the ski slopes in Gstaad, Switzerland, prompting a reconciliation.
Earlier this year, Mr. Lombardo accompanied Mr. Weinstein to a private screening in Rome of the film Perfect Strangers, leading the Weinstein Company to buy the rights.
I made it happen, Mr. Lombardo said, adding that instead of a payment, he sought only an executive producer credit to demonstrate to his daughters that their father was once somebody in the film business.
The movie tells the tale of old friends who think they know each other, but they dont.
This film, Mr. Weinstein told Variety in February, is about what can happen when our addiction to phones and social media reveals our deepest secrets rather than letting people hide behind the public profiles they so skillfully create for themselves.
Photo Trapped between skies like beaten tin and earth scrubbed raw by wind and rain, the characters in Gods Own Country are well used to harshness.
Like Johnny (Josh OConnor), who labors on his struggling family farm in Yorkshire under the critical eyes of his sick father (Ian Hart) and stolid grandmother (Gemma Jones).
For relief, he vents his frustrations in binge-drinking and furtive, feral sex with random young men.
Video These taciturn encounters, unfolding as unsentimentally as the internal exam he gives a pregnant heifer, suggest someone disgusted by his own sorry self.
But this bracing, sometimes brutal movie the feature debut of the writer and director Francis Lee doesnt present Johnnys sexuality as the cause of his self-loathing.
Rather, its his imprisonment by a legacy hes not sure he wants that ties his tongue and clots his emotions.
Both are about to be loosened.
The arrival of Gheorghe (Alec Secareanu), a gentle, darkly handsome Romanian migrant worker, softens Johnnys heart and the movies tone.
Their passion isnt pretty, but awkward and pasty and explicit: two frantic strangers grappling in the muck of the moors.
Yet Gheorghe is skilled at handling more than newborn lambs; and as the men grow closer, the glowering light grows warmer and the whole picture seems to briefly exhale.
Filmed with a naturalism that recalls Andrea Arnolds 2012 dive into Wuthering Heights, Gods Own Country weaves a rough magic from Joshua James Richardss biting cinematography and the storys slow, unsteady arc from bitter to hopeful.
Bodily fluids bestial and human stain the screen, punctuating a story thats as much about rediscovering place as finding love.
So when Gheorghe looks out at the brooding countryside and murmurs Its beautiful here, we sense that Johnny really doesnt need persuading.
Photo Daniel Day-Lewis has always been unpredictable, and he may have delivered his biggest surprise yet when he announced in June that he would retire from acting after reteaming with his There Will Be Blood director, Paul Thomas Anderson, on one final film, Phantom Thread.
The trailer for the movie has just been released, and it looks to be a portrait of an artist as intense and focused as the man who plays him.
Mr. Day-Lewis stars as Reynolds Woodcock, a 1950s London couturier who has always been married to his work.
Into his life comes Alma (Vicky Krieps), a young woman who becomes his muse and, seemingly, his obsession.
Lesley Manville, known for her roles in Mike Leigh films like Mr. Turner and Topsy-Turvy, plays Woodcocks sister.
Whatever you do, do it carefully, Alma advises Woodcock in the teasers final line.
That sentiment certainly applies to Mr. Day-Lewis, who has thoughtfully chosen parts like the painter with cerebral palsy in My Left Foot and the legendary president in Lincoln.
Both those roles won Oscars for the actor, and so did his turn as an avaricious oilman in There Will Be Blood.
If Mr. Day-Lewis wins again for Phantom Thread, he will tie Katharine Hepburn as the actor with the most Oscars.
The film will be released in theaters on Christmas Day.
Photo In 2008, Liam Neeson kicked his career into a higher gear when the surprise-hit action movie Taken scored one of the biggest openings ever for a Super Bowl weekend.
So its no wonder his latest thriller, The Commuter (due in January) debuted its new trailer during Foxs N.F.L.
coverage on Sunday.
The film is the fourth collaboration between Mr. Neeson and the director Jaume Collet-Serra.
Their most successful vehicle to date, Non-Stop, took place on board an airplane, and The Commuter shares a similar transportation theme.
The star plays an insurance salesman who must determine which of his fellow railroad passengers is in mortal danger or risk the safety of his own loved ones.
The plot contains echoes of Strangers on a Train as well as Murder on the Orient Express (director Kenneth Branaghs all-star remake of the Agatha Christie whodunit opens next month).
The cast also includes Vera Farmiga and Patrick Wilson, both veterans of the wildly successful horror franchise The Conjuring.
Mr. Neeson, 65, was recently quoted as saying he was retiring from action films, then walked back the story.
Given his particular set of skills and the commercial failure of his most recent drama, Mark Felt: The Man Who Brought Down the White House The Commuter might not be his last trip as an action hero.
Mr. Henicks team is also working with Smokehouse Pictures, a production company run by George Clooney and Grant Heslov, to develop a movie based on a BuzzFeed News investigation into assassinations that may be linked to the Kremlin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other projects include a series for the NBCUniversal cable network Oxygen that is based on an article about the gruesome death of Jessica Chambers, a teenager who was burned alive in Mississippi, and an adaptation of the online cooking show Mom vs.
Chef for USA, another NBC cable network.
Mr. Henick grew up in Great Neck, N.Y., and spent his childhood riding forklifts around his fathers floor-covering business at a warehouse in Brooklyns Williamsburg neighborhood that has since been converted into an apartment building.
His interest in media and technology began early.
When he was 14, he and his best friend created an MP3 website that drew a cease-and-desist letter from the Recording Industry Association of America because it hosted the Titanic soundtrack.
Several years later, Mr. Henick and his friend started one of the first ringtone sites in the United States.
They bought the domain name NokiaUSA.net in the hope that Nokia customers would stumble on their site.
Nokia was not pleased it served the teenagers a cease-and-desist letter in the halls of their high school, after which they changed the companys name to MobileSmarts.
The business, Mr. Henick said, made a lot of money, although he wouldnt specify how much.
Photo Hes an entrepreneur who knows how to build new things and new companies, Jonah Peretti, the founder and chief executive of BuzzFeed, said in an interview.
Im always amazed at the way hes able to switch between these different models in his head and see the same things through a totally different lens.
Mr. Henicks experience as a teenage ringtone magnate gave him the idea to go west for college.
I was sort of already on that trajectory of wanting to head at least somewhere close to Silicon Valley, to figure out what was going on there, he said.
He enrolled at Stanford, where he wrote for the campus humor magazine and played bass in a band called North of Cuba with his Theta Delta Chi fraternity brothers.
After graduating with a degree in science, technology and society, he stayed at Stanford another year, earning a masters in digital media studies, which he now calls completely useless.
The professor would want to talk to us about LiveJournal and Myspace to a certain extent, and the students in the class would raise their hand and say, Well, what do you think about Facebook?
Mr. Henick said.
And they didnt even know about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story From there, Mr. Henick studied producing at the University of Southern Californias film school in Los Angeles.
During summer break, he attended a talk at the Skirball Cultural Center by the comedy producer Judd Apatow.
Photo I just went up to him and told him as much of my story as I could, Mr. Henick said.
We were both from Long Island, both went to U.S.C., and I was looking for a gig.
Mr. Apatow brought him on as an intern before hiring him as an assistant, so Mr. Henick spent his second year at U.S.C.
balancing classes with reading scripts and checking out sets.
After graduation, he worked on movies like Forgetting Sarah Marshall and Step Brothers before going out on his own as a writer, script doctor and start-up consultant.
Along the way, he and Ms. Killoch, who met at U.S.C., started a clothing company.
They also got married.
I clearly get bored very easily, because I do too many things, Mr. Henick said.
I was literally sitting in my apartment writing movies, doing all right thats sort of the dream for some people and I was like, What else can I be doing?
Before Mr. Henick started at BuzzFeed, he was worried that he might end up restless yet again.
But so far, he said, I havent been bored once.
Photo When he joined three years ago, Tasty, the sites popular food division, did not exist, and the company had yet to secure funding from NBCUniversal, which has since plowed in $400 million.
During Mr. Henicks tenure, many digital media companies that once raked in millions of investment dollars found themselves struggling.
A so-called pivot to video a term sometimes used to cover layoffs of text-oriented staff members swept the industry.
Increasingly wary of the outsize influence of Facebook and Google and hoping to siphon away some of the billions of advertising dollars still devoted to television new media companies rediscovered old media, setting off a race into TV and film.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Cue Mr. Henick.
His mission is to help diversify BuzzFeeds revenue stream: Executives expect that partnerships with production studios may bring in a third of the companys revenue in the coming years.
Since it was founded in 2006, BuzzFeed, which is now valued at about $1.7 billion, has anticipated trends in the media business.
Its move into the entertainment industry could be viewed as prescient but the company is also said to be pursuing an initial public offering of stock, and associating itself with a glamorous business may have the side benefit of attracting investors and bolstering valuations.
I dont think we do anything specifically for that reason, but its always a byproduct, Mr. Henick said.
If our business is stronger and its growing exponentially because we keep finding brand-new businesses to get into, its going to allow us to hopefully go public or invest in a lot more stuff elsewhere in the company.
During a weekly check-in meeting at the old BuzzFeed lot on Sunset Boulevard, Mr. Henick swiveled around on his desk chair, a hand under his chin.
He wore jeans, a light blue button-down and retro Air Jordan sneakers.
Staff members talked about projects or possible deals with Netflix, MTV and Facebook.
The talk turned to a recent article about the right-wing website Breitbart and one of its former star employees, the rabble-rouser Milo Yiannopoulos.
Did anyone see a film opportunity there?
Someone suggested the Oscar-winning screenwriter Aaron Sorkin.
Mr. Henicks eyes sparkled.
I would retire out on top, he said, if we could get Sorkin to write it.
Photo LOS ANGELES A sassy church lady, a group of elite firefighters, an alcoholic detective, some do-gooder Texans and a renegade scientific genius walked into multiplexes on Friday.
Only one grabbed the attention of ticket buyers.
Tyler Perrys Boo 2!
A Madea Halloween, with Mr. Perry reprising his gun-toting, moralizing granny, took in about $21.7 million at North American theaters over the weekend.
That total gave Mr. Perry his sixth No.
1 opening, bolstering his status as one of the most reliable crowd pullers in moviedom.
Even so, initial ticket sales for Boo 2 (Lionsgate) fell 24 percent behind those for Boo!
A Madea Halloween last year.
Boo 2 cost roughly $24 million to make.
Ticket sales were terrible for the other newcomers Geostorm, Only the Brave, The Snowman and Same Kind of Different as Me adding to worries that moviegoing is falling out of fashion, as Americans curl up at home with their Netflix accounts.
On the other hand, all of those films but one, Only the Brave, a dramatization of a wildfire that killed 19 responders, received abysmal reviews.
Geostorm (Warner Bros.) was second for the weekend, taking in an estimated $13.3 million, a failing total for a film that cost roughly $130 million to make, not including tens of millions of dollars in marketing costs, and was released in 3,246 theaters.
Geostorm, starring Gerard Butler as a scientist racing to save the planet from environmental destruction, likely suffered from a sense of been-there, done-that, coming across as another The Day After Tomorrow.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Geostorm was cofinanced by Skydance Media, a company founded by the Oracle heir David Ellison.
Next among the newcomers was Only the Brave, which collected about $6 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data.
Black Label Media, a company co-founded by the FedEx heiress Molly Smith, spent about $38 million to make this firefighter drama, which was distributed by Sony Pictures Entertainment.
(It has been a bad month for the FedEx family at the movies: Alcon, backed by Ms. Smiths father, Fred Smith, had a major box office misfire with Blade Runner 2049.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Sony noted that Only the Brave received an A grade in CinemaScore exit polls.
We expect great word of mouth among our core audience, the studio said in a statement on Sunday.
Receiving a D grade from CinemaScore was The Snowman (Universal Pictures), which bombed with $3.4 million in ticket sales.
The Snowman, which cost $35 million to make, stars Michael Fassbender as a troubled detective in pursuit of a wintry serial killer.
Universal said The Snowman has taken in an additional $19.2 million overseas.
Photo Federico Luppi, a dignified Argentine actor well known for his complex performances in the dark fantasy films of Guillermo del Toro, died on Friday in Buenos Aires.
He was 83.
The cause was complications of a subdural hematoma, said his wife, the actress Susana Hornos.
Mr. Luppis career, which began in the mid-1960s, included dozens of film and television roles, often in Argentine productions.
Slim and stately with a shock of white hair, he endowed his characters with a sense of gravity.
One of those characters was Jesus Gris, the protagonist of the Mexican horror film Cronos (1993), Mr. del Toros directorial debut.
In that film, which also starred Ron Perlman, Gris, an antiques dealer, finds a clockwork device that turns him into a vampire.
Mr. Luppi played the monstrous Gris with touches of weakness at one point in the film he sinks to a bathroom floor to lap up a spot of blood.
Reviewing Cronos in The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that Mr. del Toro had a considerable asset in Mr. Luppi, who remains soign and reasonably calm no matter what happens to him, in a role that would also have been perfect for Vincent Price.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Luppi appeared in two more of Mr. del Toros films, both set in Francos Spain.
He was a leftist sympathizer who ran a haunted orphanage in The Devils Backbone (2001), and the monarch of a fairy kingdom in Pans Labyrinth (2006), which won three Academy Awards in 2007.
Photo If I had to spend a global meteorological catastrophe with anyone, I dont think Gerard Butler would be my first choice.
But of course I dont have a choice.
Mr. Butlers character, Jake Lawson, has a job to do, and so do I. Jakes is to fix the space-based weather-control system he designed and built, racing against a digital clock that counts down the minutes until geostorm.
Mine involves counting the minutes until Geostorm is over and then offering a comprehensive damage assessment.
To quote something Jake says to a grandstanding senator (Richard Schiff) who dares to question his expertise: youre welcome.
Video Directed by Dean Devlin from a script he wrote with Paul Guyot and discreetly installed in theaters without advance screenings, Geostorm uses digital technology to lay waste to a bunch of cities and hacky screenwriting to assault the dignity of several fine actors.
Andy Garcia and Ed Harris are the president and secretary of state, while Abbie Cornish is a Secret Service agent secretly keeping company with a deputy secretary named Max Lawson (Jim Sturgess) who happens to be Jakes younger brother.
The siblings have their differences, but they share an unplaceable American accent, an aversion to regular shaving and a desire not to see the world destroyed by ice, fire, hail or heavy rain.
The movie does what it can to replicate those elemental forces.
I happened to see it in the 4DX format a first for me which combines the thrill of a Mad Tea Party ride with the sensory challenges of a cab ride across the Manhattan Bridge on a rainy night.
Your seat rocks and rumbles during chase scenes, lists gently from side to side during zero-gravity interludes and abuses your lumbar spine when space junk starts flying.
You sometimes catch a whiff of burning skyscraper, a spray of monsoon mist, a whoosh of gale-force wind and the gentle caress of Mr. Butlers stubble on your cheek.
Not that last thing, actually, but Im sure theyre working on it.
And I look forward to future 4DX adventures, or at least to installing one of those chairs in my office.
I wouldnt say the experience improved Geostorm, but it certainly didnt make it any worse.
As for Mr. Butler, he is no more or less credible as a renegade scientific genius than in any other role hes attempted; consistency is his chief and perhaps his only virtue as an actor.
He does his job.
I do mine.
The world is safe.
The weather is fine.
Photo About a year ago, Tyler Perrys Boo!
A Madea Halloween arrived in theaters.
It was hardly distinguished, but it had its moments, largely because of the comic interactions between the outrageous, finely aged characters Madea and Joe (both played by Mr. Perry) and their fellow dyspeptic senior citizens, Hattie (Patrice Lovely) and Aunt Bam (Cassi Davis).
Video Tyler Perrys Boo 2!
A Madea Halloween, which, as usual with Mr. Perrys pictures, wasnt screened in advance for critics, frequently feels more like a remake than a sequel.
The movie revisits Brian Simmons (Mr. Perry), a single dad, and his rebellious teenage daughter, Tiffany (Diamond White).
The respect-your-parents and dont-even-think-about-having-sex lessons of the previous film have long been forgotten by the characters; if anything, Tiffany, now turning 18, is snottier, and Brian more passive.
(The movie introduces an ex-wife, played by Taja V. Simpson, who walks all over him and is too permissive with Tiffany.)
Once again Tiffany is determined to attend a frat party.
And, yes, its the same inhabited-by-30-year-olds frat from the first film.
The twist this time is the fellas arent allowed to have a party in the house, so instead theyre having it at Derrick Lake, which was (cue scary music) the scene of a still-apparently-shrouded-in-mystery (with this shoddy script its hard to really tell) mass murder back in the 1970s.
Rumor has it some kind of massacre-seeking entity haunts the premises.
The prospect of Mr. Perrys rambunctious Madea possibly taking on a Jason Voorhees-type killer has an amusement value that is not even vaguely realized here.
This movie finds Mr. Perry, never the most deft at the technical aspect of filmmaking, drastically off whatever his best game is.
Every camera setup is a study in inertia; every other cut is a beat or two behind where a punch line needs to land.
To call this movie unwatchable would be inaccurate, though the scenes featuring Mike Tornabene and Yousef Erakat, portraying frat brothers who act as if they are dying to reassemble a group of Dead End Kids for Sidney Kingsleys play, are pretty painful.
On the other hand, the lighting is so weak, Boo 2!
is quite often close to unseeable.
I knew Geographic sent Hugo out to get what he could of the chimps but also to document me, and I wasnt happy particularly, but I knew we needed to get that I needed Geographic funding.
So if Hugo wanted to film me washing my hair, so be it.
I couldnt think why on earth anybody wanted to see me washing my hair.
It turns out to be one of the most favorite scenes in the film.
The footage is beautifully composed.
Were there moments when Hugo said, can you just move a little to the right?
Photo Oh yes, it was nightmarish.
I had to eat the same thing five times, redo everything.
Luckily, one of the first jobs I had was in a studio in London, in the very old days, doing 35-millimeter stuff for advertisements, and I learned a lot of tricks.
And so when these filmmakers say, That was perfect, can we do it again?
I know why, whereas most scientists get so pissed off.
What was the experience like of watching the film, especially the start of your romance with Hugo and then the dissolution of your marriage?
I actually hadnt imagined that there could be anything new out of all that footage.
So many documentaries have been made about me.
Miss Goodall and the Wild Chimpanzees [the first one] was so inaccurate.
Orson Welles narrated it, and so I got my lawyer, and Orson Welles had to rerecord it.
When I saw this one, it just took me right back to who I was, in a different way.
I loved watching the growing closeness between me and Hugo at Gombe, and the happiness of our wedding and birth of our son.
And it was healing to suddenly realize, with hindsight, how the end of our marriage was, in a way, inevitable and for the information we both could share with the world, very important.
You always dreamed of going to Africa to study animals, but initially you had no formal training or scientific background.
Did you ever have any impostor syndrome, worrying that you werent up to the task?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Not at all.
When the chimps were running away, I was terrified the money would run out.
I knew if I could have long enough, it would be O.K.
Im an obstinate kind of person, so challenges are to be met.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It was almost unthinkable for a young woman to do this job, but you never considered that an obstacle.
No, I wasnt brought up that way.
Everybody else laughed at me, but Mom didnt.
Women werent scientists.
When I was growing up, you could be a nurse, a missionarys wife, a secretary, and then, oh, how exciting, you could be an air hostess.
A lot of people said to me, dont you want to be an air hostess?
Photo Looking back on it, being a woman in Africa was a plus, because back then, it was just newly independent or moving towards independence, and white males were threatening and not liked by the Africans.
But as a woman, they all wanted to help me.
And this business about [being] the Geographic cover girl it didnt hurt that I wasnt ugly.
There wasnt any competition with males in that field because nobody was doing it.
Sometimes being a woman, theres, you know [the suggestion from a superior], lets have a little fling.
And [if you say no, you worry] will that compromise your success in achieving your goal?
Maybe I was lucky, that it didnt work out that way.
Bosley Crowther, who gave The Sea Wolf a mixed review in The New York Times, found Robinsons performance too heavily drenched with theatrical villainy.
But, however overwrought, the movie addressed something beyond its source.
Warner Bros. had fired across Germanys bow two years earlier with its espionage thriller Confessions of a Nazi Spy.
Robinson, who had starred in the movie and was an outspoken anti-fascist, called his character in The Sea Wolf a Nazi in everything but name.
The political element of The Sea Wolf had a personal resonance.
Robinson was, like Curtiz, a foreign-born Jew; Rossen, a Communist, and Garfield, a progressive fellow traveler, were Jewish slum kids from New York City.
Ida Lupino, also foreign-born and of Jewish descent, would characterize The Sea Wolf as a movie that could pass as current history.
She had also prompted Rossen to write additional scenes illuminating Ruth and George as dclass victims of a capitalist society.
A hit in 1941, The Sea Wolf was rereleased six years later, cut by 14 minutes, mostly it would seem, bits of scenes in which van Weyden argued philosophy with Larsen, and Ruth and George discussed their marginality.
In any case the revised version appeared in a different political climate.
In the years that followed Robinson, Garfield and Rossen would all be hounded by the House Un-American Activities Committee and two other cast members, Knox and Howard da Silva were blacklisted.
A maritime political allegory from another perspective is Titanic, made in Nazi Germany in the midst of World War II.
(Its newly out, with its postwar cuts restored, on Blu-ray from Kino Classics.)
An ambitious and expensive production, Titanic was intended as an attack on British arrogance and greed.
The ship goes down as a result of a stock market scheme run amok.
In the film, Bruce Ismay (E. F. Frbringer), the British magnate whose company owned the Titanic, ignores the advice of his fictional German first officer (Hans Nielsen).
Striving to maximize his profits, Ismay, in effect, sinks his ship, filled with British and American plutocrats who are served by a heroic crew.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
After 45 minutes of talky intrigue and betrayal, a tiny iceberg is visible in the blackness.
As the engine room floods, children are abandoned, marriages break up, false information is disseminated, and rioting erupts.
Some images were incorporated in the 1958 British feature about the 1912 disaster, A Night to Remember.
Titanic ends with a hearing in which Ismay is acquitted, the injustice underscored by a statement describing the movie as a condemnation of Englands eternal quest for profit.
Titanic, which was filmed in German-occupied Gdynia in Poland, as systematic gassing was beginning in Auschwitz and the Soviets were launching a counteroffensive against the Nazis at Stalingrad, not only evokes a catastrophe but was one.
Heard complaining about the government, the initial director, Herbert Selpin, was arrested midway through the production, and was found hanging in his prison cell.
Then the scenes of mass panic seemed to hit too close to home for a German population coming under Allied siege.
The movie was extensively cut and was banned in Germany in 1944, although it does seem to have been released in occupied France and was shown in West Germany after the war.
The liner Cap Arcona, on which much of Titanic was shot, subsequently became an actual floating concentration camp and was docked in the Baltic as a target.
Several days before the war ended, it was bombed by the Royal Air Force.
Many more people died in this tragedy than those who lost their lives when the real Titanic went down.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Newly Released BENEATH THE 12-MILE REEF Its Romeo and Juliet among Floridas sponge-diving clans.
This 1953 feature, now available on Blu-ray, was written by the tough-guy novelist A.I.
Bezzerides; its more notable for its early use of CinemaScope, underwater photography and Bernard Herrmann score than for its stars Terry Moore and Robert Wagner.
(Twilight Time) DELUGE A rediscovered disaster film from 1933, Deluge has New York City decimated by a tsunami and a couple of attractive young people trying to rebuild civilization in accordance with a new moral code.
Extras include the proto-feminist Back Page, released in 1934, in which one of the female stars of Deluge takes over a small-town newspaper.
Available on Blu-ray and DVD.
(Kino Lorber) LAND OF THE DEAD Where chaos reigned in Night of the Living Dead, George A. Romero here shows a permanent state of disaster in which a zombie underclass controls the countryside, the super-rich are holed up in gated high-rises and a demoralized working class huddles in slum shanties.
The new Blu-ray collectors edition has both the theatrical and unrated versions, among other extras.
(Scream) THE LOST WORLD A precursor to King Kong, made in 1925 and now on Blu-ray, The Lost World, based on Arthur Conan Doyles favorite novel, has been restored using newly discovered footage.
Willis OBriens animated dinosaurs, living on a plateau deep within the Amazon jungle, are more engaging than the movies human characters, let alone the several racial stereotypes.
(Flicker Alley) THE LOST CITY OF Z The independent director James Grays most ambitious film to date tackles the true story of the early-20th-century Amazon explorer Percy Fawcett.
Mr. Gray is a sensualist, Manohla Dargis wrote in her review in April, and in The Lost City of Z he turns the Amazon into a ravishment for the senses.
Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Video.
(Broad Green)
Photo Immigration is a part of Hollywoods story just as much as it is Americas.
In the early years of cinema, many of the first regular moviegoers were working-class immigrants.
Immigrants founded major studios like Paramount and Warner Bros. in the early decades of the 20th century.
And over the course of two world wars, talented directors and movie stars mostly from Europe poured into this country.
Yet, the story of coming to America seems to have fallen off multiplex marquees at a time when immigration has become one of the most contested issues in politics.
Sorely missing are movies about undocumented immigrants, an absence that is glaring even in an industry that has struggled to keep up with the times.
Reporters and documentarians are sharing the tales of children and young adults brought to this country at a young age, but in the five years since President Barack Obama issued the executive order that established Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or the DACA program, no major studio has produced or released a film about an undocumented character.
As some of the countrys major storytellers, why dont the studios tell these remarkable stories?
Television has proved more receptive.
In the Netflix series One Day at a Time, a supporting character named Carmen (Ariela Barer) tries to live with the shows family after her parents are deported.
In the CW series Jane the Virgin, the familys matriarch, Abuela Alba (Ivonne Coll), goes through the process of applying for her green card and the shows star, Gina Rodriguez, is developing two shows centered on undocumented immigrants.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Immigrant stories once appealed to studio executives.
After all, they released narratives like Francis Ford Coppolas The Godfather Part II, Elia Kazans America America and Barry Levinsons Avalon.
These stories didnt focus on the legality of their arrival, just that their characters made the difficult journey and lived in America.
Several notable directors, like Mr. Kazan, Fritz Lang and Alfred Hitchcock, came to the United States from different countries, while others, like Mr. Coppola, Mr. Levinson, Martin Scorsese and Steven Spielberg, were the children or grandchildren of immigrants.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Like immigration, the movie business has changed since then.
Producers have moved away from director-driven passion projects and toward properties with more international potential.
Meanwhile, period films about the immigrant experience like Brooklyn (2015), The Immigrant (2014) and Gangs of New York (2002) freeze the experience in the first half of the 20th century, as if people arent still trying to come to this country to start new lives.
Photo And as with many of the other dramatically rich stories that Hollywood once produced, immigrant narratives have become the stuff of independently produced movies, like Chris Weitzs A Better Life.
After directing big-budget productions like The Golden Compass and The Twilight Saga: New Moon, Mr. Weitz scaled down to tell a story about an undocumented gardener (Demin Bichir) whose under-the-radar existence with his son is upended when his truck and equipment are stolen.
Mr. Bichirs Oscar-nominated performance is stoic yet not without emotion, breaking through the tough exterior he puts on for his son.
Like the passion projects of the previous Hollywood generation, Mr. Weitz made the film in part as a tribute to a relative, his Mexican grandmother, Lupita Tovar, the star of the 1931 Spanish-language version of Dracula.
Photo The anxiety of undocumented immigrants to make enough money without getting caught also clouds every frame of Sean Baker and Shih-Ching Tsous Take Out.
This day-in-the-life movie follows a Chinese deliveryman on his frantic struggle to scrounge up the funds through loans and measly tips to pay off the smugglers who brought him to the United States.
The films low-budget, early-digital-film approach looks as frenetic as its main character, who desperately rides his bike to his next destination.
Both A Better Life (2011) and Take Out (2008) were released before DACA went into effect.
A generation ago, in 1984, Gregory Nava broke out with the seminal El Norte, which drew attention to the dangers of coming to America without papers.
In that drama, a brother and a sister leave their war-torn home in Guatemala and make a harrowing attempt to cross the border.
It was one of the first movies to show this experience from the immigrants perspective.
El Norte is grim and realistic about the difficult odds facing undocumented immigrants even after they arrive in America.
Photo But where are the movies about the latest generation of undocumented teenagers and young adults more than 800,000 of them now who have become teachers, analysts, students, bankers and artists?
There should be an imperative within the creative community to include as many of these voices as possible, since art and entertainment made by and about those yearning to breathe free is just as much a part of our heritage as it is theirs.
His target this time is Christian, the curator of a modern-art museum in Stockholm whose finely crafted life is undone when an ill-conceived plan to get back his stolen wallet and iPhone unwittingly results in a public relations scandal.
The Danish actor Claes Bang a hit at Cannes, where The Square won the Palme dOr thus igniting a Bang for Bond (as in 007) campaign stars as Christian alongside Dominic West, as an artist whose gallery talk is interrupted by an audience member with Tourettes syndrome; Terry Notary, as an ape-man whose performance piece for a patrons dinner veers horrifyingly close to reality; and Elisabeth Moss, as an American journalist who beds Christian, leading to the most hilariously paranoid tussle over a used condom that some of us will ever witness.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK Photo Theater: Wooster Group Performs The B-Side Oct. 25-Nov. 19; thewoostergroup.org.
There is a hushed, meditative reverence to the Wooster Groups show Early Shaker Spirituals, a mesmeric combination of traditional music and dance, based on a recording.
Directed by Kate Valk and performed by women in prim Shaker attire, it is billed as a record album interpretation.
When the actor Eric Berryman saw that production two years ago, he was inspired to create something similar.
He brought the idea to the Wooster Group, along with an album made in 1964 by the folklorist Bruce Jackson, containing the singing and spoken words of black men locked up on segregated prison farms.
They were the voices Mr. Berryman wanted to pay homage to.
Directed by Ms. Valk, designed by Elizabeth LeCompte and starring Mr. Berryman, the resulting show is The B-Side: Negro Folklore From Texas State Prisons, which starts Wednesday, Oct. 25, at the Performing Garage in SoHo.
Last fall, a work in progress showing there was spare, alive and nothing short of transcendent.
LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES Photo Dance: Benjamin Millepied at Koch Theater Through Oct. 29; abt.org.
American Ballet Theater is entering the realm of pop-up dance.
As part of the companys fall run at the David H. Koch Theater, the choreographer Benjamin Millepied will present not one, but two premieres.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Along with I Feel the Earth Move, set to music by Philip Glass and debuting Wednesday, Oct. 25, in the usual place the theaters proscenium stage he will also present Counterpoint for Philip Johnson.
Performed during intermission on select programs, the dance was created in homage to Philip Johnson, the architect of the building, which opened in 1964.
Set to Steve Reichs Nagoya Marimba, the new work, with costumes by Rag & Bone, showcases 24 dancers from American Ballet Theaters Studio Company and the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School.
During his dancing days, Mr. Millepied, a former member of New York City Ballet, which counts the theater as its base, spent plenty of time on the promenade.
How will he bring it to dancing life?
GIA KOURLAS Classical: The Philharmonic Celebrates Bernstein Oct. 25-28, 31; nyphil.org.
Although Leonard Bernsteins 100th birthday is not until next August, classical music institutions have already begun to fete the centennial of the enduring American cultural icon.
Even Lin-Manuel Miranda got into the game, quoting a line from West Side Story for the hook of his star-studded new song to benefit hurricane victims in Puerto Rico, Almost Like Praying.
The New York Philharmonic celebrates its iconic former music director with the festival Bernsteins Philharmonic, which will include performances of the composers complete orchestral works.
Even if his reputation was made by West Side Story, Bernsteins Jeremiah Symphony and Serenade (After Platos Symposium), featured on the first weekend of the festival, are formidable symphonic statements.
It is fitting that the program features violin soloist Joshua Bell, an inheritor to Bernsteins populist charm, and is conducted by Alan Gilbert, whose now-concluded tenure as the New York Philharmonics music director was a spiritual successor to that of Bernstein.
WILLIAM ROBIN TV: Fearless on Amazon Prime Oct. 27; amazon.com.
I was in East Anglia today, and I went past the place where where my unraveling started, Emma Banville, a human rights lawyer, played by Helen McCrory, tells her hospitalized father in Fearless, a British thriller debuting Friday, Oct. 27, on Amazon Prime.
(And, yes, thats Donald Trump alongside Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair in the opening montage.)
The dogged Banville who throws back whiskey shots and chain-smokes cigarillos while pulling all-nighters in the name of justice has taken on the case of Kevin Russell (Sam Swainsbury), convicted of murdering a schoolgirl 14 years earlier despite his insistence of innocence.
But when a questionable confession at the hands of Detective Inspector Olivia Greenwood (Wunmi Mosaku) now assigned to counterterrorism command results in Russells freedom, pending a retrial, Banville is snared in a Pandoras box involving Sir Alastair McKinnon (Michael Gambon), a disquieted politician turned Cambridge master who has summoned sinister American operatives to the scene.
Patrick Harbinson, the shows creator, keeps Fearless and its tangly intrigue all in the family: He was a former writer and executive producer of Homeland, in which Ms. McCrorys husband, Damian Lewis, originally starred.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Still reading?
O.K.
In M. Butterfly, our not-so-bright Gallimard a French embassy official stationed in Beijing in the 1960s falls head over heels for Song, who he thinks is a woman but is really a fetching young dude in Suzie Wong drag.
That Gallimard (and his real-life prototype, Bernard Boursicot, whose case became an international scandal in the mid-1980s) failed to register the imposture has been the subject of much bewildered speculation and many jokes.
(Check out the priceless Forbidden Broadway parody of the show.)
Photo In the latest incarnation of the tale, Song is not merely a man pretending to be a woman.
Hes a man pretending to be a woman pretending to be man who is pretending to be a woman.
Got that?
Never mind.
Well get back to it later.
This extra turn of the screw of pretense is also directly from the case history of Monsieur Boursicot (the subject of a fascinating book by The New York Times columnist Joyce Wadler).
But for audiences who must digest an already complex story (did I mention that Song is a spy for the Chinese government?)
within less than three hours of stage time, its a lot to assimilate.
There is another, even more distracting problem.
Once weve seen Mr. Ha who has a distinctly masculine cast of a jaw in boys clothes early on (thats when he says hes a man who works in drag as an actor in a Beijing opera house), its impossible to unsee him as that boy.
Which makes Gallimard, our deluded protagonist, appear even more mentally challenged than usual.
You could argue that such obtuseness is appropriate for a play that considers the blindness not only of love, but also of cultural and sexual imperialism.
Yes, Gallimard, who has never had much luck with women before, is responding to the novelty of a beautiful actress improbably finding him attractive.
But more important to the plays intriguing and ever timely central thesis is the fact that Song is Asian, perceived as a fragile lotus blossom waiting to be plucked by virile white hands, like the doomed heroine of Puccinis Madama Butterfly, Gallimards favorite opera.
Such, it seems, is the Wests vision of the East.
Mr. Hwang more than implicitly compares Gallimards dim vision regarding his love object to the unrealistic beliefs that Western countries hold about the East.
That includes the presumption that Vietnam would fall in a swoon before the manly forces of the United States.
Song, whose mission as a spy is to elicit information from Gallimard about Frances involvement in Vietnam, speaks scornfully of a Western self-image involving big guns, big industry, big well, you know your own fantasies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But for M. Butterfly to have emotional impact, it must make its audiences uneasily complicit in that fantasy.
In this version, you always maintain the distance sometimes amused, sometimes appalled thats generated by your awareness of theatrical machinery churning away.
Photo Dont blame Mr. Owen, who works skillfully and, well, manfully at becoming a wimp in a part memorably originated by John Lithgow (and played by Jeremy Irons in the 1993 film).
Though he has established himself on screen as a thinking persons hunk (Children of Men, The Knick), Mr. Owen is surprisingly convincing here as someone who could never get a date in high school.
The shows broken master of ceremonies, whom we meet in a French prison cell many years after the events recounted here, Gallimard does his best to frame the story of his relationship with Song as a love story worthy of tragic opera.
As Mr. Owens Gallimard struggles to make facts succumb to romantic fiction, his discomfort in his own skin glistens like flop sweat.
If only this production trusted more in its reliably unreliable narrator, and let us see a bit more through his bedazzled eyes.
Instead, the show has a grinding Brechtian self-consciousness throughout, which calls harsh attention to its less than subtle ironies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Has arch Song seems to be all too demonstratively in on the cosmic joke being played on poor old Gallimard.
Building up the role of Songs shrill Communist party liaison (Celeste Den) was a mistake.
Though Enid Graham is fine in the thankless part of Gallimards wife, the character of his macho best friend (Murray Bartlett) remains an annoying device.
Most disappointing for Ms. Taymors fans is the productions lack of the ravishing visuals she brought to The Lion King and her more recent A Midsummer Nights Dream.
The tall, painted Chinese screens that frame each scene are alarmingly clunky and unsteady.
(Paul Steinberg did the sets.)
The two centerpiece dance sequences, choreographed by Ma Cong, feel scrappy, like numbers from a pared-down touring production of Miss Saigon.
And Elliot Goldenthals original music and soundscapes are usually more intrusive than evocative.
Such clumsiness sadly undermines a play that remains urgently relevant.
Anyone doubting that Gallimards pipe dream of masculinity is still with us need only consult recent reports of the behavior of Hollywood moguls and American presidents or daily accounts of the United States military in quagmires on foreign soil.
But even if the romance at the heart of M. Butterfly is toxic, we still need to be swept up by the tide of this crazy infatuation.
In this incarnation, were not being seduced, but preached at.
And Gallimards grand self-sacrifice seems more pathetic and unnecessary than it ever did before.
This is all very effective, which is saying a lot.
The nostrums of 12-step recovery, even with Emma resisting them bitterly, are not inherently dramatic.
Montages of Im an addict sharing sessions, peppered with role play and tearful confession by a strong ensemble of actors, are nothing we havent seen before.
Photo Still, the staging gives the illusion that something dynamic and new is happening.
In an odd way, Mr. Herrins hilarious work on the recent production of Noises Off at the Roundabout Theater was excellent preparation.
People, Places & Things is a kind of inverted farce, with all the doors slamming in the other direction.
But I kept waiting for something bigger than fine stagecraft and even Ms. Goughs extreme, ingenious performance to kick in.
In his touching play Every Brilliant Thing and in the brutal adaptation of George Orwells 1984 he wrote with Robert Icke, Mr. Macmillan demonstrated an eagerness to keep the audience engaged in static stories at all costs, and to send it off with a big finish.
These are usually admirable instincts, and they do, for the most part, keep us from wandering as Emma goes through her recovery laps.
Even during the plays longueurs it feels a bit padded to achieve its length you sense that larger questions are being assembled to deliver a gut-punch reversal at the end.
When it comes, you must re-evaluate what you thought you knew.
But Ben Brantley was right to ask, in his New York Times review of the plays 2015 premiere at Londons National Theater, whether that effect is enough to make theatergoers feel that their own long, often tedious path to enlightenment has been worth it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
His answer was no.
Mine is yes, but.
However valuable and accurate People, Places & Things is as a portrait of the addicts nightmare, in and out of rehab, the play really wants to weigh in on a more fundamental issue about addiction and responsibility.
And on this note it seems to waffle as much as I do in responding to it.
Perhaps this is the result of a contradiction built into recovery itself, at least as structured along the 12-step model: We play a large part in our own addictions yet we are powerless over them.
Mr. Macmillan develops the argument between these two ideas in a series of confrontations with three women: the recovery centers doctor; its therapist; and, eventually, Emmas mother.
(It is thematically useful that all are played by Barbara Marten, who is brisk as the doctor, warm as the therapist and jaw dropping as the mother.)
The first two women, as advocates for a process that is fundamentally structured around acceptance of a higher power, locate the source of addiction in a breach of humility: Addiction, the doctor suggests, is caused by trauma we flatter ourselves to think we can ignore or control.
Emma furiously rejects this interpretation, in ways that many an atheist and Foucaultian will recognize.
If its vital to my recovery that I come to believe in a power greater than me, Emma fulminates, then we might all just be wasting our time.
It is, she points out, the 21st century.
And though the doctor explains that her clinic employs a religiously neutral modification of the 12-step template one in which addicts express powerlessness over the three nouns that make up the plays title she nevertheless (Emma notices witheringly) wears a crucifix.
Further, the play is all too successful in replicating the sententiousness and sanctimony of recovery jargon, at least as overheard by an outsider.
So which is it?
Is recovery (as Emma first sees it) a cult of ego deflation or (as she later sees it) a spiritual and medical response to trauma?
It may be reasonable to suggest that, as she recovers, her position gradually changes, her punctured actorly narcissism fizzling with a long hiss.
She leaves rehab a convert to its philosophy of personal responsibility.
But then, as the play closes I wont spoil how we are given devastating evidence that Emmas addiction is not her fault at all, but rather the mark of the worlds cruelty to sensitive souls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Are we not then all addicts?
Or is the play simply addicted to its own effects?
If I was troubled by Mr. Macmillans philosophical opportunism the story sometimes works like a toggle switch, flipped this way and that to maintain suspense perhaps its because I am leery of a mechanistic approach to issue drama.
And to recovery.
Yet it is not the playwrights job to provide answers to such questions.
It is enough that he leaves you scraping the insides of your soul, looking for your own.
This hotel was built on top of our broken bones!
an animatronic pirate skeleton complained amid thunder and lightning.
Photo I tiptoed through upside-down rooms and kitchens with rumbling floors, past sinks running with blood and candles sliding along mantels, and declined housekeeping from an undead maid.
A bonus: After making it through the inn, we were invited to sit and watch, on jumbo screens, a video of our harrowing stay.
Horsemans Hollow (Ages 10 and up, Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.) Photo At 7 p.m. that same Saturday, the line for Horsemans Hollow was full, and devil horns ($3.95 at the gift shop) glowed red on many a head.
Ghosts in tricorn hats chased shrieking SUNY students.
A local market sold doughnuts and cider.
Inspired by The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, Historic Hudson Valley staged Horsemans Hollow on the grounds of Philipsburg Manor, converting the historical site into a colonial town gone mad.
Think fewer clowns, more yellow fever.
I followed a lantern-lit trail along the Pocantico River toward the old manor.
Signs along the path warned of the Headless Horseman, but mostly it was just nice to be out of the city.
Decapitations were, fittingly, all the rage in the town.
Lets see how you laugh without a windpipe, one lobbed-off head barked through planks of wood.
Welcome to my garden, a crone beckoned, and I proceeded cautiously, worried shed push a farm share.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a dark barn, ghosts in flowing, glowing sheers oscillated like tower fans.
A zombie nun stopped eating a dead soldiers entrails to scream at me, then the dead soldier popped up to scream as well.
Oh, God, I whimpered as I stepped into a foreboding temple.
Youre right, a satanic figure atop the throne said.
I am God.
Winding outdoor paths provided a moment to catch my breath before the next hazy tent or demons Airbnb.
I paused in the cemetery to let pass a woman who had been loudly telling her friend an unrelated childhood story since wed left the fortune tellers camp what is this, the Moth?
Pipe down!
Outside the schoolhouse, Ichabod Crane jumped out.
Hes real!
he cried, pointing.
Looming up ahead, in front of the manor, the Horseman sat ominously on a real horse.
No flash!
a handler snapped at the people in the crowd who had their phones out like Justin Bieber was on that horse and we were all in Montclair, N.J. Back at the entrance, the ghouls entertained the crowd with a Mad-Libbed shanty, incorporating someones oh-so-Hudson-River-Valley suggestion: 401(k).
Blood Manor (Ages 14 and up, Hudson Square, Manhattan) Photo At 11 p.m., the line for Blood Manor stretched down Varick Street.
Now in its 13th season, this Manhattan haunt caters to an older, clubgoing set no doughnuts, no cider.
Speakers blasted Cardi B while a stilted man carrying a scythe stalked the line and posed with people in front of a step-and-repeat backdrop.
Inside, it was loud and hot.
For 20 feverish minutes, throughout 18 different rooms, I fended off attacks from an ax-wielding contortionist, an undead stripper dancing across from, well, a dead stripper impaled on her pole, and a doctor who leapt across his operating table toward me, growling, Its just you and me, big guy.
Photo Glasses were provided for a maze lined with 3-D wallpaper, but for a pitch-dark maze, nothing just my own two hands reaching out, feeling around every turn.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Back on the street, friends recounted their escapes in excited clumps, while two young women hid from the stilted man under the M20 bus stop shelter.
This Is Real (Ages 18 and up, Red Hook, Brooklyn) Photo Ever wondered what youd do if you were kidnapped?
I sure havent.
From Psycho Clan, the team behind Nightmare New York, This Is Real simulates a group abduction in an isolated Red Hook warehouse.
Only eight people are admitted during each time slot, and everyone must sign a waiver beforehand.
Because most of the other times were sold out, I was given a 3 p.m. Sunday slot, a good option in case you and your aunt cant get into Hello, Dolly!
I stood outside the warehouse with my fellow abductees: a group of male friends and a guy whod driven two hours from Connecticut.
Threatening greeters circled us, murmuring, Introduce yourselves.
You will need each other.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Two of my biggest fears were already being engaged: a broken fourth wall and a bunch of straight guys depending on me for their survival.
Inside we were blindfolded, bound at the hands and led one by one into narrow cells.
I wriggled free of my bindings and raised my blindfold just in time to watch the stocking-capped killer spray a tied-up woman with a gas that made her woozy.
He ran down our row of cells, spraying us as well.
Youre pretty, he said to my neighbor, and, to me, Im attracted to you.
Photo Thank you, I nearly purred back.
He hauled the woman out, and we had to unlock our cells and scour the filthy, sparse room for ways to escape without getting caught.
Every few minutes we heard whistling, which meant the killer was approaching, and scrambled to hide.
I wasnt fast enough the first time.
Dead!
he shouted, pointing at me, as earsplitting horror movie strings swelled.
(Luckily, you get three lives.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The boys tore through our room while I tried to look busy.
Here, one of them said to me, Ill hoist you up to that electrical box, and see if you can find anything.
I longed for the killers whistle.
I survived the 70-minute ordeal, hiding in a refrigerator two rooms back, abandoned by the others.
The greeters, no longer threatening, took our photo for the Instagram page and recommended Botanica across the street for a drink.
Its not much cooler out there, a greeter said, pushing the warehouse doors open.
Oh, right out there.
I took a deep breath, steeled myself and stepped back in.
If You Go THE GRAVESEND INN, A HAUNTED HOTEL Through Oct. 31.
Voorhees Theater, 186 Jay Street, Brooklyn; nycitytechtheatreworks.org/gravesendinn.
HORSEMANS HOLLOW Through Oct. 31.
Philipsburg Manor, Sleepy Hollow, N.Y.; 914-366-6900, hudsonvalley.org/events/horsemans-hollow.
BLOOD MANOR Through Nov. 4.
163 Varick Street, Manhattan; 212-290-2825, bloodmanor.com.
THIS IS REAL Through December.
153 Coffey Street, Brooklyn; thisisreal.nyc.
But it is only in the last year that her works have made their way to the city that inspired them.
With help from the Detroit Historical Society and the Knight Foundation, the theaters roving production of Detroit 67 has traveled to museums, high schools and community centers in the metropolitan region.
Photo Detroit 67 is one of three plays inspired by the city; Paradise Blue, the second, about an arts-rich African-American neighborhood demolished at midcentury for freeway construction, will be produced at the Signature Theater Company in Manhattan in the spring.
Skeleton Crew, the final work in the trilogy, centers on the closing of an automobile plant and its impact on four workers during the 2008 recession.
It runs through Oct. 29 at the Detroit Public Theaters 150-seat space inside the Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Music Center; the Detroit Free Press described it as maybe the best play youll see this year.
The theater was founded in 2015 by Courtney Burkett, a native of the city who had worked in theater here and in New York; Sarah Clare Corporandy, who also serves as managing director at Chautauqua Theater Company in upstate New York, but returned here for this challenge; and Sarah Winkler, a native New Yorker with more than two decades as an actress and producer Off Broadway, who moved here when her husband took a job in Michigan.
All three share the title producing artistic director.
We felt like there was not an anchor for theater serving the city, Ms. Burkett explained, noting the presence of major cultural institutions like the Detroit Symphony Orchestra and Detroit Institute of Arts.
A theater like this could not have existed 10 years ago, she added.
Now that the citys stabilizing and even thriving in so many ways, our artists are also thriving and getting the attention they always deserved.
Among the challenges is ensuring that, as white women, they remain connected to a city that is more than 80 percent black.
(Matrix Theater Company and the African-American focused Plowshares Theater Company both have long histories here.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an email, Ms. Corporandy said: Producing theater in a city that is predominantly African-American means we need to make sure that our stories speak to everyone, to the public we want to serve.
Photo We are also very aware of the privilege we come to the table with, she added, and we want to be sure that we are leveraging that privilege to give back to this city that we all love, not take from it.
The Detroit Public Theater annual budget is a relatively modest $1 million; its costs include renting space inside the symphonys hall.
The leaders hope to raise enough money to have a permanent home eventually; in the meantime, they believe that showing work like Ms. Morisseaus is vital to the theaters becoming better known to Detroiters, suburbanites, and visitors intrigued by the citys much-touted comeback.
This playwright was a natural choice for the inaugural 2015-16 season, according to Ms. Burkett.
(It presented Detroit 67 in a coproduction with Baltimore Center Stage.)
And the leaders intend to bring other Michigan artists into the fold, including the playwright Noah Haidle, whose Birthday Candles will have its world premiere as the final show this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Debbie Erb, the chairwoman of the theaters board, said leaders want to keep the shows really accessible.
Ticket prices top out at $45, with group and student discounts and pay as you go options during previews.
Another goal is to keep actors who are from the Detroit area in Detroit, Ms. Erb said.
Because why should they have to go to Chicago or New York to earn a decent living?
Ms. Morisseau admits that until recently she was better known outside her hometown than inside.
Even starting from Detroit, she said, local theaters didnt know who I was until really, really huge things happened for me.
Clearly that is changing.
Ella Joyce, a Detroit native now living in Los Angeles, plays Faye, the lead character in Skeleton Crew.
She was excited to return for the role.
I dont think Dominique is just Detroits greatest playwright, she said on opening night.
I think she is one of Americas greatest playwrights.
Photo Ms. Joyce said friends from grade school turned up at performances of the play and came up to speak with her afterward, even bringing childhood photos to remind her who they were.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Writing about the people of Detroit, particularly African-Americans, is crucial to Ms. Morisseaus work.
And while she now lives in Los Angeles, serving on the writing staff of Showtimes Shameless, she believes her work brings Detroiters alive, especially when it is performed by local actors.
Something kind of magic and organic comes out of the mouth of a native Detroiter when theyre saying my words, she said.
Its like we speak the same language.
Earlier this month Ms. Morisseau came to see Skeleton Crew with her husband and an entourage of dozens, including her mother, who still lives in Detroit.
When you are sitting around with half your family that inspired your work, its profound and exciting, but it is also overwhelming because these are the people that know it best and that live it, she said.
Its for this reason that Ms. Morisseau is not only glad to see her work produced inside the theater, but brought to the public as well.
Asking communities from all over to not just go to midtown or downtown Detroit to see shows, but come out to the neighborhood where what happened in these neighborhoods happened to someone you know, she said.
That to me has power, in the best way, to affirm, to vindicate, to humanize and to heal.
Devising a new annual entertainment tradition in an era when people have so many options, however, has bedeviled producers across fields like theater, circus, art, and concert festivals.
The Christmas Spectacular is spectacularly successful, but a strong part of its pull is nostalgia and tradition, said Drew Hodges, the founder of SpotCo Advertising who worked on Rockettes projects in the past, and is now an independent consultant for producers of live entertainment.
Its difficult to build a new tradition it takes years and even harder to create a family-friendly entertainment that fills 6,000 seats a night, referring to the seating capacity at Radio City Music Hall.
Time would seem to have run out for this coming spring.
None of the behind-the-scenes work needed to mount a major new production is taking place, and this month the Tony Awards said it would return to Radio City on June 10, all but precluding a late-spring show as well.
Rhonda Malkin, a dance coach who has trained dozens of Rockettes, noted that the company has tried and failed to create various shows for the group over the last 15 years.
She admired the most recent iteration of the late-spring show, overseen by the choreographer Mia Michaels, and said that Rockettes were excited to perform it again.
Photo Radio City tends to build a big show and then at the last minute either do away with it or change it or not put it up, Ms. Malkin said.
For years now, Madison Square Garden Company has faltered in its artistic choices for a new Rockettes franchise a creative development process that started becoming bumpy in 2014 because of Mr. Weinstein, the film mogul who was fired as co-chairman of the Weinstein Company this month amid allegations of sexual harassment and assault.
That year, Mr. Weinstein played a key role in the decision to scrap a multimillion-dollar new springtime Rockettes show, Heart and Lights.
He did not have an official role on the production, but attended a run-through with his friend Mr. Dolan, and was among those voicing doubts about the shows book and songs.
The show was canceled, and its creative team was soon gone, including Linda Haberman, the respected artistic director of the Rockettes since 2006.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The following year Mr. Weinstein was brought onboard to overhaul the show and serve as its producer.
He remade it and brought on a raft of stars, but it was not a success: Reviewing it in The New York Times, Charles Isherwood praised the Rockettes but little else, describing the show as a numbingly overblown 90-minute infomercial.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Another shake-up was ordered for 2016.
Mr. Weinstein was no longer its producer, Ms. Michaels became its new director and choreographer, and the playwright Douglas Carter Beane wrote a new script.
But that version was not a success either.
A Madison Square Garden Company earnings report issued for the fourth quarter of 2016 said that it took in less revenue due to fewer scheduled performances, a result of a shift in the timing of the productions run from the spring to the summer, and, to a lesser extent, lower per-show revenue.
Last winter there were indications that another overhaul was in the works.
After a number of Rockettes expressed concerns about performing at the inauguration of President Trump, Marie Claire magazine published leaked remarks that Mr. Dolan made to a group of the dancers.
I dont believe its going to hurt the brand, the magazine quoted him as saying.
And nobody is more concerned about that than the guy sitting in this chair.
Im about to spend $50 million remounting this summer show.
Im going to spend a similar amount remounting next years Christmas show.
I gotta sell tickets.
But in February the Madison Square Garden Company announced that it would not be going forward with its 2017 show by Ms. Michaels after all.
It said it would take a one-year hiatus, adding that we remain committed to the production and look forward to the shows return in 2018.
Several Rockettes had been eager to return to Ms. Michaelss show, according to Ms. Malkin.
The show was expected to include a mix of precision dancing and other choreography that was different from the Christmastime production.
As a former Rockette and dancer, I thought it was refreshing to see the Rockettes do a different style and do it so incredibly well with the precision aspect in tact, Ms. Malkin said.
But in terms of where the audience as a whole is coming from, I guess they were expecting more of what they see for Christmas.
Or when Barrys young wife, Patty (Aimee Carrero), asks Atalantas boy toy, Freddie (Pico Alexander), how he could pick up a widow at her husbands funeral, he doltishly justifies himself: She came solo!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I believe Ive now provided enough bone fragments so you can confidently reconstruct the rest of the dinosaur.
To spare you the effort, heres a prcis.
The weathered 50-somethings Atalanta and Barry, who grew up together in Providence, are mismatched with the shallow 20-somethings Freddie and Patty, who once had a disastrous affair.
As hot-blooded Mediterranean stereotypes (though Patty is Puerto Rican) they cannot help but bay at the moon, write terrible poetry and shout the wrong names during sex.
The plays burden, like that of any number of romantic roundelays, is to get these wounded lovebirds repaired and re-paired before anyone is killed.
Not that the knives and fists brandished onstage ever get close to doing real damage.
The play is too superficial for that.
Rather, the deadliest (and funniest) weapon wielded in The Portuguese Kid is the ferocious stink-eye of Mary Testa as Fausta, the dragon mother to end all dragon mothers.
(Her last name, alas, is Dragonetti.)
I pray to God I never have to violate these eyes with the sight of you again, she snarls at Atalanta when the widow shows up at Barrys office for help resolving a tax problem.
Did I mention theres a plot?
Well there is, sort of, involving Atalantas various dead husbands and a real estate deal, but it doesnt make sense.
Mr. Shanley is more interested in the sound of conflict and reconciliation than in the actual details.
He thus spends the first two scenes of The Portuguese Kid burying images the way a squirrel buries nuts, and the last two scenes trying to dig them back up.
The result may sound like a play and look like a play but it isnt a play its just a collection of nuts.
Photo Perhaps it would have been more convincing if Mr. Shanley hadnt hired himself to direct.
A strong countervailing force might have encouraged him to look beyond the sitcom laugh track and might have informed him that his spice rack of gender and ethnic stereotypes (women are paradoxes; Puerto Ricans are firecrackers) has gone stale.
The designers, all tops in their fields in other productions, might have found a less garish palette, too; The Portuguese Kid looks like a picture book designed for children with cataracts.
Certainly a better director would have done more than let the play coast on the sorely tried inventiveness of its stars.
Ms. Scott is incapable of being uninteresting, even when furiously working to forge a character out of punch lines.
And Mr. Alexander mines a surprising amount of truthfulness, if not from his role as written then from himself.
Despite their ingenuity, the 100-minute play moves like a kicked horse: fast but grudging.
This is all a shame, if not a surprise.
Mr. Shanley, who has proved himself capable of great dramatic discipline in works like the Pulitzer Prize-winner Doubt (2004), has of late been exploring his shaggier side.
At least in Outside Mullingar (2014) and the autobiographical Prodigal Son (2016) it was still possible to feel that he was making deliberate choices to play with genre.
There was something to take away if you were willing to suspend disbelief and work at it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But in The Portuguese Kid, I fear he is no longer writing; hes scrapbooking.
Heres the page about Atalanta, the huntress of Greek mythology who killed any suitor who could not defeat her in a race.
Heres the page about Smiles of a Summer Night and A Little Night Music, with which the play shares a basic structure (and nothing else).
And here, heavily underlined, is the page about Neil Simon a playwright with whom you might once have thought Mr. Shanley had little in common.
These pages dont go together, any more than the plays lovers do in their initial configuration.
But instead of taking delight at the comedy of their eventual sorting out, I spent most of the play taking cover, so relentless and assaultive were the jokes.
To be fair, many in the audience last weekend appeared to be having a rollicking good time.
But though I laughed when poked to do so, or when Ms. Scott hurled off a terrific line reading, it was not the laughter of pleasure or recognition.
It was the kind sitcom characters sometimes cough up at a mortifying wedding or funeral.
Photo The Stratford Festival in Ontario, Canada, announced Wednesday that it has received its largest single donation, a pledge of 10 million Canadian dollars, or about $7.8 million, from its board chairman, Dan Bernstein, and his wife, Claire Foerster.
The donation is intended to help pay for a new theater space to replace the 46-year-old Tom Patterson Theater Center.
Dan and Claires remarkable gift is an incredible endorsement of the vision we have for the future of the Stratford Festival, said the festivals artistic director, Antoni Cimolino.
Photo Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Foerster are residents of Connecticut, where Mr. Bernstein is senior strategist and director of Bridgewater Associates, a hedge fund.
The Stratford Festival the largest nonprofit classical repertory theater in North America is an annual theater festival running from April to October and primarily dedicated to the work of William Shakespeare.
In 2016 it attracted over 500,000 visitors.
In addition to the pledge by Mr. Bernstein and Ms. Foerster, the government of Ontario has promised 20 million Canadian dollars for the project.
The Canadian federal government is reviewing a request from the festival for a similar amount.
The plans for the new theater, unveiled in August with a design by the Canadian architect Siamak Hariri, await approval from the city of Stratford; a City Council vote is expected by the end of November.
The festival estimates that the new theater will cost 60 million Canadian dollars, and a fund-raising campaign to meet that total and establish a fund for future operating costs is set to begin if the plans are approved.
Ms. Ziegler, a fertile writer of admirably varied style and subject, considers the before-and-after part, too.
But she has also dared to place The Last Match in the here and now of a game as its being played.
We follow, more or less set by set, the match between Tim, a long-reigning American golden boy in his mid-30s, and the decade-younger Sergei, a rising star from Russia.
Not that the actors ever hit a genuine tennis ball, and they only rarely pick up rackets.
Tim Mackabees open-sky blue-and-green set may evoke the daunting public stage of center court, but the real setting is the crowded interior of the players minds.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
So as the aging Tim and the explosive Sergei struggle toward match point, their thoughts roam into the long, dark corridors of their pasts and presents.
We learn of the agonizing attempts of Tim and his wife, Mallory (Zo Winters), a retired player, to conceive a child; and of the combustible courtship of Galina (Natalia Payne), an occasional actress of immense vicarious ambition, by Sergei.
When the memories are especially hurtful, or the introspection too self-defeating, one of the players drops a set.
Ms. Ziegler knows that self-consciousness is rarely an athletes friend, and there are moments when Tim or Sergei finds himself in the zone of a natural rhythm, when you almost palpably feel the satisfaction of instinctive performance.
More often, though, The Last Match evokes those literal-minded cinematic flashbacks, when a certain word makes a characters eyes and the cameras focus go hazy, and the story shifts woozily into a significant chapter in the past.
The substance of such recollected moments here isnt all that different from the thumbnail making-of-a-champion profiles that regularly punctuate Olympics broadcasts.
The performances rarely transcend the expected formula of such back stories.
And the womens roles are strictly supporting in all senses.
But the well-cast Mr. Bethel endows Tim with a smooth Teflon surface just starting to show scratches, and Mr. Mickiewicz has an infectiously good time as the angry, bad-behaving underdog with a thick Slavic accent.
As always, Ms. Ziegler whose work includes the biographical plays Photograph 51, about the scientist Rosalind Franklin (played in London by Nicole Kidman), and Boy has not only done her research, but clearly thought hard about the implications of what shes learned.
There is the stuff of an elegant (if less than original) essay in The Last Match on how we invest in athletes as symbols and reflections of our own mortality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Ziegler is also fast becoming a master of swelling choral dialogue, in which urgent but lyrical phrases are intoned in a counterpoint that seems to echo down the halls of history.
(The splendid British playwright Michael Frayn, the author of Copenhagen and Democracy, is this styles most accomplished practitioner.)
She delivers just such a sequence as The Last Match draws to its end.
If you may have felt like changing to the Golf Channel before, you are sure to refocus your attention and perhaps even go a little misty as this production concludes.
The routine back-and-forth of a hard-fought match finally approaches the ineffable radiance of one of those moments that tennis fans live for.
Time seems to stop in such moments, even as it extends into eternity.
Photo In America, there are stories we like to tell.
Stories about meritocracy and opportunity, about talent, hope and help.
We tell them, in part, so that we dont have to voice less comfortable truths that the circumstances of a persons birth often prophesy the life that follows.
Thats uniquely true of Oedipus, the limping princeling fated to kill his father and marry his mother.
Hes crossed seas and centuries to appear in Luis Alfaros vigorous and pointed Oedipus El Rey, at the Public Theater, which resets the tale in modern-day South Central Los Angeles.
Directed by Chay Yew with energy and flair, its the most successful offering yet from the Sol Project, an initiative dedicated to producing the work of Latinx playwrights.
The play opens in a prison complex, as a convict chorus rushes around the stage in orange scrubs and tries to decide what story to tell.
Stories are boring, some prisoners say; theyre depressing, they dont change anything.
But one chorus member says, Stories are all we got.
So they shed the scrubs and take on the roles in this Oedipus update.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As written by Sophocles, the original Oedipus Rex is an oldie but a goody, provided your definition of a goody is heavy on the incest and the self-mutilation.
And so it goes here.
When Laius (Juan Francisco Villa), a Los Angeles gangster, learns that his unborn son will kill him, he arranges to have the baby killed, slashing the bottoms of his feet for good measure.
I dont want him chasing me in the afterlife, Laius says.
JUNK at the Vivian Beaumont Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 2).
Invest in this latest work from the playwright Ayad Akhtar (Disgraced), a writer who specializes in nuanced characters and fraught ethical situations.
This drama, directed by Doug Hughes for Lincoln Center and starring Steven Pasquale, explores the high-stakes, low-equity world of 1980s finance.
212-239-6200, lct.org KNIVES IN HENS at 59E59 Theaters (in previews; opens on Oct. 29).
This 1995 play by David Harrower (Blackbird) is set in the Dark Ages.
And these particular ages are darker than most.
Paul Takacs directs the tale of a young woman (Robyn Kerr) tethered to a cruel husband who finds liberation through language.
212-279-4200, 59e59.org METEOR SHOWER at the Booth Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 29).
Stars shooting and otherwise will align for the Broadway run of this absurdist comedy from Steve Martin.
Amy Schumer, Keegan-Michael Key, Laura Benanti and Jeremy Shamos play two married couples united by an astronomical event and divided by almost everything else.
Jerry Zaks directs.
212-239-6200, MeteorOnBroadway.com RED ROSES, GREEN GOLD at the Minetta Lane Theater (in previews; opens on Oct. 29).
Living deadheads can welcome this new musical, which draws on the music and lyrics of Jerry Garcia and Robert Hunter.
It remains to be seen if this trip, with a book by Michael Norman Mann and choreography and direction by Rachel Klein, will be long or strange.
But it involves a swindler named Jackson Jones.
800-745-3000, redrosesgreengold.com SCHOOL GIRLS; OR, THE AFRICAN MEAN GIRLS PLAY at the Lucille Lortel Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 19).
In Jocelyn Biohs comedy about beauty, difference and malice, the pupils at a Ghanaian girls school compete for their shot at beauty pageant fame.
Under the Tony winner Rebecca Taichmans direction, Zainab Jah and Myra Lucretia Taylor star in this MCC production.
866-811-4111, mcctheater.org UNCOMMON SENSE at the Sheen Center for Thought & Culture (in previews; opens on Nov. 2).
A play for the neurotypical and others, this new piece for Tectonic Theater Project is written by Anushka Paris-Carter and Andy Paris and directed by Mr. Paris.
It is inspired by the true stories of four people on the autism spectrum.
212-925-2812, sheencenter.org Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
WHAT WERE UP AGAINST at the WP Theater (previews start on Oct. 28; opens on Nov. 8).
In Theresa Rebecks play at the WP Theater, its 1992 and an architect, Eliza (Krysta Rodriguez), has just joined a new firm.
Too bad her chauvinist colleagues cant design themselves better working relationships.
Adrienne Campbell-Holt directs this dark comedy of construction problems and unreconstructed attitudes.
866-811-4111, wptheater.org THE WOLVES at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater (previews start on Nov. 1; opens on Nov. 20).
Sarah DeLappes prizewinning play about a high school soccer team returns to the field.
When the show, directed by Lila Neugebauer, ran last year, Ben Brantley wrote that the scary, exhilarating brightness of raw adolescence emanates from every scene.
212-239-6200, lct.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story Last Chance MARY JANE at New York Theater Workshop (closes on Oct. 29).
Amy Herzogs play about a single mother caring for her sick child ends its Off Broadway run.
Jesse Green wrote that this production, directed by Anne Kauffman and starring Carrie Coon, is the most profound and harrowing of Ms. Herzogs many fine plays.
212-460-5475, nytw.org {MY LINGERIE PLAY}: INSTALLATION #9: THE CONCERT AND CALL TO ARMS!!!!!!!!!
THE FINAL INSTALLATION at Rattlestick Playwrights Theater (closes on Oct. 28).
Diana Oh and an impressive selection of undies end their Off-Broadway run.
Laura Collins-Hughes describes this blend of music and storytelling, co-directed by Orion Stephanie Johnstone, as a glitter bomb of feminist and queer protest that feels just right for this cultural moment.
866-811-4111, rattlestick.org PRINCE OF BROADWAY at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater (closes on Oct. 29).
This revue celebrating the storied career of the producer and director Harold Prince sets down its black-framed glasses.
Ben Brantley likened this scattered show, which spans six decades and includes a bounty of showstoppers, to hearing a rushed raconteur drop name after famous name.
212-239-6200, manhattantheatreclub.com THE TREASURER at Playwrights Horizons (closes on Nov. 5).
Max Posners play about a grown son managing the finances of his ailing mother closes its purse strings.
Ben Brantley admired how this tender and unforgiving play, directed by David Cromer, adroitly balances the everyday and the extreme.
212-279-4200, phnyc.org WAR PAINT at the Nederlander Theater (closes on Nov. 5).
Audiences will have a tougher time thinking pink when this musical about the beauty moguls Elizabeth Arden and Helena Rubinstein takes off its makeup.
Ben Brantley described the show, which stars Patti LuPone and Christine Ebersole, as a double portrait of unchanging women during changing times.
877-250-2929, warpaintmusical.com
Photo Q.
When did Broadway become shorthand for professional theater?
A.
Although Dutch settlers originally came up with the name for what would become a famous thoroughfare, the term, as it relates to theater, appears to have originated in the late 1860s, when productions like The Black Crook, a popular show that some consider the first modern musical, went on tour.
After the Civil War, the phrase direct from Broadway emerged in advertising when shows traveled to other cities, said Jennifer Ashley Tepper, a theater historian and producer.
Everyone knew Broadway was where the best theaters were.
Such tours were suddenly possible because of significant expansion and improvements to the nations railroad network, made for military purposes during the Civil War.
Before then, the touring production was rare.
You would have a Broadway cast do a show in New York, and that would be it, said John Kenrick, a theater writer and historian who manages the website Musicals101.com.
You couldnt bring the sets, the costumes, everything that made the show what it was, until the railroad system was developed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Professional theater in New York dates back to at least 1732.
The few theaters that opened before the Revolutionary War were small, holding at most a few hundred people.
Photo A former theater agent has been sentenced to six months in jail after admitting that he bilked investors of hundreds of thousands of dollars to back a nonexistent Broadway play.
Roland Scahill, 42, confessed to a scheme that took place between October 2014 and August 2015, in which Mr. Scahill told associates that he had secured the rights to the life story of Kathleen Battle, the opera singer, and was going to produce a one-woman play called The Kathleen Battle Project with Lupita Nyongo as its star.
Ms. Nyongo had no knowledge of this, nor did the Shubert Organization, which Mr. Scahill said was offering up the Booth Theater to house the show.
Mr. Scahill also said he had told investors that he had struck a deal with Netflix to stream a performance of the show.
In total, Mr. Scahill confessed to defrauding 10 investors of $205,000, according to court papers.
In the plea agreement, Mr. Scahill said, I never purchased life rights from Kathleen Battle, I never contracted with Lupita Nyongo to star, I never procured the Booth Theater as a venue for the show, and I never had a contract with Netflix.
As part of the deal, Mr. Scahill paid back the remaining amount of about $90,000 that he owed the investors in restitution.
In a statement, the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., said, Through his elaborate overtures to investors, Roland Scahill scammed patrons of the arts to the tune of more than $200,000.
We are pleased to have brought his larcenous scheme to a grand finale.
When criticized for playing a black domestic worker in a white household, he responded that he saw Benson as a paean to the black working mans struggle.
When he took the part, he said, he decided that while Benson might be a servant, he would never be servile.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I wanted black people to be proud of Benson, he wrote in his autobiography, Guillaume: A Life (with David Ritz, 2002).
Mr. Guillaume said Bensons sharp tongue and dignified mien had allowed him to transcend his station while getting laughs.
What made the humor was that he didnt care what people thought about him, he said of the character in an interview for this obituary in 2011.
He wasnt trying to be mean; he was just trying to be his own man.
On Soap, Susan Harriss soap-opera satire, Benson would admonish the members of the wealthy Tate family for their antics amid the shows absurd plot twists, which included demonic possession and alien abduction.
He won the Emmy for best supporting actor in a comedy series in 1979.
That same year, Benson left the Tates for the governors mansion and his own series.
In its first seasons he was the head of household affairs for Gov.
Eugene Gatling (James Noble); he eventually rose to budget director, lieutenant governor and finally a rival for the governors seat itself.
Photo Benson ended in 1986 with Benson and Gatling, now consummate equals, seated side by side awaiting the results of the election in which they had run against each other.
Mr. Guillaume won the Emmy for best lead actor in a comedy series in 1985.
Benson was followed in 1989 by The Robert Guillaume Show, a comedy in which he played a psychologist who becomes romantically involved with a white woman.
The show was canceled after 12 episodes.
Mr. Guillaume, who had had interracial relationships long before they were more widely accepted in the United States, blamed his own navet for the shows demise.
I was ultimately responsible for that failure by not understanding what a wrenching change it would represent to an audience still uncomfortable with the subject, he said in 2011.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Guillaume went on to play an executive producer, Isaac Jaffe, on Aaron Sorkins Sports Night (1998-2000), a sitcom about the inner workings of a show much like ESPNs SportsCenter.
When Mr. Guillaume had a stroke in 1999, Mr. Sorkin wrote a stroke into the script for the character so that he could continue playing the part.
Photo Mr. Guillaume was born Robert Peter Williams on Nov. 30, 1927, in St. Louis.
His mother, Zoe Bertha Edwards, was an alcoholic and a prostitute.
He never knew his father.
His grandmother Jeanette Williams reared him after a stepfather struck him in the head with a red-hot poker.
Robert attended a Roman Catholic high school, where he sang in the choir.
He joined the Army in 1945, but the war was over by the time he reached Okinawa in the Pacific.
He was honorably discharged in 1947.
After the war he enrolled at St. Louis University to study business on the G.I.
Bill.
He later studied singing and theater at Washington University in St. Louis but never earned a degree.
He married Marlene Scott in 1955.
They separated but remained married for nearly three decades before divorcing in the mid-1980s.
In the late 1950s Mr. Guillaume moved to Cleveland to play Billy Bigelow in the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical Carousel at Karamu House, a historically black theater.
It was there that he adopted the surname Guillaume (the French form of William), inspired by his grandfathers tales of his familys French heritage.
(He also had Native American ancestors.)
You know how many Robert Williamses there are in this country?
Mr. Guillaume said in a 1977 interview with The Times.
I wanted something different.
He later wrote that frequent mispronunciations of Guillaume (gee-YOME, with a hard g) were the price Ive paid for my pretentiousness.
Photo Mr. Guillaume left Cleveland in 1959 to tour with the short-lived Harold Arlen musical Free and Easy, which played in Amsterdam but did not make it to the United States.
Soon afterward he moved to New York, where his stage career would flourish.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Guillaume played the drug dealer Sportin Life in a 1964 revival of Porgy and Bess at City Center and the lead role, the preacher Purlie Victorious Judson, in the 1972 Broadway revival of Purlie, a musical set in the Jim Crow South.
He also toured for four years with the musical revue Jacques Brel Is Alive and Well and Living in Paris.
Mr. Guillaume never made it to the Metropolitan Opera, although he did star in the Los Angeles production of The Phantom of the Opera in 1990.
He landed his part in Soap in 1977 after a Tony-nominated run as Nathan Detroit in an all-black Broadway revival of Guys and Dolls.
Mr. Guillaume appeared in a few feature films, notably Lean on Me (1989) and Big Fish (2003); guest-starred on shows like All in the Family and The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air; voiced the baboon Rafiki in The Lion King and its straight-to-video sequels; released several albums of his singing; and received four N.A.A.C.P.
Image Awards.
He also won a Grammy in 1995 for best spoken word album for children for his narration on The Lion King Read Along.
He married Donna Brown in 1985.
He is also survived by three daughters, Patricia Carpenter and Melissa and Rachel Guillaume; one son, Kevin; four grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; and one great-great-granddaughter.
Mr. Guillaume acknowledged that racism created problems for him, but he never considered them insurmountable.
I have trouble handling the whole idea that its tough to get a job because youre black, he told The Times in 1977.
White actors have problems, too; if youre black its just one more problem that you have to deal with.
This wasnt the first time that someone in the Newman Theater had reacted emotionally to a monologue by Ms. Vardalos or one of her three castmates, in the play she adapted from Cheryl Strayeds book of the same name, based on her long-running online advice column, Dear Sugar.
It is now in its second iteration at the Public after a critically acclaimed run last fall.
(Ms. Strayed now collaborates with Steve Almond on the Sweet Spot column for the Thursday Styles section of The New York Times and its accompanying podcast Dear Sugars.)
Earlier that evening, in fact, another young woman, sitting in the third row, started crying at the point when Sugar told of how her mother had never lived to see her granddaughter wear the red dress the two women had bought impulsively at a yard sale years earlier.
And she started up again this time more loudly near the end of the show when the character played by Teddy Caez narrated the tale of a father who had lost his only son at age 22.
Photo I felt I had to carry her through the show, Ms. Vardalos said.
We must listen constantly, not just to each other, acting and reacting, but also to what is going on in the audience.
Because the audience becomes part of the performance.
Any play is going to have its challenges, of course, from complicated monologues to quicksilver scene changes to the distractions of cellphones going off or someone snoring away in the front row.
(Oh, yes, Ive seen that as well, Ms. Vardalos said.)
But Tiny Beautiful Things, with its tales of untimely death, a miscarriage that still haunts years later and sexual assault all taken from the letters written to Ms. Strayed and then her often deeply personal responses has an emotional rawness that seems to grab audiences in unexpected ways.
(Of course, not every story is a sad one: At least one monologue, about a sexy Santa, gets laughs every night.)
If you have 300 people in the theater, then the odds are someone is there on the anniversary of someone they loved passing away, or maybe of a relationship ending, said the director Thomas Kail.
So something that may mean nothing to you might resonate deeply with the person sitting behind you.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After a recent Sunday matinee, four old friends two visiting from Canada, two living in New York gathered on the sidewalk outside the Public to reflect on the play they had just seen.
It was like group therapy, Carolyn McAskie, 71, said to her friends, laughing.
I know, responded Roxanne Carrillo, 65.
I believe it was 90 minutes, but it felt much shorter, like I had just left a 50-minute session with my shrink.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
On another night, Monique Bernstein, 28, stood in the lobby of the Public, holding a program for Ms. Vardalos to autograph while wiping away traces of the tears she had shed during the last extended monologue, about the father mourning his son.
I had read the book and I loved it, she said.
But there is something about seeing it with an audience, as opposed to just reading a book by yourself, that is sort of a bonding experience.
Like there was a woman sniffling behind me, and Im like, I dont feel so bad!
Its been almost exactly a year since Tiny Beautiful Things was staged at the Public the first time around, selling out its brief run, and both Ms. Vardalos and Mr. Kail (a Tony Award winner for Hamilton) say they see small but significant differences in how audiences are now reacting.
Photo The theater itself may be one reason the tears seem to be flowing so freely in the current production.
Mr. Kail said the move to larger house the original venue, the Shiva Theater, held 99 seats; the Newman, more than three times that has made the experience more intimate, not less so, by letting the audience slip into the anonymity of darkness.
The Newman is both narrow and deep, with lights from the stage reflecting only on audience members in the first few rows.
There is something about the length of the theater, and the darkness that unfolds, that allows deep reactions to come out, Mr. Kail said.
And that was one of the questions we had when we first started working on this: Can we bring a group of people together, people who have never met, sitting shoulder to shoulder in the dark, and really get them to unlock?
Mr. Kail said he was in the audience the night the young woman burst into her howl of anguish.
Each person on that stage, all four of them, were affected in their own way, he said.
They each had to grapple with what it meant to hear someone who was clearly in pain.
It opened up and expanded the show in ways I hadnt seen on other nights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After each performance, Ms. Vardalos exits through the lobby of the Public, signing autographs, posing for selfies, even laughing and joking with people who might have been choking back tears in their seats a few minutes earlier but now are thrilled to meet the star of My Big Fat Greek Wedding.
But not every night.
Sometimes, I will have been so affected by what happens in the audience, that I dont come out right away, she said.
I need to just sit by myself.
I know people are waiting and as actors, we aim to please but there are times I cant come out.
I just cant.
Both she and Mr. Kail say they believe that there is something beyond the changed physical space that is causing such profound emotional reactions this time around.
And that is the country itself.
Deep wounds that remain from a divisive presidential election.
White supremacists marching in Charlottesville.
The massacre in Las Vegas.
Hurricanes in Houston, Florida and Puerto Rico.
The threat of nuclear war with North Korea.
All are factors the two believe may make people hungry to find comfort in the theater.
We are also so different now, Mr. Kail said.
There is a lot of pain, Ms. Vardalos said.
And I think that Cheryls words are a salve for the pain we are going through.
Photo The Tony-winning play The Humans will embark on a 13-city national tour starting in Seattle next month.
Written by Stephen Karam, the play depicts a middle-class American family gathering on Thanksgiving; their economic anxieties and familial and generational tensions are soon laid bare over dinner.
The Humans opened on Broadway in February 2016 to rapturous reviews: In The New York Times, Charles Isherwood called it the finest new play of the Broadway season so far by a long shot.
He added, Mr. Karams play might almost qualify as deep-delving reportage, so clearly does it illuminate the current, tremor-ridden landscape of contemporary America.
The Humans won four Tony Awards, including best play.
Seattle will be the first stop, starting Nov. 17.
The play will travel through cities including Chicago (Jan. 30-Feb. 11), Cleveland (April 10-29), Dallas (May 8-20), and finally Los Angeles (June 19-July 29).
Richard Thomas, who received a Tony nomination for The Little Foxes last year, will star as the bewildered patriarch, Erik.
The cast also includes Pamela Reed as Deirdre and Daisy Eagan a Tony winner at age 11 for The Secret Garden as Brigid.
Joe Mantello, who directed the Broadway production, will stay on for the tour, as will David Zinn, who won the Tony for scenic design.
While touring musicals are common, it is much rarer for plays to travel.
The biggest exception, of course, is Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, which will open up shop in Australia in 2019 after arriving in New York next April.
A full list of tour stops can be found at www.thehumansonbroadway.com.
Photo LONDON An adaptation of Charles Dickenss A Christmas Carol, by Jack Thorne (Let the Right One In, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child,), starring Rhys Ifans.
A new two-part play, The Divide, by Alan Ayckbourn.
The stage premiere of Ingmar Bergmans 1982 film, Fanny and Alexander.
A musical dance production, Sylvia, directed by Kate Prince, about the female rights campaigner Sylvia Pankhurst.
New work is the theme of the Old Vics 2017-18 season, announced on Tuesday, ahead of the theaters 200th birthday on May 11, 2018.
To honor the Old Vic, Matthew Warchus, its artistic director, said in a statement, We are celebrating it partly as a treasured historic icon but mostly as an adventurous, youthful, hub of creativity with a vibrant future ahead of it.
Mr. Thornes version of A Christmas Carol will open the season, on Nov. 20, followed by Mr. Ayckbourns The Divide, which had its premiere at this years Edinburgh International Festival, and is set in a gender-partitioned future society.
The Academy Award-winning Fanny and Alexander, adapted by Stephen Beresford and directed by Max Webster, is at its full five-hour version one of the longest fiction films made.
Mr. Warchus said in an interview with The Evening Standard that while the show would be quite meaty, it would have a normal playing time.
He added that the story of Fanny and Alexander about two siblings whose lives change when their mother remarries was not unlike Matilda the Musical, in that attempts to bully the imagination out of a child result in the imagination growing stronger and stronger.
Photo Other productions to be staged during the 2017-18 season include the premiere of Mood Music by Joe Penhall, who wrote the book for the West End musical Sunny Afternoon and created the new Netflix series Mindhunter.
An adaptation of Patrick Nesss novel, A Monster Calls, about a young boy coping with his mothers terminal cancer, directed by Sally Cookson, will come to the stage, after it was made into a movie last year.
The Old Vic also announced seven new associate artists, including the writers Mr. Thorne, Mr. Beresford, Conor McPherson, Tamsin Oglesby and Lucy Prebble, and the composer Claire van Kampen, whose Farinelli and the King will come to Broadway in December.
Photo LONDON Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, the hit British play and final installment of J.K. Rowlings cult fantasy series, is off to Australia.
The two-part production will be staged at Melbournes Princess Theater in 2019.
It is based on an original script by Ms. Rowling, Jack Thorne and John Tiffany, and is set 19 years after the end of the last Harry Potter novel.
In a video announcement, Ms. Rowling said: I am very excited about coming to Australia with The Cursed Child.
Ive never been to Australia in my life; maybe at last Ill get there down under.
The play, which runs for five hours, follows a grown-up Harry Potter, his wife, Ginny Weasley, and their son Albus Severus, who is starting at Hogwarts, the school for witches and wizards where the novels were set.
With some bravado, Angel insists that what he did was therefore only technically wrong.
(He tells his court-appointed lawyer that he merely aimed at Kims water-buffalo-sized posterior.)
But after he lands in 24-hour protective custody, one hour of which is spent each day in a cage in the jail yard, he meets his philosophical match.
There in the next cage is Lucius Jenkins, a serial murderer and self-described paranoid schizophrenic trying to avoid extradition to Florida and probable execution there.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The moral argument between these two men forms the heart of the play, as Lucius, who says he found God in prison, confronts Angel, who long ago lost God outside it.
That Lucius (Edi Gathegi) is generally sunny and witty despite having killed eight people plays with our loyalties.
He is the one who reaches out, shares cigarettes, warns about the Monday soup and recites the names of the books of the Old Testament, backward, while doing deep knee bends and lunges.
Angel, on the other hand, acquires the nickname of Droopy Dog.
When the psychopath is an acute thinker about responsibility and the atheist a tantrum-prone man-child hoping to avoid it, we have trouble deciding how to invest our emotions.
That is exactly where Mr. Guirgis, who won a 2015 Pulitzer Prize for Between Riverside and Crazy, wants us: in a confused crouch that renders us vulnerable to deeper questioning.
He then mercilessly exploits that vulnerability by adding a contrasting pair of guards to the mix: one, named Charlie, a good-natured patsy; the other, Valdez, a by-the-rules sadist.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
Dont be a God-fearing man, Valdez warns Lucius, be a Valdez-fearing man.
So where is God where is good in the criminal justice system?
The questions dont so much hover over Jesus Hopped the A Train as yank at it with gale force.
There is nothing abstract about them: Mr. Guirgis says that the play began in his own attempt to rescue a friend from the Unification Church.
Perhaps it is to keep the drama from flying into pieces, therefore, that he clamps the procedural frame so firmly in place around the prisoners debates.
Their scenes together alternate with ones in which Angels lawyer, Mary Jane Hanrahan, must break through his perverse resistance in order to prepare him for court.
As long as these interviews maintain the plays furiously Socratic tone, they enhance the idea that making good choices in an evil world is nearly beyond the human skill set.
But in a series of monologues that pull further back from the action, Hanrahans reflections on the case, and on her own investment in it, dissipate the tension.
This slight flaw in the writing is exacerbated by a few awkward directorial choices, including a Law & Order-like chung-chung sound effect between scenes.
This leads you to expect Jerry Orbach, or a neat denouement that Mr. Guirgis is not about to provide.
But Mark Brokaws staging on a simple set by Riccardo Hernandez, sensitively lit by Scott Zielinski, is otherwise evenhanded and clean, as if not wanting to leave any fingerprints.
He has rightly focused instead on shaping the cast into a superlative ensemble despite a series of setbacks: Both Mr. Carvajal and Mr. Gathegi, who are excellent, were late replacements.
Thats astonishing, as their roles are killers in more ways than one.
The others Stephanie DiMaggio as Hanrahan, Erick Betancourt as Charlie and especially Ricardo Chavira as the terrifying Valdez support them, and the plays whipsawing arguments, handily.
Those arguments are eternal, as the frequent biblical references suggest.
But they are also particular to our time and place, perhaps even more so now that the United States is the worlds largest jailer than they were in 2000.
In 2017 Jesus Hopped the A Train seems to ask whether justice, and even God, is possible in an unjust society.
No wonder its so profane.
Grim forecasts for the day after tomorrow have informed a slew of dystopian plays in recent years, and After the Blast isnt venturing into virgin territory.
The script especially brings to mind Jordan Harrisons Marjorie Prime, seen in New York in 2015 (and made into a recent movie), in which replicants become comforters for the old and lonely; and Penelope Skinners The Ruins of Civilization (2016), which concerns a husband-dominated, stay-at-home woman of tomorrow yearning for a child.
Photo Like Ruins, After the Blast intimates that the lot of womankind will not have improved radically, though neither work approaches the retrogressive horrors of The Handmaids Tale.
A third-generation descendant of select Americans who make up an underground colony after the earths surface becomes unlivable, Anna stays at home and mopes while her brilliant scientist husband, Oliver (William Jackson Harper of TVs The Good Place), toils for the betterment of the upper earths ecology.
If only this couple could receive approval to conceive a child from the population-monitoring government, Anna might find a raison dtre.
But she fails to meet the happiness quotient expected of parents-to-be, nor is she a willing conformist in an assembly-line culture.
Shes suspicious, for instance, of the virtual-reality chips with which the underground colonists have been implanted.
These allow people to simulate experiences like visiting the seashore or tasting flavorful food that their regulated environment does not offer naturally.
Indulging in these vivid visions is known as simming, and even Oliver, it turns out, does it on the q.t.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ms. Kazan a vivid actress and the screenwriter of the charmingly fantastical Ruby Sparks has fulfilled the first criterion of persuasive futurist fiction: Shes created a slyly detailed alternate universe that is both an extrapolation of the world we know today and its own consistent entity.
Daniel Zimmermans sets are alarmingly, soothingly bland, suggesting an interior decorating collaboration between Ikea and Apple.
And the cast which also includes Eboni Booth and Ben Horner as Oliver and Annas best friends subtly conveys a cautious and subdued population, which has learned to neither hope nor ask for too much.
Perhaps the anodyne factor of this wan new world accounts for the lack of tension in After the Blast.
But its also true that the characters often seem to have little existence beyond their functions as avatars of a new social order.
The relationship between Oliver and Anna, in particular, never acquires the heat to make us feel anxious when its in jeopardy.
And the revelation of an act of betrayal that Anna uncovers in the plays final scenes fails to land with the intended impact.
We feel most invested in Annas friendship with Arthur (voiced by Will Connolly), who is ultimately, of course, just an extension of her lonely self.
Pausing to think about the implications of that is perhaps the best way to register the warning in a play in which reality, as we have traditionally known and sensed it, is increasingly in retreat.
Photo The playwright and director Aaron Mark likes to tell creepy stories in the dark, or as close as he can get to it.
Two seasons ago, when Daphne Rubin-Vega played a woman with a grisly past in Mr. Marks monologue Empanada Loca, the glow of a trash-can fire illuminated the gloom.
Squeamish, his ghoulish new play starring Alison Fraser, is also a one-woman affair.
Presented by All for One Theater in the Beckett Theater at Theater Row, it, too, is cloaked in an unusually enveloping blackness.
It is the middle of the night in a psychiatrists home office on the Upper West Side, and Sharon is explaining how shes been for the past five months, ever since she went off her antidepressants and stopped checking in.
Lets just say, a lots happened, she says, settled comfortably into a leather wing chair.
(The set and its dusky-dim lighting are by Sarah Johnston.)
Chipper and well put together, with a cultured voice whose lilt is a charming remnant of her Texas past, Sharon is a psychotherapist.
If at first she doesnt seem in dire need of an emergency session about her own troubles, listen awhile.
She could use way more drastic help than that.
Like Ms. Rubin-Vegas subterranean dweller and the charismatic psychopath Tom Hewitt played in Mr. Marks Another Medea, Sharon is an entertaining raconteur whose ordinary life has taken a Grand Guignol turn.
Shes just back from Texas, where she went for the funeral of her beloved nephew, Eddie.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The strange thing about Eddie, who was 24, is how he died: bleeding out in the bathtub, as Sharons mother did decades before.
Just like her, he had cut marks all over his body.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
At the funeral, Eddies sweet-voiced sprite of a girlfriend, Cara, comforts her fellow mourners cheerfully.
When she turns up later at Sharons hotel, the two women bond.
Then Cara lets Sharon in on a certain gruesome secret about Eddie.
Unspooling over three generations of a family, it revolves around the beguiling Nina Leeds, who, as the play begins, is a young woman mourning her first love and tormented by the fact that she never slept with him.
Killed in World War I, he was her male ideal.
Even in death, he is an object of jealousy for the other men in her life, including her professor father and her familys friend Charlie Marsden, an author sexually uninterested in women but obsessed with Nina all the same.
Dear old Charlie, Nina likes to say, her platonic fondness a dagger to his heart, but Charlie is her mainstay through the tumultuous years.
After Nina marries Sam Evans, a nice guy she doesnt love, she discovers that insanity runs in his family a secret he doesnt know and she isnt about to tell him.
To give Sam a child but avoid the risk of passing along mental illness, she enlists her friend Ned Darrell to get her pregnant on the sly.
The plan works, except that their arrangement blossoms into an affair, and Ned isnt wild about seeing his son raised by another man.
The boy, in turn, is haunted by spying his mother kissing Ned.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Its a crowded play, and ONeill layers its abundant dialogue with the racing thoughts of his characters, who speak their anxieties and suspicions aloud for the audiences benefit.
However many people Mr. Greenspan is playing in a given scene, he is operating on double that number of tracks and following along, so are we.
This takes some getting used to, but its like the way your ear has to adjust to Shakespeare.
Give it a little time, and youll ease right in.
The straightforwardness of the design sets and costume by Dane Laffrey, lighting by Jen Schriever helps here.
Mr. Greenspan wears a classic three-piece suit throughout, and the playing spaces for the first seven acts are intimate, contained within a wooden structure that Mr. Laffrey has nestled inside the cavernous theater.
But sound is a stubborn obstacle to this delicately modulated performance.
Ceiling fans whir softly over the audience in those initial spaces, making it difficult to hear, especially when Mr. Greenspan lowers his voice to a whisper or moves upstage.
Well into the show on Friday night, the fans were turned off, and the difference was remarkable: Act VI featuring Nina; Ned; and my two favorites, the aw-shucks Sam and the petty, surprisingly sympathetic Charlie actually rollicked.
For the final two acts, though, we migrated upstairs to the mezzanine, where echoey acoustics and a sudden distance from Mr. Greenspan, separated from us by the balcony railing, got in the way.
Still, his performance is astonishing in its clarity, nuance and endurance.
When, at the end of that evenings marathon, Mr. Greenspan took a too-brief bow, I thought: Wait, come back.
Were not done thanking you.
Photo Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo of New York closed the book on a famed and fraught chapter in the states cultural history on Thursday, signing a bill that outlaws the use of elephants in entertainment acts such as circuses and parades.
The bill, known as the Elephant Protection Act, was passed in June by the state legislature after years of charges from animal-rights groups that elephants used in performances are subjected to inhumane and injurious treatment.
It comes late in a wave of increased efforts to preserve the animals.
Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, which permanently closed its doors this spring, had phased elephants out of its shows a year prior.
And the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, signed a similar law pertaining to the five boroughs in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The use of elephants in these types of settings is dangerous to their health and potentially abusive, Governor Cuomo said in a statement.
The Elephant Protection Act furthers this administrations efforts to fight animal cruelty, and create a stronger, more humane New York.
Photo The Prom, a musical comedy that weaves high school lesbians and self-involved thespians into a heartwarming confection, is coming to Broadway.
The musical, which was staged at the Alliance Theater in Atlanta last year, is about a group of publicity-hungry Broadway actors who decide to intervene when a small-town Indiana high school cancels its prom rather than let two girls attend as a couple.
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution dubbed it a crowd-pleasing spectacle with a well-intentioned message, while Variety called it loopy, loving and joyous.
The shows producers announced Friday that the musical will open on Nov. 15, 2018, at an unspecified Shubert theater.
In a sign of how tight the competition for theaters has become, The Prom is one of several shows that have already announced plans to open next season, even though this season has just begun: among the others are Gettin The Band Back Together, Straight White Men, The Cher Show, Pretty Woman, King Kong and To Kill a Mockingbird.
The Prom, originally conceived by Jack Viertel, features a book by Bob Martin (The Drowsy Chaperone) and Chad Beguelin (Aladdin); music by Matthew Sklar (The Wedding Singer); and lyrics by Mr. Beguelin.
The musical is directed by the Tony Award winner Casey Nicholaw (The Book of Mormon).
The musicals lead producers are Dori Berinstein and Bill Damaschke.
His target this time is Christian, the curator of a modern-art museum in Stockholm whose finely crafted life is undone when an ill-conceived plan to get back his stolen wallet and iPhone unwittingly results in a public relations scandal.
The Danish actor Claes Bang a hit at Cannes, where The Square won the Palme dOr thus igniting a Bang for Bond (as in 007) campaign stars as Christian alongside Dominic West, as an artist whose gallery talk is interrupted by an audience member with Tourettes syndrome; Terry Notary, as an ape-man whose performance piece for a patrons dinner veers horrifyingly close to reality; and Elisabeth Moss, as an American journalist who beds Christian, leading to the most hilariously paranoid tussle over a used condom that some of us will ever witness.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK Photo Theater: Wooster Group Performs The B-Side Oct. 25-Nov. 19; thewoostergroup.org.
There is a hushed, meditative reverence to the Wooster Groups show Early Shaker Spirituals, a mesmeric combination of traditional music and dance, based on a recording.
Directed by Kate Valk and performed by women in prim Shaker attire, it is billed as a record album interpretation.
When the actor Eric Berryman saw that production two years ago, he was inspired to create something similar.
He brought the idea to the Wooster Group, along with an album made in 1964 by the folklorist Bruce Jackson, containing the singing and spoken words of black men locked up on segregated prison farms.
They were the voices Mr. Berryman wanted to pay homage to.
Directed by Ms. Valk, designed by Elizabeth LeCompte and starring Mr. Berryman, the resulting show is The B-Side: Negro Folklore From Texas State Prisons, which starts Wednesday, Oct. 25, at the Performing Garage in SoHo.
Last fall, a work in progress showing there was spare, alive and nothing short of transcendent.
LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES Photo Dance: Benjamin Millepied at Koch Theater Through Oct. 29; abt.org.
American Ballet Theater is entering the realm of pop-up dance.
As part of the companys fall run at the David H. Koch Theater, the choreographer Benjamin Millepied will present not one, but two premieres.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Along with I Feel the Earth Move, set to music by Philip Glass and debuting Wednesday, Oct. 25, in the usual place the theaters proscenium stage he will also present Counterpoint for Philip Johnson.
Performed during intermission on select programs, the dance was created in homage to Philip Johnson, the architect of the building, which opened in 1964.
Set to Steve Reichs Nagoya Marimba, the new work, with costumes by Rag & Bone, showcases 24 dancers from American Ballet Theaters Studio Company and the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis School.
During his dancing days, Mr. Millepied, a former member of New York City Ballet, which counts the theater as its base, spent plenty of time on the promenade.
How will he bring it to dancing life?
GIA KOURLAS Classical: The Philharmonic Celebrates Bernstein Oct. 25-28, 31; nyphil.org.
Although Leonard Bernsteins 100th birthday is not until next August, classical music institutions have already begun to fete the centennial of the enduring American cultural icon.
Even Lin-Manuel Miranda got into the game, quoting a line from West Side Story for the hook of his star-studded new song to benefit hurricane victims in Puerto Rico, Almost Like Praying.
The New York Philharmonic celebrates its iconic former music director with the festival Bernsteins Philharmonic, which will include performances of the composers complete orchestral works.
Even if his reputation was made by West Side Story, Bernsteins Jeremiah Symphony and Serenade (After Platos Symposium), featured on the first weekend of the festival, are formidable symphonic statements.
It is fitting that the program features violin soloist Joshua Bell, an inheritor to Bernsteins populist charm, and is conducted by Alan Gilbert, whose now-concluded tenure as the New York Philharmonics music director was a spiritual successor to that of Bernstein.
WILLIAM ROBIN TV: Fearless on Amazon Prime Oct. 27; amazon.com.
I was in East Anglia today, and I went past the place where where my unraveling started, Emma Banville, a human rights lawyer, played by Helen McCrory, tells her hospitalized father in Fearless, a British thriller debuting Friday, Oct. 27, on Amazon Prime.
(And, yes, thats Donald Trump alongside Margaret Thatcher and Tony Blair in the opening montage.)
The dogged Banville who throws back whiskey shots and chain-smokes cigarillos while pulling all-nighters in the name of justice has taken on the case of Kevin Russell (Sam Swainsbury), convicted of murdering a schoolgirl 14 years earlier despite his insistence of innocence.
But when a questionable confession at the hands of Detective Inspector Olivia Greenwood (Wunmi Mosaku) now assigned to counterterrorism command results in Russells freedom, pending a retrial, Banville is snared in a Pandoras box involving Sir Alastair McKinnon (Michael Gambon), a disquieted politician turned Cambridge master who has summoned sinister American operatives to the scene.
Patrick Harbinson, the shows creator, keeps Fearless and its tangly intrigue all in the family: He was a former writer and executive producer of Homeland, in which Ms. McCrorys husband, Damian Lewis, originally starred.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Photo As the executive director of the Public Theater, Patrick Willingham has overseen the production of award-winning shows like Sweat, Hamilton, and Fun Home.
He, along with the artistic director Oskar Eustis, are in charge of five theaters at the Publics headquarters in Manhattans East Village, as well as the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, where Shakespeare in the Park is performed each summer.
Mr. Willingham, who turned 50 in March, is about the same age as the musical Hair, which had its world premiere as part of the Publics first season at its then-new home on Lafayette Street on Oct. 17, 1967.
Mr. Willingham lives a block from his workplace, in a two-bedroom apartment with his boyfriend, the Rev.
William H. Critzman, a pastor at the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York, and their dogs Pink and Mr. Hazel.
CREATURE OF HABIT I generally start my Sundays early, by 6:30 or 7, and there are two good reasons for that.
One is because Im a creature of habit and thats when I get up every day.
The other reason is my boyfriend gets up at the same time.
He tries to get to the church for work by 8 or 9.
Photo NO DRAMA I work my way through coffee and The New York Times.
My particular obsession is the Real Estate section.
And then I get myself off to the gym, Crunch at Union Square.
I spend about an hour and a half there.
Ill run four or five miles on the treadmill I hate and I love it.
And I do a lot of stretching, which is in keeping with a lot of what I do on my Sundays because its meditative and somewhat nondramatic.
Its a great contrast to my day job, which is all about the drama.
PREACH Will is one of three pastors at First Presbyterian.
He preaches once every six to eight weeks, and I definitely go when hes preaching because hes extraordinary.
Im not a particularly religious person but I find the church a refreshing place to be, because something Ive discovered is that they weave together a really deep understanding of the liturgy into whats happening in the world now.
Going there can feel like a mini TED talk.
Photo PRESSING TO PODCASTS Then Ill come home.
I do our laundry and I press all our shirts.
I dont send the shirts out to the cleaners, because I used to run costume shops and I learned the tricks to pressing.
Its really easy.
Also theres something I love about it.
Ill put on a podcast, like Ear Hustle while Im doing it.
Its super-soothing.
Im stunned by the gorgeous humanity in these stories theyre telling.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story JUST ONE Will usually gets home and changes out of his priestly garb while Im ironing, and then well go to brunch.
There are a few spots we like, like Linen Hall on Third Avenue or Bar Primi.
Sometimes well drive out to Henry Public in Brooklyn Heights.
The food is amazing and its super quiet.
Will and I like to sit at the bar, because were both on the tall side.
Ill have a delicious, icy Bloody Mary.
Just one.
Henry Public has the best Bloody Mary.
Theres watercress pouring out of the top, and a pickle.
Photo WALK AND SHOP Its time to walk the dogs.
We spend some time trotting through the neighborhood.
We usually go past the theater.
Then we drop the dogs back home and well do a little shopping.
Im kind of furniture obsessed I feel like if I could change all my furniture every six months I would totally do it.
So well go to ABC Carpet & Home, and I love Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams and West Elm, the high and the low.
I love getting ideas just by walking around.
MOM Cooking is outside of my skill set, so well go to Bar Primi for dinner if we didnt go there for brunch, or Will will cook with ingredients he picked up from Agata & Valentina, a great little grocery store on University Place.
Then well watch a little TV and Ill call my mom.
She lives in Phoenix and she just got an iPhone, so weve been FaceTiming, which she totally loves.
Well talk about her Rachel Maddow obsession for 20 or 30 minutes.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Harvey Weinstein filed a lawsuit against The Weinstein Company on Thursday seeking access to his personnel file and email account.
In the suit, filed in Delaware, Weinstein said access to his emails will help him defend himself and the company from lawsuits after he was fired on Oct. 8 amid multiple accusations of sexual harassment and rape.
"Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account - which is the primary, if not only, account he used during the term of his employment by the Company - will contain information exonerating him, and therefore the Company, from claims that may be asserted against him or the Company," the suit states.
The suit also states that any "unjustified settlements or judgments" in present or future lawsuits will diminish his economic interest in the company as considers a sale in the wake of reports about his misconduct.
"In addition, press reports have indicated that the Board is exploring a sale of the Company," the suit states.
"If the Board agrees to sell the Company for less than it would be worth because of the threat of unsubstantiated or false allegations, Mr. Weinstein will receive less than he should have received as a Member."
Weinstein also seeks acces to his personnel file, which he believes has been leaked to the media.
"By obtaining his personnel file, Mr. Weinstein can confirm that the information being reported in the press could have come only from his personnel file, and then pursue potential claims against the Company and its Representatives or officers for mismanagement by leaking confidential Company information," his attorney said in the complaint.
A letter attached to the complaint noted the possibility that Weinstein may sue the company for wrongful termination.
Weinstein also requested the Delaware court expedite a hearing for his demands.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- South Korean boy band BTS is holding on to a spot on the Billboard 200.
The K-pop group's album Love Yourself 'Her' ranked No.
86 on the chart for the week of Nov. 4, according to the Billboard website.
Love Yourself 'Her' debuted at No.
7 on the Billboard 200 chart in September.
The Nov. 4 chart marks the fifth consecutive week the album has appeared on the list.
Love Yourself 'Her' is the highest-charting K-pop record to appear on the Billboard 200, which ranks popular albums based on sales and streaming.
BTS also held the previous record with its album Wings, which debuted at No.
26 in October 2016.
BTS announced this month that they will release their eighth Japanese single album in December.
The record will include Japanese versions of "DNA" and "MIC Drop," which appear on Love Yourself 'Her', along with the new song "Crystal Snow."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Netflix announced Thursday a Stranger Things aftershow titled Beyond Stranger Things that will launch alongside the upcoming second season of the supernatural series.
The show, hosted by writer, producer, actor and super fan Jam Rash, will analyze Season 2 episodes and feature stars from the series who will share behind-the-scene stories, noted The Hollywood Reporter.
Beyond Stranger Things will last for seven episodes with Netflix advising fans not to watch it until they finish Season 2 as key moments from the new season will be discussed.
The aftershow will begin on Oct. 27 -- the same day Stranger Things Season 2 premieres.
A trailer for Beyond Stranger Things features Rash sharing a roundtable with stars Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard, director Shawn Levy and creators Ross and Matt Duffer.
"Beyond Stranger Things tackles inspiration for the series, behind-the-scenes stories, and analyzes every aspect of the second season - answering all the burning questions," reads the synopsis.
Other Stranger Things stars that are set to appear on the aftershow include Sean Astin, Linnea Berthelsen, Natalia Dyer, Brett Gelman, David Harbour, Randy Havens, Charlie Heaton, Joe Keery, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, Dacre Montgomery, Paul Reiser, Noah Schnapp and Sadie Sink.
Stranger Things Season 2 premieres Friday on Netflix.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Mariah Carey is still wearing her engagement ring from former flame James Packer.
People reported Wednesday that the 48-year-old singer appeared to wear the $10 million ring to a V Magazine dinner honoring designer Karl Lagerfeld on Oct. 23.
Carey attended the event with her boyfriend, Bryan Tanaka, with whom she reconciled in the spring.
The ring was visible in a photo she shared on Instagram of herself and Takana at the dinner.
"@vmagazine," the star captioned the picture for her 6.1 million followers.
@vmagazine A post shared by Mariah Carey (@mariahcarey) on Oct 24, 2017 at 1:24am PDT Carey wore the ring out just days after The Australian published an interview with Packer where the businessman said it was "a mistake" to date her.
Packer said producer Brett Ratner introduced him to Carey during "a low point" in his personal life.
"She was kind, exciting and fun.
Mariah is a woman of substance.
She is very bright.
But it was a mistake for her and mistake for me," he said of their relationship.
Carey and Packer split in October 2016 after a nine-month engagement.
The singer was linked to Tanaka shortly after, and got back together with the dancer in May after reportedly breaking up in April.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Former MTV star Rachel Robinson is a married woman and a new mom.
The 34-year-old Road Rules and The Challenge alum wed Natalie Gee on Wednesday after giving birth to twin sons Oct. 17.
"I would like to introduce you to: Jesse & Jack Gee-Robinson," Robinson captioned a photo on Instagram of herself with Gee and their boys.
"The world is brighter, this life has more meaning, oh & we got married today - please refer to @natgeebeauty as my wife.
Thanks #GeeRobinson," she added.
Gee had announced the twins' birth in a post on her own account Oct. 18.
The pair were born at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach, Fla. "Please meet our sons, the Gee-Robinson Boys.
There are absolutely no words to describe - they have made us the happiest family," the fitness instructor gushed.
"We cannot wait to surround them with the love, we know you all will share.
Born 10.17.17 #GeeRobinsonBoys."
Gee said Thursday that she's back at work after spending a week with Robinson and their sons.
"Thank you to Rachel, Jack & Jesse for the greatest week of my life," she captioned a picture with her family.
"Today, I am back at @geebeautystudio Miami, ready, excited and happy.
Come see me!
#geebeauty."
Robinson came to fame on Road Rules, and has appeared on several seasons of The Challenge since, winning The Duel II and The Gauntlet.
She most recently competed on Battle of the Exes, which aired in 2012.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Selena Gomez is set to take the stage at the upcoming American Music Awards ceremony where she will be performing her song "Wolves."
The event's official Twitter page posted the announcement Thursday alongside colorful promotional art for the performance that detailed how the AMA Awards will mark Gomez's television premiere of "Wolves."
The performance will be Gomez's third time performing at the AMAs where past events included the pop star singing "The Heart Wants What It Wants" in 2014 and "Same Old Love" in 2015.
In 2016, Gomez was awarded the Favorite Female Artist-Pop/Rock award at the AMAs.
"Wolves" which was made in collaboration with producer Marshmello, is Gomez's third electronic dance music track following "I Want You to Know" in 2015 and "It Ain't Me" in 2017.
The American Music Awards will be airing live from the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles on Nov. 19 at 8 p.m.
ET on ABC.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Sean Hayes was rushed to the hospital this month after his "small intestine burst open."
The 47-year-old actor said on Wednesday's episode of The Ellen DeGeneres Show that he had emergency surgery after experiencing "excruciating pain" in his abdomen.
"I went to bed at night and all of the sudden I felt this excruciating pain in my stomach, so I went to the ER," Hayes recounted.
"Thank God I did.
I had a very rare thing where my small intestine burst open and it was poisoning my body."
"They went in there and they clipped off the bad part and put it back together," he said of the procedure.
"Two, three weeks ago, maybe.
Isn't it amazing?
They go right in your stomach ... through your belly button."
Hayes was supposed to appear on The Ellen DeGeneres Show earlier this month, but postponed his visit due to the surgery.
He met the cast of the Netflix series Stranger Things while filming his Ellen episode Wednesday.
"Hanging with the AHmazing cast of @strangerthingstv backstage at @theellenshow today.
@finnwolfhardofficial @gatenm123 @therealcalebmclaughlin @noahschnapp," he captioned a photo of himself with the actors.
Hanging with the AHmazing cast of @strangerthingstv backstage at @theellenshow today.
@finnwolfhardofficial @gatenm123 @therealcalebmclaughlin @noahschnapp A post shared by Sean Hayes (@seanhayes) on Oct 25, 2017 at 9:08am PDT Hayes plays Jack McFarland on the NBC series Will & Grace, which was revived in January for a ninth season that premiered in September.
He told DeGeneres it's "great" to be working again with the same cast and crew.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- The season finale of Total Bellas Wednesday gave fans a behind-the-scenes look at John Cena's proposal to Nikki Bella at WrestleMania 33.
Cameras caught the WWE couple backstage following Cena's romantic moment when he got down on one knee in the middle of the ring and asked for Bella's hand in marriage in front of a packed stadium and many more watching at home.
The moment backstage featured Bella being congratulated by her friends and fellow Total Divas stars Renee Young and Natalya and speaking with Cena about the proposal.
"You said yes, you can't back out now," Cena says to Bella as they share a kiss.
"We have waited so long to get to this moment, I don't care if you want to do it tomorrow," he continued about getting married.
Recently, Brie Bella announced on The Bella Twins official YouTube page, that she will be her sister's maid of honor at the wedding that is set to take place sometime next year.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Ryan Murphy has assembled the largest-ever cast of transgender actors for his series Pose.
The Hollywood Reporter stated the new FX drama will star five transgender actors, including MJ Rodriguez and Indya Moore, meaning the show will have the largest cast of transgender actors in series regular roles for a scripted series.
Rodriguez, Moore, Dominique Jackson, Hailie Sahar and Angelica Ross were cast after a six-month search, according to Deadline.
Additional casting includes Ryan Jamaal Swain, Billy Porter and Dyllon Burnside.
Pose examines "the juxtaposition of several segments of life and society in New York" in the 1980s.
Rodriguez, Moore, Jackson, Sahar and Ross will play the transgender characters Blanca, Angel, Elektra, Lulu and Candy, respectively.
"We are thrilled that Pose pushes the narrative forward by centering on the unique and under-told experiences of trans women and gay people of color," series co-creator Steven Canals said.
"Ryan has assembled a strong team of storytellers and innovators to collaborate on telling this important narrative," he added.
"As a Bronx-bred queer writer of color, I'm honored to aid in ushering this groundbreaking show into homes."
Murphy and Canals co-created the show with Murphy's frequent collaborator Brad Falchuk.
Murphy and Falchuk are also known for the series Glee, American Horror Story and American Crime Story.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Dolly Parton and Kenny Rogers say they never dated because they were like family.
The 71-year-old singer and 79-year-old country star discussed their longtime friendship on Wednesday's episode of Today prior to performing at Rogers' final concert in Nashville.
"First of all, she's hard to look at for me," Rogers joked.
"I'm not his type," Parton said.
Parton and Rogers' close relationship contributed to such hits as "Islands in the Stream," "Love is Strange" and "Real Love," but the pair remained platonic.
"I'm a believer that tension is better if you keep it than if you satisfy it," Rogers explained.
"And then secondly, she said no to me."
"Nah.
You know what, we were almost like brother and sister," Parton said.
"And it would almost be like incest.
So we just never went there."
Parton joined Rogers Wednesday evening at Bridgestone Arena for his Nashville show.
Billboard reported the pair performed "You Can't Make Old Friends" and "Islands in the Stream," with Parton also surprising Rogers with a version of "I Will Always Love You."
"I couldn't be any happier to be tagged with someone like Kenny," the singer said.
"He's a wonderful man, a wonderful singer and a wonderful duet partner.
My heart will always be with Kenny.
We're still going to be buddies."
Rogers will complete his All In for the Gambler farewell tour before retiring from live shows after six decades of performing.
He previously told Rolling Stone Country he is grateful for his and Parton's success.
"Neither of us take ourselves for granted, and we're both kind of astonished as to what's happened with our lives and careers," the star said.
"We're both very appreciative of it."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Corey Feldman has launched an Indiegogo campaign to raise money to produce a film that he says will expose the pedophilia found in Hollywood.
Feldman, who wrote in his 2013 memoir Coreyography that he was sexually abused and molested alongside his friend Corey Haim as children by predators in the entertainment industry, has gained extra attention in recent weeks as women continue to raise claims of sexual harassment and abuse against film producer Harvey Weinstein.
The actor has faced pressure on social media to release the names of those who allegedly molested him, leading Feldman to announce his plans to make the film that will be the "most honest and true depiction of child abuse every portrayed."
"People have long awaited a response from Corey as to what exactly happened in his childhood alongside best friend Corey Haim.
In his book, Coreyography, Corey describes what happened but it isn't clear who exactly the predators are.
The best way, he feels, in order to tell the whole story, is for Corey to come forward in the form of a film about his life.
We are embarking on a dangerous and exciting journey to get to the bottom of the truth.
However in doing so there are great security risks," reads the description of the Indiegogo campaign created by his wife Courtney Mitchell that is asking for $10 million to make the film.
So far, over $95,000 has been raised.
"I told everybody a few days ago that I had a plan to try and hopefully bring to light what is happening in the world of entertainment as far as perverts and pedophiles and all the topics of what we've been discussing," the Goonies and Stand by Me star in a video promoting the project.
"Right off the bat, I can name six names - one of them who is still very powerful today," he continues.
"And a story that links all the way up to a studio.
It connects pedophilia to one of the major studios."
Feldman also states in the video how he feels he has put his life at risk since announcing the project and cites how he underwent a "near-death experience" recently when two trucks came speeding at him on a crosswalk.
On Saturday, Feldman was charged with misdemeanor possession of marijuana, driving under suspension and speeding when his tour bus was pulled over for exceeding the speed limit.
On Twitter, Feldman posted a rant saying he was not arrested or jailed, claiming the timing of the incident was "ironic."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Ashley Judd is opening up about her encounter with disgraced producer Harvey Weinstein.
The 49-year-old actress said in an interview with ABC News that Weinstein "ignored" her protests when he allegedly sexually harassed her in a hotel room during her early career.
Judd was filming the movie Kiss the Girls when Weinstein invited her to a Beverly Hills hotel for "a business appointment."
She said the producer asked to give her a massage once she was in the room, then asked for her to give him one.
"I thought no meant no," the star told Diane Sawyer.
"I fought with this volley of nos, which he ignored.
Who knows, maybe he heard them as 'maybe.'
Maybe he heard them as 'yeses.'
Maybe they turned him on."
Judd said Weinstein also asked her to watch him take a shower, and that she ultimately offered the producer a deal in order to escape his advances.
"He kept coming back at me with all this other stuff," the actress said.
"And finally I just said, 'When I win an Oscar in one of your movies, OK?'
And he was like, 'Yeah, when you get nominated.'
I said, "No, when I win an Oscar.'
And then I just fled."
.
@AshleyJudd on Harvey Weinstein encounter: If I could go back retrospectively with a magic wand...I wish I could prevent it for anyone.
pic.twitter.com/1NbOgJELeM Good Morning America (@GMA) October 26, 2017 Judd said she recounted part of her experience to her mom, singer Naomi Judd, who recently encouraged her to come forward.
Judd went public in a New York Times report published Oct. 5 detailing multiple instances of Weinstein's alleged abuse and harassment.
"What I'd say to Harvey is I love you and I understand that you're sick... there's help for a guy like you," the actress told Sawyer.
Judd thanked fans for their support Thursday on Twitter, saying coming forward was "the right thing to do."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Hilary Duff has rekindled her romance with boyfriend Matthew Koma.
The 30-year-old actress smooched Koma on the cheek during a date night Tuesday after getting back together with the singer, also 30.
Duff posted a clip on Instagram that shows her smiling at Koma as he turns his head to display his cheek.
The singer's cheek sports a lipstick print in Duff's cherry red shade.
"[They] can't get enough of each other," a source told E!
News.
"They've been spending almost their entire weekends together.
Hilary loves how effortless it is with him and that they always have a good time no matter what they're doing."
"Him being gone on tour was the main reason things didn't work out the first time around, so now that he's back, they picked up right where they left off," the insider added.
.
.
A post shared by Hilary Duff (@hilaryduff) on Oct 24, 2017 at 9:24pm PDT Duff and Koma split in March after a few months of dating.
The actress subsequently started seeing SOLr Energy Consulting CEO Ely Sandvik, but reconnected with Koma after he returned from his tour, according to People.
"Her and Ely's split is very recent," a source said.
"Her friends and family really adore Matthew.
Hilary also wants to get in the studio with Mathew and they have had a working relationship."
Duff last released the album Breathe In.
Breathe Out.
in 2015, and presently stars on the TV Land series Younger.
Koma released the single "Dear Ana" featuring Jai Wolf this year ahead of a new album.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Ne-Yo is "happy" to be expecting his second child with wife Crystal Smith.
The 38-year-old singer, born Shaffer Smith, announced in an Instagram post Wednesday that Smith is pregnant with another son or daughter.
"Sooooooo..... guess who's awaiting a NEW ARRIVAL!?
@itscrystalsmith and yours truly are happy to announce we are expecting!
#NewAddition #ExtendingTheFamily," he wrote.
Ne-Yo already shares 19-month-old son Shaffer Jr. with Smith, and is also dad to 6-year-old son Mason and 6-year-old daughter Madilyn with ex-partner Monyetta Shaw.
Smith also shared the news on her own account.
"We didn't plan for you but you are Gods plan and I thank you for choosing us to be your parents!
Impatiently awaiting our newest addition," she wrote.
"WE'RE PREGNANT!!!
@neyo (I think he did it on purpose) joking!
LOL #ThePlatinumLife #ThePlatinumFamily."
We didn't plan for you but you are Gods plan and I thank you for choosing us to be your parents!
Impatiently awaiting our newest addition WE'RE PREGNANT!!!
@neyo (I think he did it on purpose )joking!
LOL #ThePlatinumLife #ThePlatinumFamily A post shared by Crystal Smith (@itscrystalsmith) on Oct 25, 2017 at 9:34am PDT Smith said in an interview with E!
News that she and Ne-Yo have yet to learn the sex of their child, but are "all set" on baby names.
"We are so excited!"
she gushed.
"This definitely wasn't in the plan and we weren't trying at all!"
Ne-Yo and Smith married in February 2016 outside Los Angeles.
The couple and their family appear on the new E!
series The Platinum Life, which airs Sundays.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Emma Stone is reportedly dating Saturday Night Live writer Dave McCary.
The 28-year-old actress has been seeing the 32-year-old writer and director for "at least three months," according to People.
Stone and McCary first met last year when the actress hosted the Dec. 3 episode of SNL.
She starred in the sketch "Wells for Boys," which McCary directed.
Stone also appeared as a surprise guest last month on the Sept. 30 episode of SNL, which was hosted by her La La Land co-star Ryan Gosling.
Page Six reported she attended the after-party at Tao.
Stone previously dated her Amazing Spider-Man co-star Andrew Garfield, from whom she split in 2015 after four years together.
People reported in August the pair remain friendly and supportive of one another.
"They never stopped caring about each other," a source told the magazine.
"Even when they split, Emma and Andrew had great love and respect for each other."
"They care about each other and encourage the other's career," the insider added.
"They're great friends."
Stone will next star in The Favourite with Joe Alwyn and Rachel Weisz.
McCary joined SNL in 2014, and is also known for directing the movie Brigsby Bear, which opened in limited release in July.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- WWE power couple Triple H and Stephanie McMahon celebrated their 14th wedding anniversary Wednesday on Twitter.
"#HappyAnniversary to the man of my dreams, the father of my children, and my best friend.
Now, about that twerking...," McMahon wrote alongside a selfie of herself and Triple H enjoying some time outside.
McMahon was referring to a fan video that recently surfaced of Triple H dancing in the middle of the ring with tag team The New Day.
"14 years and it still gets better* every day!!!!
Happy Anniversary Baby!
@StephMcMahon," Triple H shared alongside a similar looking selfie with his wife.
#HappyAnniversary to the man of my dreams, the father of my children, and my best friend.
Now, about that twerking... pic.twitter.com/D2zo4bGabF Stephanie McMahon (@StephMcMahon) October 25, 2017 "*HHH now with all new twerking action!"
he added.
14 years and it still gets better* every day!!!!
Happy Anniversary Baby!
@StephMcMahon *HHH now with all new twerking action!
pic.twitter.com/kloMQJrGqb Triple H (@TripleH) October 25, 2017 In celebration of the pair's anniversary, WWE released a photo collection featuring Triple H and Stephanie throughout their time together in the company including their title runs with the WWE and Women's Championships and time spent more recently as The Authority in charge of both Raw and Smackdown.
Triple H and McMahon, who portray on-screen characters on WWE programming, serve as the COO and chief brand officer for the company respectively.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Vin Diesel announced on social media Wednesday that the next installment in the Fast and Furious franchise will bring back star Jordana Brewster and director Justin Lin.
Diesel reunited with the pair while visiting a "kick-ass set" for Fast and Furious 9.
"On the road back to our roots...Family reunited!"
the actor captioned a selfie of himself on Instagram with Brewster and Lin.
Diesel went into further detail about meeting up with Lin and Brewster and how they will be used to make the upcoming sequel special in a Facebook Live video.
"Justin Lin is so old school, he's so part of the DNA of the Fast mythology, that while we're on set today, the one person he wanted to be here immediately, just as he started to feel that sense of Dom, that sense of Toretto, that sense of the Fast and Furious universe and the responsibility of that... he wanted someone who is a part of the brotherhood, when you go past gender.
He wanted someone very important to be here, and it's someone you all have been asking for," Diesel says in the video before panning over to Brewster.
On the road back to our roots... Family reunited!
A post shared by Vin Diesel (@vindiesel) on Oct 25, 2017 at 3:48pm PDT Brewster, who has portrayed Diesel's sister throughout the series, was not featured in 2017's Fate of the Furious as her character Mia Torretto was last seen settling down with the late Paul Walker's character in Furious 7.
Lin, meanwhile, whom Diesel referred to as the "forefather" and "architect" of the series, previously helmed the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth installments.
"You wanted 9 and 10 to be incredible.
We've heard your concerns about the saga and where it needs to arrive in its final chapters," Diesel continued, hinting that Brewster and Lin may also be a part of Fast and Furious 10 which is expected to wrap up the long-running action series.
Fast and Furious 9 is expected to arrive in theaters on April 10, 2020 after it was delayed from its original April 19, 2019 release date.
Franchise star Tyrese Gibson has blamed his co-star Dwayne Johnson for the delay as the former WWE Superstar is headlining a spinoff film alongside Jason Statham.
Notably, Brewster's inclusion in Fast and Furious 9 fits within the demands of series star Michelle Rodriguez who threatened to leave the franchise in June due to not showing enough "love" to female stars.
"F8 is out digitally today, I hope they decide to show some love to the women of the franchise on the next one.
Or I just might have to say goodbye to a loved franchise," she wrote at the time.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Warner Bros. is developing a film based on DC Comics villain Deathstroke that is expected to star Joe Manganiello.
The project will work as a starring vehicle for Manganiello who was first cast as the deadly assassin in September 2016 as the main villain in Ben Affleck's solo Batman film, noted The Hollywood Reporter.
Manganiello's role in Affleck's project has been up in the air, however, after the actor and filmmaker stepped down from directing The Batman.
Matt Reeves (War for the Planet of the Apes) is now directing the Batman film.
Filmmaker Gareth Evans who is best known for helming acclaimed action films The Raid and The Raid 2, is in early talks to write and direct the Deathstroke project, reported Entertainment Weekly.
The Deathstroke project is the latest DC Comics film in development that is based on a villain alongside a sequel to Suicide Squad, a Joker and Harley Quinn movie starring Jared Leto and Margot Robbie, Gotham City Sirens that would focus on Quinn, Catwoman and Poison Ivy, and a Joker origin film that takes place outside the DC extended universe.
Deathstroke, aka Slade Wilson, also nicknamed The Terminator, was created by Marv Wolfman and George Perez in 1980.
Known for taking on the Teen Titans and hunting down heroes for the right price, Deathstroke possesses incredible strength, reflexes, a brilliant tactical mind and the ability to regenerate.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Jessica Alba unveiled on Instagram Wednesday the sex of her upcoming third child with husband Cash Warren.
The actress made the announcement by sharing a short video of her self and her two daughters, Honor Marie, 9, and Haven Garner, 6, opening up a box filed with bright blue balloons and confetti signaling that her next child will be a boy.
"@cash_warren and I couldn't be more thrilled to announce... #officiallyoutnumbered #babyboy #cantwaittospoilhim #hugsandkissesforlife #soontobemamaofthree," Alba captioned the clip.
Alba announced in July that she was pregnant with her third child while in vacation in Hawaii.
Alba, 36, and Warren, 38, tied the knot in 2008.
@cash_warren and I couldnt be more thrilled to announce... #officiallyoutnumbered #babyboy #cantwaittospoilhim #hugsandkissesforlife #soontobemamaofthree A post shared by Jessica Alba (@jessicaalba) on Oct 25, 2017 at 3:16pm PDT The Honest Company founder celebrated daughter Honor's 9th birthday by sharing a loving message to her on Instagram.
"I'm so proud of how compassionate, intelligent and thoughtful you are.
The day you were born, I found my true calling in life.
You turned my life and world right side up," she wrote at the time.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Celebrity chef Cat Cora filed a lawsuit against her own restaurant this month because it has damaged her reputation.
According to the lawsuit, the Iron Chef and Around the World in 80 Plates star partnered with Manhattan's Fatbird Restaurant to allow the eatery to "use her name, image and likeness" in exchange for $400,000 and a 10 percent equity interest, DNA Info reported.
But Cora said the restaurant hasn't made defaulted on payments and "repudiated its agreement to make future payments."
That's not all.
The lawsuit also states that Fatbird Restaurant has been operating "in a substandard manner, but Cora has received the brunt of the blame for the restaurant's lackluster performance, which has caused and continues to cause irreparable injury to Cora's brand, good will and reputation as a world class chef and restaurateur."
Cora's attorney, Terrence A. Oved, told the New York Post that his client put "significant amount of time, effort, energy and expense on this project."
"This suit seeks to recover for her what she was promised," Oved said.
Fatbird currently has an average 3.5 star review on Yelp.
Although most reviews were positive, one reviewer said Fatbird's ribs were, "like they took ribs, boil them for three minutes and put them in a box.
Absolutely no flavor and tough as hell.
I live two blocks from the place and will never ever go back."
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Those born on this date are under the sign of Scorpio.
They include: -- Cereal foods entrepreneur C. W. Post in 1854 -- Baseball Hall of Fame member Judy Johnson in 1900 -- Boxing champion Primo Carnera in 1906 -- Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the last shah of Iran, in 1919 -- Actor Bob Hoskins in 1942 -- Author Pat Conroy in 1945 -- TV personality Pat Sajak in 1946 (age 71) -- Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 1947 (age 70) -- Actor Jaclyn Smith in 1945 (age 72) -- Rock musician Keith Strickland in 1953 (age 64) -- Actor James Pickens Jr. in 1954 (age 63) -- Bolivian President Evo Morales in 1959 (age 58) -- Actor Dylan McDermott in 1961 (age 56) -- Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta in 1961 (age 56) -- Actor Cary Elwes in 1962 (age 55) -- Actor Tom Cavanagh in 1963 (age 54) -- Singer Natalie Merchant in 1963 (age 54) -- Country singer Keith Urban in 1967 (age 50) -- Actor Seth MacFarlane in 1973 (age 44) -- Actor Jon Heder in 1977 (age 40) -- Wrestler CM Punk, born Phillip Jack Brooks, in 1978 (age 39)
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- South Korean celebrity couple Rain and Kim Tae-Hee have welcomed a baby girl.
The 35-year-old K-pop star announced in an Instagram post Tuesday that Kim recently gave birth to a daughter.
"Thank you...
It's a beautiful princess.
I will raise her to become a person who can contribute to the world," the singer, born Jung Ji-hoon, captioned a photo of a pair of tiny socks.
Rain's agency said Kim and her daughter are both "healthy and well," but declined to share the infant's birth date, according to The Korea Herald.
The recording artist was absent from a press meeting for the KBS series The Unit on Wednesday.
Rain and Kim married in January, and announced in May that the actress was 15 weeks pregnant.
The singer last released the album Rain Effect in January 2014, while Kim last appeared on the SBS series Yong-pal.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Celebrity sisters Kylie Jenner and Khloe Kardashian joked about having "so many babies" in a new video.
Jenner, 20, and Kardashian, 33, appeared together in a Kylie Cosmetics promo Tuesday amid rumors they're pregnant and expecting with Travis Scott and Tristan Thompson, respectively.
The video shows the Keeping Up with the Kardashians stars apply makeup from the Kylie Cosmetics "In Love with the KoKo" collection, including one of their matte liquid lipsticks.
"We created them," Kardashian said of the products.
"It's our baby together.
We have eight!"
"We have so many babies," Jenner added.
"Who knew?"
TMZ reported Sept. 22 that Jenner and Scott are expecting their first child.
Sources told People the reality star is "thrilled" to be expecting a daughter in February.
"It is an unexpected but completely amazing turn of events that she could not be more excited or thrilled about," an insider said.
"Everyone is overjoyed for her.
This is the happiest she's ever been."
People confirmed Sept. 26 that Kardashian is also expecting with Thompson.
"Yes, Khloe and Tristan are expecting and they are absolutely thrilled," a source said.
In addition, Jenner and Kardashian's sister Kim Kardashian is expecting her third child, via surrogate, with husband Kanye West.
Keeping Up with the Kardashians is in its 14th season and airs Sundays on E!.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Anna Faris says she was hurt by Chris Pratt and Jennifer Lawrence cheating rumors.
The 40-year-old actress confessed in her memoir, Unqualified, which was published Tuesday following her split from Pratt, that she "couldn't" ignore reports about the actor and Lawrence, who co-starred in Passengers.
"Before they met in person, my publicist, out of the blue, pulled me aside," Faris recounted in the book.
"'Anna, listen there are going to be paparazzi all over them,' she said.
'There are going to be shots of them laughing together on their way to set.
There are going to be stories circulating, and you have to brace yourself for this.'"
"Jennifer and I are really friendly, and she was apologetic even though she didn't need to be because she hadn't done anything wrong," she added, according to Us Weekly.
Faris said the speculation about Pratt and Lawrence was "totally hurtful" and left her "insecure," despite her relationship with the younger actress.
She tried to ignore the rumors but admitted, "I couldn't block them out, either."
"It's hurtful and embarrassing ... even if it's patently untrue ... you still feel and, look like a fool," the star explained, according to Today.
Faris and Pratt, who share 5-year-old son Jack, announced their separation in August after eight years of marriage.
The actress previously confessed on her Anna Faris is Unqualified podcast that the reports about Pratt and Lawrence bothered her.
"In this crazy world where he's off doing movies and I'm in L.A. raising our child, of course I'm going to feel vulnerable, like any normal human would," she said in December.
"It made me feel incredibly insecure."
Faris has since been linked to cinematographer Michael Barrett, whom she reportedly met on the set of Overboard.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- The Country Music Association has announced their collaboration lineup for the 51st annual CMA Awards ceremony that takes place on Nov. 8.
The list of artists who will be performing together includes Reba McEntire paired with Kelsea Ballerini, Dierks Bentley with Rascal Flatts, Brad Paisley joining Kane Brown and Maren Morris teaming up with Niall Horan.
McEntire and Ballerini are both nominated for Female Vocalist of the Year while Bentley is nominated for Male Vocalist of the Year with Rascal Flatts being nominated for Vocal Group of the Year.
Horan has worked with Morris before, featuring the singer on his single "Going Blind" which is available on his debut solo album, Flicker.
Miranda Lambert, Garth Brooks, Carrie Underwood, Little Big Town, Luke Bryan, Alan Jackson, Brothers Osborne, Eric Church, Jon Pardi, Old Dominion, Chris Stapleton and Thomas Rhett will also be taking the stage at the event in addition to the collaboration performances.
Paisley, who is set to perform "Heaven South" with Brown, will also be hosting the show alongside Underwood for their 10th consecutive year.
LONDON (Reuters) - Paisley, pop hits and of course purple are coming to Londons O2 arena in a new exhibition of personal memorabilia of the late singer Prince.
My Name is Prince, features over 200 items including customized guitars, award statuettes, notepads of handwritten lyrics and elaborate costumes that featured in his music videos and feature films.
The singer died of an accidental drug overdose in 2016.
But organizers said he had a played a role in laying the foundations of the exhibition.
Prince started planning back in the early 2000s to open Paisley Park up for tours literally writing the first script, said Angie Marchese, director of archives at the singers Paisley Park compound in Minnesota.
In addition to showcasing the highlights of Princes career, Marchese said that organizers hoped to give visitors a glimpse of the famously reclusive singers private side.
Who he was as the friend, the bandmate, the brother.
We hope to kind of tell a little bit of that story as well, she said.
Curator Sarah Bitler adjusts a costume on display at the "My Name Is Prince" exhibition, World Premiere at the O2, London, Britain October 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls Among the highlights of the items on display are the purple suit that the singer wore on the cover of the Purple Rain album, his famous cloud guitar and a large collection of high-heeled shoes.
The exhibition is being held in a venue closely associated with the singer - Londons O2.
In 2007, he performed a 21-night residency in the arena, playing to 450,000 fans.
Slideshow (11 Images) It has the blessing of Princes surviving relatives, though for sister Tyka Nelson, visiting was an emotional experience.
I didnt make it 10-15 steps before I started crying and had to go back out, she said of her first entrance into the exhibition.
It was hard.
Prince sold over 100 million records during a 40-year career.
He won seven Grammy awards, and an Oscar for the score of his 1984 film Purple Rain.
The exhibition runs until January 7, 2018.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Strapped for cash in a Tokyo hotel, Albert Einstein wrote his take on life on a note and handed it to the bellboy instead of a tip.
The physicists formula for happy living fetched $1.3 million on Tuesday, a Jerusalem auction house said.
In 1922, Einstein was en route to Japan when the announcement came he would be awarded the 1921 Nobel prize in physics, Winners Auctions and Exhibitions said.
Upon his arrival in Tokyo, he holed up in his hotel room trying to put his thoughts to paper.
When an attendant came to his room to make a delivery, Einstein found himself without any money for a tip.
Instead, he handed him a signed note with one sentence, written in German: A calm and humble life will bring more happiness than the pursuit of success and the constant restlessness that comes with it.
According to the auction house, Einstein advised the bellboy to keep the note, saying that some day its value will surpass the amount of a standard tip.
Almost a 100 years later, Einstein was proven right after the bellboys nephew contacted the auction house to put the note up for sale.
The identity of the online buyer has not been revealed.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - George W. Bush famously turned to portrait painting as a hobby when he left office.
Could President Donald Trump one day follow in his footsteps, encouraged by the recent sale of his drawing of New York Citys Empire State Building for $16,000?
President Donald Trump's black marker drawing on paper of the Empire State building made in the 1990's sold for$16 000 at Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles, California, U.S on October 19, 2017 is seen in this photo released October 23, 2017.
Julien's Auctions/Handout via REUTERS It is not the first time a Trump doodle sold for a serious sum: A 2005 sketch of the New York skyline - with Trump Tower at the center - sold for more than $29,000 in July.
The latest drawing sold last week at Juliens Auctions in Los Angeles to another prominent New York developer, Elie Hirschfeld, the auction house said.
The picture, which carries Trumps signature, dates to 1995 when Trump owned a stake in the iconic 102-story Empire State in midtown Manhattan and was locked in a lease dispute.
Trump accused the occupants of allowing rats to infest the skyscraper and unsuccessfully sued to try to force them out.
He eventually sold his interest in the building in 2002.
Trump sketched the skyscraper at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida for a charity auction, where it sold for less than $100.
The original buyer, whom the auction house did not identify, has kept the drawing until now.
Hirschfeld, whose company owns more than 1 million square feet of commercial space and more than 1,000 residential units, also recently bought Andy Warhols 1981 pencil drawing of Trump Tower.
The Warhol and Trump pieces are unique and iconic depictions of New York City that will make perfect additions to the Hirschfeld Art collection, Hirschfeld said in a statement.
Hirschfeld and Trump partnered on various development projects in the past, including the large residential towers known as Trump Place along the Hudson River on Manhattans West Side.
(This version of the story corrects para 2 to say first auction was held in Freetown, not New York.)
A 709-carat diamond, found in Sierra Leone and known as the "Peace Diamond", is displayed during a tour ahead of its auction, at Israel's Diamond Exchange, in Ramat Gan, Israel October 19, 2017.
Picture taken October 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Nir Elias Ramat Gan, ISRAEL (Reuters) - Sierra Leone hopes to raise millions of dollars for development projects by auctioning a huge uncut diamond, believed to be one of the worlds largest, in New York in December.
It will be the governments second attempt to sell the 709-carat gem, known as the Peace Diamond, after it rejected the highest bid of $7.8 million at an initial auction in Sierra Leones capital Freetown in May.
Over half of the proceeds from the sale will be used to fund clean water, electricity, education and health projects in Sierra Leone, and particularly in the village of Koryardu, in the Kono region in eastern Sierra Leone, where the diamond was discovered.
Theres a reason God gave these diamonds to the poorest people in the world and made the richest people want them.
This is Tikun Olam (Hebrew for correcting the world), this is making the world a better place, Martin Rapaport, chairman of Rapaport Group, a network of diamond companies which will manage the auction, told Reuters.
The diamond, which the auctioneers described as the 14th largest in the world, was unearthed in Koryardu in March by a Christian pastor who gave it to the government.
Diamonds fueled a decade-long civil war in Sierra Leone, ending in 2002, in which rebels forced civilians to mine the stones and bought weapons with the proceeds, leading to the term blood diamonds.
(This version of the October 22 story corrects ages of director and writer) Actors perform during a rehearsal of the play called "While I Was Waiting", at Dawar al-Shams theatre in Beirut, Lebanon October 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Jamal Saidi By Ayat Basma BEIRUT (Reuters) - A play about Syrias war, told through one familys tragedy, made its Lebanon debut on Friday, the closest it will ever get to being staged on home soil, its Syrian director said.
It would be impossible to perform it in Syria.
There are red lines, and the censorship that was there before 2011 is still there today, said Omar Abu Saada, one of the countrys best-known theater directors.
The play - called While I Was Waiting - is based on the real-life story of a young man found beaten unconscious near a hospital in Damascus in 2013, but the circumstances of his beating and subsequent death remained unclear.
Abu Saada knew the man and his family.
When I thought about working on a new project, this was the story that came to my mind.
It pretty much imposed itself, he said.
In the play, the man oscillates between life and death and the lack of answers unnerves his family.
His suspended state is a metaphor for the state of waiting that all Syrians share, whether inside the country or abroad and regardless of their political views, the director said.
Another thing all Syrians share is loss, he added.
The Syrian conflict, which began with a popular uprising against the state, has raged on into its seventh year.
The war has killed hundreds of thousands of people, made more than half of Syrians homeless, and created the worlds worst refugee crisis.
Syrians today are not in a single place, they are suspended.
Waiting is something that we all have in common, Abu Saada, 40, said.
Most people lost someone close, either by death, emigration or imprisonment.
Everyone lost something.
This has changed the way Syrians think, their social fabric and even they way they make art, he said.
Actors perform during a rehearsal of the play called "While I Was Waiting", at Dawar al-Shams theatre in Beirut, Lebanon October 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Jamal Saidi The play charts the disenchantment of young Taym, the comatose patient, from his hope for change at the start of the 2011 uprising to his despair as it spiraled into a war.
Syrias young generation, active in organizing and documenting the mass protests, lost the most in the violent turn of events, he said.
The state of coma is more of a metaphor for the lack of power to change things, Abu Saada said.
The play made its debut in Brussels in 2016 and has since been staged in France, the United States and Japan among other places.
The six cast members said they could not meet anywhere in the Arab world for rehearsals because of visa restrictions.
Slideshow (2 Images) So in the end, we rehearsed in France which under normal circumstances would have been the harder place to go to, said Nanda Mohamed, a Syrian actress.
The writer, who has previously lived in Lebanon, had to leave Beirut in 2015 when the Lebanese government imposed stricter conditions on Syrians in the country.
But he said being forced to leave Lebanon helped him view the war differently.
Sometimes the geographical distance helps create the gap for critical thinking and I tried to take advantage of that, said Mohamed al-Attar, 37.
What happened to us was tragic but what would be more tragic is if we couldnt review things.
It would be disastrous if after the heavy price we paid and we continue to pay that we also do not have the courage to think about what we lost and boldly criticize it, Attar said.
Attar previously worked in Beirut with director Abu Saada on an adaptation of the Greek myth Antigone performed by an all-female cast of Syrian refugees.
Both agree the play is about fuelling debate about a war that is not yet over.
The idea of creating a play about something that you are living in the middle of and still being affected by and probably have not yet processed is difficult, Abu Saada said.
But I know that there is no running away from it.
HAVANA (Reuters) - A play parodying the lengths some Cubans will go to in order to earn a few tourist dollars set against the backdrop of socially critical graffiti is adding punch to Havanas annual theater festival.
Public wait for the beginning of the spectacle "Guan meln!, tu meln!"
beside a paint of Cuban street artist Yulier Rodriguez in a theatre in Havana, Cuba, October 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Alexandre Meneghini The first-time collaboration between veteran theater director Nelda Castillo, 64, and street artist Yulier Rodriguez, 27, underscores unease among some Cubans with the recent influx of tourists on the cash-strapped, Communist-run island.
The interdisciplinary spectacle, Guan meln!, tu meln!, is also an example of the innovative ways Cubans are pushing the boundaries of critical expression.
Rodriguezs eerie murals of creatures that look malnourished and malformed had become ubiquitous throughout Havana over the last three years, reflecting his view of the dark path upon which society was.
But the artist said authorities detained him for two days in August and ordered him to stop painting in public spaces.
Graffiti is seen as vandalism in many countries, although Rodriguez suspects authorities stopped him more because they did not like the content of his work.
Now I am limited in what I can do in the streets, any space where I can exhibit my work becomes a space of resistance for me, said Rodriguez.
Castillo, who often collaborates with visual artists, said she invited Rodriguez to paint the walls of the renowned El Ciervo Encantado theater because she knew his graffiti would enrich her play.
Theatre director Nelda Castillo speaks to actors (not pictured) after the play "Guan meln!, tu meln!"
beside a paint of Cuban street artist Yulier Rodriguez in a theatre in Havana, Cuba, October 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Alexandre Meneghini The piece is about the Cubans struggle in the street in the context of the new relations with the United States and the influx of American visitors, she said.
His work is also about that struggle in the street.
In the play that was first staged last year, a skinny and squat comic duo attempt frantically to entertain tourists arriving on cruise ships with Cuban tunes and to sell them outsized cigars and paper cones of peanuts.
Slideshow (5 Images) A student with a manic fake smile, rudimentary English and a hypersexualised walk sells chocolate and offers salsa lessons, city tours and cabaret acts as way to make ends meet.
In a beleaguered economy which shrank last year and where the average state salary is $30 a month, the tourist sector is a relative gold mine.
Castillo said Rodriguezs graffiti - eerie, scared and hungry-looking creatures with four eyes, two gaping mouths or a crown of skulls - was like another protagonist in the play.
Dialogue is always enriching as long as it is coherent, said Castillo.
The two kept quiet about their collaboration until the day it opened to the public, at the start of the theater festival that runs from Oct. 20-29.
Fingers crossed no one from up top orders the graffiti to be erased, said Rodriguez.
LONDON (Reuters) - American author George Saunders has won the 2017 Man Booker Prize, a high-profile literary award, for his first novel, Lincoln in the Bardo, - a fictional account of U.S. President Abraham Lincoln burying his young son.
George Saunders, author of 'Lincoln in the Bardo', poses for photographers after winning the Man Booker Prize for Fiction 2017 in London, Britain, October 17, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner In his acceptance speech, Saunders, 58, noted that we live in a strange time, adding he saw the key question of the era being whether society responded to events with exclusion and negative projection and violence, or with love.
Saunders was the second consecutive American writer to win the prize, after the rules were changed in 2014 to allow authors of any book written in English and published in the U.K. to compete.
His novel, set in 1862, a year into the American Civil war, is a blend of historical accounts and imaginative fiction, which sees Lincolns son Willie, who died in the White House at age 11, in Bardo - a Tibetan form of purgatory.
The judging panel, led by author and member of Britains House of Lords Lola Young, praised the deeply moving book, saying it was utterly original.
George Saunders, author of 'Lincoln in the Bardo', poses for photographers after winning the Man Booker Prize for Fiction 2017 in London, Britain, October 17, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner Saunders was presented with his award by the Duchess of Cornwall.
Slideshow (5 Images) Last year, American Paul Beatty became the first American to win the award, for his novel The Sellout, a biting satire on race relations in the United States.
Other previous winners have included this years Nobel Prize-winning novelist Kazuo Ishiguro, Salman Rushdie, Iris Murdoch and Canadian writer Margaret Atwood.
The award was previously open only to writers from Britain, Ireland, Zimbabwe or countries in the British Commonwealth.
The winner receives a 50,000 pound ($65,000) cash prize.
(This story has been corrected to make clear Duchess of Cornwall presented award)
ROME (Reuters) - A floor mosaic from one of Roman Emperor Caligulas opulent private ships, which was stolen after World War Two, is on its way back to Italy from the United States where it has been recovered from a private collection.
The first century AD marble, serpentine and porphyry mosaic came from one of Caligulas ceremonial vessels, which was found at the bottom of Lake Nemi, near Rome, in the 1930s.
The artifact, stolen from Italys Roman Ship Museum after the war, was seized by the New York district attorneys office from the collection of an Italian woman living in New York following an Italian police investigation.
The United States have today given back to Italy several archaeological treasures that came from clandestine digs or thefts in our country, Culture Minister Dario Franceschini told a news conference in New York on Friday.
They will all be returned to the places from where the criminals took them, he said.
Among other Roman-era items recovered was a vase from the Puglia region dating to around 350 BC, which found its way to the New York Metropolitan Museum, and two amphorae from the 4th or 5th century BC.
The vase was taken from an illegal dig in the 1980s.
The artifacts presented at the news conference also included Roman coins, books and manuscripts.
Caligula, whose real name was Gaius Julius Caesar, was emperor between AD 37 and AD 41.
Historical accounts describe him as an insane, violent and sadistic man who ordered killings at a whim.
Legend has it that he planned to make his horse Incitatus a consul.
LONDON (Reuters) - A new exhibition celebrating the 20th anniversary of the first Harry Potter books publication is offering muggles with an interest in magic the chance to view rare memorabilia, combined with historic artifacts referenced in the popular series.
Harry Potter: A History of Magic, held in the British Library in London, features Potter memorabilia including author J.K. Rowlings first annotated sketch of Hogwarts school, as well as her handwritten list of its teachers and subjects.
As well as the items associated with Rowling and the book series, the exhibition also features historic artifacts from the librarys collection, including alchemists scrolls from the 1500s and Chinese oracle bones from the 12th century.
Our exhibition explores the history, mythology and folklore behind the Harry Potter stories, Julian Harrison, the exhibitions lead curator, told Reuters.
We investigate broomsticks and cauldrons and unicorns and dragons.
Weve organized the exhibition around some of the subjects that students would study at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, from potions to charms to astronomy and divination.
A gallery assistant poses for photographs during the press preview of the exhibition "Harry Potter: A History of Magic" at the British Library in London, Britain, October 18, 2017.
REUTERS/Mary Turner The seven Harry Potter books have been translated into 68 languages and have sold more than 400 million copies worldwide, Rowlings publishers say.
Slideshow (9 Images) The final book in the series was published in 2007, but the series spawned a series of hit films, a U.S. theme park and a hit stage play that have kept the franchise in the public eye.
Rowling herself appears to have enjoyed the blend of her fictional world with the librarys collection.
Encountering objects for real that have in some shape or form figured in my books has been quite wonderful, she said in a statement.
The exhibition runs from October 20 until February 28 2018.
PARIS (Reuters) - In the end it was just too kinky for the Louvre.
Dutch artist Joep van Lieshout poses in front of his "Domestikator" near the Centre Pompidou modern art museum, also known as Beaubourg, in Paris, France, October 17, 2017, after the Louvre Museum cancelled plans to exhibit the controversial sculpture in the Jardin Des Tuileries as part of the International Contemporary Art Fair (FIAC).
REUTERS/Charles Platiau The worlds most visited museum shied away from displaying a sculpture that some have labeled as too sexually explicit, but the nearby Pompidou Centre on Tuesday decided the world needed to decide for itself.
Standing 12 meters tall, Domestikator, a creation from Dutch artist Joep van Lieshout, was originally expected to stand in the 13th century Tuileries Gardens adjacent to Paris Louvre museum as part of a contemporary art fair this month.
But the geometric sculpture, showing a red human figure appearing to penetrate a four-legged creature, was perhaps just a little too imposing for the home of French art.
I was surprised first of all, and then of course disappointed, because it (Louvre Museum) couldnt show the art work, van Lieshout told Reuters TV, adding that he had never intended to elicit a sexual interpretation.
I couldnt explain my ideas to (the) larger public, he said of the Louvres decision to pull out.
Local media said the Louvre had made its decision after a barrage of negativity on social media and fears that it would not be received in such a public place.
The piece, made of steel, wood and fiberglass, is now on show in the esplanade outside the high-tech architectural building of the Pompidou Centre.
Dutch artist Joep van Lieshout poses in front of his "Domestikator" near the Centre Pompidou modern art museum, also known as Beaubourg, in Paris, France, October 17, 2017, after the Louvre Museum cancelled plans to exhibit the controversial sculpture in the Jardin Des Tuileries as part of the International Contemporary Art Fair (FIAC).
REUTERS/Charles Platiau Obscene, pornographic?
Well, obscenity is everywhere, pornography, sadly, is everywhere, certainly not in this work of art, said Bernard Blistene, director of the Pompidou Centre Museum.
This work of art is funny, it is an obvious nod to the relationship of abstraction and figurative painting that co-exist in Dutch art in the 20th century.
Spiritual yes, obscene no.
Already displayed for three years in Bochum, Germany, the sculpture had not courted any controversy until now.
Slideshow (4 Images) Van Lieshout insisted that his work defined the domestication of animals by humans for agriculture and industry as well as highlighting the ethical issues surrounding that.
I dont think its very sexually explicit.
I mean, I dont know what I can do to make it less sexually explicit, he said.
Its not the first time the International Contemporary Art Fair (FIAC) has been at the center of an artistic sex scandal in Paris.
In 2014, vandals attacked a giant green inflatable sculpture in one of the capitals most famous squares after its resemblance to a sex toy sparked an outcry.
At the time Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said the incident was an unacceptable attack on artistic freedom.
I can understand that it can shock some people, because its true, its bound to be linked to bestiality, this kind of thing, Marketing student Colombe Gaucherand said after looking over Domestikator.
But its artistic freedom and I think we shouldnt censor a work of art even if it doesnt appeal to everyone.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A year has passed since a supernatural demon terrorized the town of Hawkins, Indiana, but as Netflixs hit 1980s science fiction series Stranger Things returns for a second season on Friday, life has not returned to normal for the unlikely heroes.
FILE PHOTO: Cast members Gaten Matarazzo, Noah Schnapp, Millie Bobby Brown, Finn Wolfhard and Caleb McLaughlin from the television series "Stranger Things" poses during a Netflix/Fysee event in Beverly Hills, California U.S., June 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni The adults and teenagers of Stranger Things 2 wrestle emotionally with the events of the first season: a town boys disappearance, a death, a mysterious girl with superpowers and a decaying parallel universe called the Upside Down.
We wanted that trauma to really run through the entire season so its about these characters confronting the horrors, said Matt Duffer, one half of the Duffer Brothers, the twins who created the show.
All nine episodes of Stranger Things 2 will be released on Friday.
At the center of the show are its young teenage breakout stars.
Will Byers (Noah Schnapp) suffers worsening visions of the Upside Down after being rescued, forcing his friends to try to find a way to defeat the demon known as Demogorgon.
Eleven, the innocent, tormented young girl with superpowers played by Emmy-nominated 13-year-old Millie Bobby Brown, is believed dead and is in hiding, staying with the towns police chief, Jim Hopper.
Frustrated at being kept away from her friends, Eleven clashes with Hopper (David Harbour) and embarks on a mission to find her mother and finally find a home.
We wanted (Eleven) to go through her own journey in a way that was much more personal to her and wasnt tied to the boys, Matt Duffer said.
We wanted her to go through a journey of self-discovery without the help of anyone else.
Stranger Things has become a phenomenon for Netflix Inc, landing Emmy wins and drawing a cadre of obsessed fans who launched a viral online campaign, #JusticeForBarb, sparked by the gruesome demise of supporting character Barb Holland.
The second season ramps up the quest to bring closure to her death while introducing new characters and expanding the story geographically.
The Duffers said they anticipate five seasons to bring Stranger Things to a conclusion.
It was important to us this season to start to move out of Hawkins and to introduce this world, said Ross Duffer.
Its such a fine line and its difficult and obviously sequels always feel this way because people want some of the same - thats why they liked it in the first place - but you dont want to just go in circles, he added.
WILMINGTON, Del.
(Reuters) - The Weinstein Co film company on Thursday was sued by its founder and former co-chairman Harvey Weinstein who is seeking information that could help defend himself against sexual assault allegations, and also help defend the company against potential liability.
FILE PHOTO: Harvey Weinstein, of the Weinstein Co arrives at the Sun Valley Inn in Sun Valley, Idaho July 9, 2009.
REUTERS/Rick Wilking In the lawsuit filed in Delawares Court of Chancery, Weinstein said he needed the information to prevent the company, in which he and his brother remain the largest investors, from being harmed by unjustified legal settlements.
Representatives for Weinstein and The Weinstein Co did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The Weinstein Co has been one of Hollywoods most influential forces since its launch in October 2005 and has produced and distributed films including The Kings Speech and Silver Linings Playbook.
The New York Times reported earlier this month that Weinstein, 65, had reached eight previously undisclosed settlements with women who accused him of sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact.
The New Yorker magazine reported that 13 women had claimed that Weinstein sexually harassed or assaulted them.
On Tuesday, an actress who accuses Weinstein of sexually assaulting her filed a negligence lawsuit against the company, saying it was aware Weinstein had previously settled other allegations of harassment and assault and should not have let her meet privately with the movie producer in a hotel room.
The New York City Police Department has said it is investigating an allegation of sexual assault by Weinstein in 2004.
The Los Angeles Police Department also said earlier this month that it is investigating a 2013 sexual assault allegation against movie producer Harvey Weinstein.
Weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone.
Reuters has been unable to independently confirm any of the allegations.
In Thursdays lawsuit, Weinstein said he also wants to investigate whether confidential information was leaked to the press, if the Weinstein Companys board and executives wrongly terminated him as chief executive, and if the board is pursuing a fire sale of the company, according to the complaint and attached exhibits.
Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account -- which is the only one he used throughout the time he was employed by the company -- will contain information exonerating him, and therefore the company, from claims that may be asserted against them, Weinsteins lawyer wrote in an email to the Weinstein company, according to Thursdays filing.
The New York attorney general has opened an investigation into sexual harassment and possible violations of civil rights laws at the Weinstein Company also.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Former U.S. President George H.W.
Bush apologized through a spokesman on Wednesday for what an actress described as a sexual assault but which Bush said was intended as a friendly pat and a joke to put her at ease during a picture-taking session.
Heather Lind, who starred in the AMC cable television networks historical drama Turn: Washingtons Spies, accused Bush of groping her as they posed for photos together with his wife and others during a promotional event for the show in 2014.
The allegation surfaced in an Instagram post from Lind featuring a photograph of Bush, 93, shaking hands with former President Barack Obama during an appearance of all five living former presidents at Saturdays hurricane fund-raising benefit.
In the post, Lind, 34, said that seeing that photo reminded her of her own meeting with the 41st president three years earlier, when, according to her, he sexually assaulted me while I was posing for a similar photo.
He didnt shake my hand.
He touched me from behind from his wheelchair with his wife Barbara Bush by his side, Lind wrote.
He told me a dirty joke.
And then, all the while being photographed, touched me again.
FILE PHOTO: Former U.S. President George H.W.
Bush arrives on the field to do the coin toss ahead of the start of Super Bowl LI between the New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons in Houston, Texas, U.S., February 5, 2017.
REUTERS/Adrees Latif Lind said the former first lady rolled her eyes as if to say, not again.'
The Instagram post, since deleted, carried the MeToo social media hashtag spawned by the recent outpouring of sexual assault and sexual harassment accusations leveled against former Hollywood executive Harvey Weinstein.
Weinstein has denied engaging in non-consensual sex with anyone.
Bushs spokesman Jim McGrath, issued a statement in response to Linds post that sought to explain the former presidents behavior as an attempt to make light of social awkwardness posed by his own physical disability during photo sessions.
Confined to a wheelchair, as Bush has been for about the past five years, his arm falls on the lower waist of people with whom he take pictures, McGrath said.
To try to put people at ease, the president routinely tells the same joke - and on occasion, he has patted womens rears in what he intended to be a good-natured manner.
Some have seen it as innocent; others clearly view it as inappropriate, McGrath wrote.
To anyone he has offended, President Bush apologizes most sincerely.
Representatives for the actress were not immediately available for comment on the presidents response to her allegations, and it was not clear what prompted her to take down the Instagram post in question.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - As one of Hollywoods most famous celebrities, George Clooney is not afraid to use his platform to speak up on issues close to him, but do not expect the actor to enter the political arena anytime soon.
Ive always been around and involved in politics and believe that we all have to participate one way or another.
But no, Im not going to get into it, Clooney told Reuters.
I dont have to answer to any one person.
I dont have to make compromises, I can point the finger at whomever I think needs to be pointed out, he added.
In his latest film Suburbicon, Clooney directs a darkly humorous 1950s crime tale in which he points the finger squarely at the racial tensions in present-day America with a story about a black family moving into an affluent white suburban neighborhood as the backdrop.
I think we should constantly be talking about whether or not building walls and scapegoating of minorities is how we want to be represented, Clooney said.
I think the best way to do that is to remind ourselves that this is something that we do, that weve been doing probably since the beginning of our country and that we have to constantly litigate it, he added.
Director George Clooney (R) and cast members Matt Damon and Julianne Moore pose for a portrait while promoting the movie "Suburbicon" in Los Angeles, California, U.S., October 22, 2017.
Picture taken October 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Suburbicon, out in U.S. theaters on Friday, follows Gardner Lodge (Matt Damon) in the aftermath of a terrifying break-in at his suburban home, which results in the suspicious death of his wife.
As the investigation into the tragedy deepens, Gardner and his wifes twin sister Maggie (Julianne Moore) find themselves in a situation quickly escalating beyond their control.
Slideshow (2 Images) This was probably the darkest role Ive ever had a chance to play, which is very liberating, Damon said.
Clooney said that while there are people much better qualified to tell the story of African-Americans in mid-20th century suburbia, he wanted to use the story of the Mayers family - based on a real black family that moved into the all-white suburb of Levittown, Pennsylvania in 1957 - to shine a light on the absurdity of racism.
In numerous scenes, the white inhabitants of the town say that while they do not want African-Americans to be oppressed, they do not want black families in their neighborhood.
The pinnacle of white privilege is my character driving around the neighborhood on a bicycle covered in blood murdering people and nobodys looking at him because theyre all focused on the Mayers family and blaming them for all their problems, Damon said.
(Reuters) - Fats Domino, who brought rolling New Orleans boogie-woogie piano to early rock n roll in chart-topping hits such as Blueberry Hill and Aint That a Shame, has died at the age of 89, officials said on Wednesday.
FILE PHOTO: U.S. musician Fats Domino tips his hat to the crowd during the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in New Orleans May 7, 2006.
REUTERS/Lee Celano/File Photo Domino, who for a while was mistakenly thought to have been killed when Hurricane Katrina devastated his New Orleans neighborhood in 2005, died at home on Tuesday of natural causes, the Jefferson Parish Coroners Office said.
As one of the pioneers of rock n roll in the 1950s, Domino sold 65 million records - more than anyone in that period except Elvis Presley, according to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
He had dozens of songs on the pop and rhythm-and-blues charts, including Blueberry Hill, Aint That a Shame, Blue Monday, Im Walkin, Whole Lotta Loving, Hello, Josephine, Walking to New Orleans, Im Gonna Be a Wheel Some Day and Let the Four Winds Blow.
For lack of a better way of putting it, hes a living, walking legend among us in New Orleans, singer Irma Thomas told the New York Times in 2007.
Between him and Louis Armstrong, they were the first big names to put us on the musical map.
Antoine Dominique Domino was born on Feb. 26, 1928 in New Orleans and one of nine children.
A brother-in-law taught him piano, leading to a style that mixed the classic New Orleans sound with blues, country and Cajun music.
He was performing in nightclubs while still a teenager and soon teamed with trumpet player Dave Bartholomew, who would become his co-writer and producer and help refine his piano style.
His nickname was attributed to his short, squatty stature, as well as a tribute to two other pianists - Fats Waller and New Orleans native Fats Pichon.
Like contemporaries Little Richard and Chuck Berry, Domino was a black performer whose music crossed over to white audiences and helped shape early rock.
His first hit was an R&B song, the autobiographical The Fat Man, recorded in 1949 and considered among the first songs in the rock n roll genre.
DOMINO EFFECT FILE PHOTO: R&B legend Fats Domino performs at the 34th annual Jazz and Heritage Festival in New Orleans, April 24, 2003.
REUTERS/David Rae Morris/File Photo Also like Little Richard, one of his biggest hits, Aint That a Shame, was later recorded by Pat Boone, a white singer, whose version received more radio airplay.
A live version of the song by the rock band Cheap Trick was a hit in 1978.
Domino would be a huge influence on rockers who came after him - John Lennon told a New York radio station that Aint That a Shame was the first song he learned to play - but his prominence began to wane after the British invasion and other forms of rock took root in the 1960s.
Harry Connick Jr., from a later generation of New Orleans musicians, said on Twitter, You helped pave the way for New Orleans piano players... see you on top of that blueberry hill in the sky.
Guitarist Vernon Reid of the band Living Color mourned Dominos death by tweeting, Rock & Roll lost part of its soul.
In his later years Domino was reluctant to perform and rarely left his beloved hometown, but he did go to Indianola, Mississippi, in 2015 to play Amazing Grace at B.B.
Kings funeral.
Domino was a longtime resident of New Orleans Ninth Ward - the section of the city hit hardest by Katrinas floodwaters - and had resisted early pleas to evacuate as the hurricane approached.
For a time he was believed to have died in the flooding and the words R.I.P.
Fats You will be missed were spray-painted on his house, which was flooded up to the roof.
It was later learned that Domino and his family had been rescued by boat and taken to the refugee center set up at the Superdome in the city before going to Baton Rouge.
They lost most of their possessions in the flood but managed to save Dominos couch, which was custom-made from the rear end of a vintage pink Cadillac.
After Katrina, he moved to a New Orleans suburb to live with his daughter.
The Recording Industry of America late gave Domino reproductions to replace the 20 gold record awards he lost.
His Grammy Awards also were replaced and President George W. Bush visited Domino to give him a new National Medal of the Arts.
Domino titled his 2006 album Alive and Kickin and proceeds went to help rebuild New Orleans and preserve its musical heritage.
Domino was among the inaugural class of artists inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986.
(A previous version of this story incorrectly referred to Indiana University as the University of Indiana) FILE PHOTO: Film producer Harvey Weinstein attends the 2016 amfAR New York Gala at Cipriani Wall Street in Manhattan, New York, U.S. on February 10, 2016.
REUTERS/Andrew Kelly/File Photo By Daniel Wiessner (Reuters) - An actress who claims she was sexually assaulted by Harvey Weinstein has filed a negligence lawsuit against his former company, in what may be the first civil case brought against The Weinstein Co or Weinstein himself after reports that the Hollywood movie producer sexually harassed or assaulted women.
The complaint, filed by Dominique Huett in state court in Los Angeles on Tuesday, says the company was aware that Weinstein had previously settled other allegations of harassment and assault and should not have let the movie producer meet privately with Huett in a hotel room in 2010.
Representatives for the Weinstein Company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
A spokeswoman for Harvey Weinstein said any allegations of non-consensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein.
The New York Times reported on Oct. 5 that Weinstein had reached eight previously undisclosed settlements with women who accused him of sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact.
The New Yorker magazine reported that 13 women had claimed that Weinstein sexually harassed or assaulted them.
The New York City Police Department has said it is investigating an allegation of sexual assault by Weinstein in 2004.
The Los Angeles Police Department said earlier this month that it is investigating a 2013 sexual assault allegation against Weinstein.
Reuters has been unable to independently confirm any of the allegations.
However, in California, negligence claims must be brought within a two-year statute of limitations.
Jennifer Drobac, a law professor at Indiana University and an expert in sexual harassment law, said that Huett will have a tough time proving her case given the time limit in the statute of limitations has expired.
But in Huetts lawsuit, the actress says she could not have known about the alleged pattern of harassment by Weinstein, or the companys knowledge of it until media reports surfaced earlier this month.
Drobac argued though that Huett could have sued Weinstein after the alleged incident, which might have led her to discover more about Weinsteins past behavior and what the company knew about it.
Huett played a minor role in a 2015 episode of CBS television police drama Blue Bloods, according to the International Movie Database.
SYDNEY (Reuters) - A New Zealand political party has been ordered to pay more than $400,000 to U.S. rapper Eminem for using music similar to his 2002 hit Lose Yourself in a television commercial to help win a national election.
FILE PHOTO - Musician Eminem attends the premiere of "Southpaw" in New York July 20, 2015.
REUTERS/Andrew Kelly/File Photo The track, played during the National Partys successful 2014 election campaign and titled Eminem Esque, was found by a New Zealand court to have substantially copied Lose Yourself.
The National Party used the song 186 times during the campaign before taking the ad off the air, the court said.
This decision is a warning to sound-alike music producers and their clients everywhere, Adam Simpson, director of Simpsons Solicitors, who acted for Eminems music company, Eight Mile Style, said in a statement.
The National Party said the music was licensed with one of New Zealands main industry copyright bodies, the Australasian Mechanical Copyright Owners Society (AMCOS).
Being licensed and available for purchase, and having taken advice from our suppliers, the party believed the purchase was legal, National Party President Peter Goodfellow said in a statement.
The party is now considering the implications of the judgment and the next steps.
We already have a claim against the suppliers and licensors of the track.
The court found Eight Mile Style was entitled to damages of NZ$600,000 ($413,000) with interest from June 28, 2014.
We anticipate that all the defendants will meet to discuss the implications of the decision in the very near future, copyright body AMCOS said in an email, hailing the decision as an important first step towards resolution of the matter.
The publisher had exclusive control over the song, and rarely gave permission for its use in advertising, the court said.
It was no coincidence that the works sounded the same and the undeniable inference to be drawn from the evidence is that the composer of Eminem Esque had Lose Yourself in front of him at the time of composition, it added.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - The end of the world is nigh, and Marvels brawny superhero Thor finds himself hammerless and held hostage on a kitsch futuristic planet light years away from his home, in a sequel that revamps the slightly dim-witted Norse god with irreverent humor.
Thor: Ragnarok, the third installment of Marvels standalone Thor film franchise, sees Chris Hemsworth reprise his role as the superhero and places Thor well outside of his comfort zone, relying on others to help him save the world.
I was a bit sick of the Thor Id created, Chris Hemsworth told Reuters.
I think that I have an obligation to change it up, you know, and give people something different, something new, he added.
Ragnarok, in international theaters this week and on Nov. 3 in North America, opens with Thor hanging from a dungeon ceiling in a cave talking to a skeleton, and as things only get more bizarre, Hemsworth showcases his comedic timing with off-the-cuff jokes.
Hes literally playing himself, director Taika Waititi said.
You look at Chris, he looks like Thor weirdly, and hes funny, charming, beautiful guy, lovely guy and loves hammers ... he is that character.
World Premiere of Thor: Ragnarok Los Angeles, California, U.S., 11/10/2017 - (L-R) Jeff Goldblum, Tessa Thompson, Taika Waititi, Chris Hemsworth, Cate Blanchett, Tom Hiddleston and Mark Ruffalo.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni After reuniting with his mischievous and devious brother Loki, Thor discovers they have a sister, the formidable Hela (Cate Blanchett), who has her eyes on destroying his celestial home of Asgard.
Thor loses his magic power-wielding hammer and is cast away by his sister to an unknown futuristic planet and held hostage by an eccentric Grandmaster (Jeff Goldblum), forced to fight his fellow Avenger, the Hulk.
Slideshow (2 Images) Ragnarok, part of Walt Disney Cos Marvel film franchise, is by far the biggest production for New Zealand director Waititi, who previously wrote and directed small, independent fare such as 2010s Boy and 2016s Hunt For the Wilderpeople.
But the comedy in Ragnarok is very much a trademark of Waititi, who likes to find comedy often by placing unlikely characters in mundane settings, such as vampires sharing an apartment in 2014s cult hit What We Do in the Shadows.
Waititi said in fact that the vampire mockumentary may be remade into an American TV series.
I love the idea of ... Hulk and Thor (sitting) on the bed making up after an argument -- like, you dont see that in these films, Waititi said.
The fact that they allowed me to put that kind of stuff in this movie is amazing and thats why I think it feels like a Taika film.
, (Reuters) - Two-time Emmy Award-winning actor Robert Guillaume, who became one of the most prominent black actors on U.S. television playing the cantankerous title character in the hit 1980s series Benson, died of complications from prostate cancer on Tuesday, his wife said.
He was 89.
FILE PHOTO: Actor Robert Guillaume who starred on the television series "Benson," "Soap," and Sports Night" poses as he arrives for the ABC television networks 50th anniversary in Hollywood, California, U.S., March 16, 2003.
REUTERS/Fred Prouser The gravelly voiced Guillaume, who thrived in Broadway musicals before starring on the TV series Soap and its spinoff Benson, died at his Los Angeles home, his wife Donna Brown Guillaume said in a statement.
It is not known how long he had been battling cancer.
Robert Guillaume first played sarcastic and irascible butler Benson DuBois on the over-the-top soap opera parody series Soap, which debuted in 1977 and also starred Katherine Helmond, Richard Mulligan and Billy Crystal.
His work on that show won Guillaume won the Emmy for outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series in 1979.
His character became so popular that the ABC network created Benson for him and that series ran for seven seasons from 1979 to 1986.
Guillaumes character had been a butler on Soap but on Benson he served as a state governors director of household affairs, then state budget director, lieutenant governor and candidate for governor.
Guillaume won the Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a comedy series in 1985 for Benson, the last of six times that he was nominated for an Emmy playing the character.
He became the first black actor to win that award.
In accepting the Emmy, he joked, Id like to thank Bill Cosby for not being here, referring to the fact that the star of The Cosby Show and the leading contender for the award had earlier taken himself out of the running for it.
Guillaume said he was sensitive about not playing his character as a racial stereotype and was pleased that Benson evolved from being a butler to a political power player - albeit one that retained the same crotchety attitude.
UPWARD MOBILITY In all honesty and candor and modesty, I always wanted the character to have that kind of upward mobility because it mirrored the American dream, Guillaume told the Washington Post in 1985.
When I took a role like Benson, which was in that time-honored sense another black person in a servants role, I only took the part because it was a good part, it was a part in which I thought, with my own set of ideas about things, I could say something.
And indeed that has been the case.
We saw Benson was in no way anyones inferior.
After the end of Benson, he starred in the short-lived sitcom The Robert Guillaume Show in 1989, as well as the series Pacific Station (1991-1992) and Sports Night (1998-2000).
He suffered a stroke in 1999 on the set of Sports Night but was able to return to his role within weeks.
On film, Guillaume provided the voice for the mandrill Rafiki in Disneys animated 1994 hit The Lion King and appeared with Morgan Freeman in the 1989 drama Lean on Me.
In 1977, he earned a Tony Award nomination for his role in the Broadway musical Guys and Dolls.
He also had leading roles on stage in Purlie and Golden Boy.
Born Robert Peter Williams on Nov. 30, 1927, he changed his name to Robert Guillaume to make it more distinctive (Guillaume is French for William).
He was raised by his strong-willed grandmother in a St. Louis slum after his alcoholic mother gave up her children and his father abandoned the family.
After a brief military stint, he worked a series of jobs including as a trolley driver to save money for college.
He studied music at Washington University in St. Louis, where he was noticed by a Hungarian opera singer who helped him get a scholarship to the 1957 Aspen Music Festival and School in Colorado.
That was followed by an apprenticeship at a theater in Cleveland where he made his professional debut.
(Reuters) - Singer Kid Rock ruled out running for a seat in the U.S. Senate on Tuesday, saying in a radio interview that his earlier hints about seeking office next year were a lark as he readied to release a new album and go on tour.
FILE PHOTO: Kid Rock inducts rock band Cheap Trick at the 31st annual Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York, U.S. on April 8, 2016.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz/File Photo Rock, 46, a supporter of U.S. President Donald Trump, fostered rumors he would run, presumably in his native Michigan, throughout the year.
In July, he launched a website and promoted it through social media: kidrockforsenate.com.
But in a profanity-laced appearance on the Howard Stern radio show he scoffed at the idea of him as a senator, saying it was obvious he was never serious.
Lets roll with it for a little while, he said on Tuesday, recalling his decision to feed the chatter.
Everyone gets their panties in a bunch.
Rock, born Robert James Ritchie, has a new album, Sweet Southern Sugar, coming out next month.
He earned fame with his 1998 debut album, Devil Without a Cause.
His music mixes rap, rock and country.
Debbie Stabenow, a Democrat and one of Michigans two senators, is up for re-election for her fourth term in 2018.
She used the Rock rumors to urge supporters to donate to her campaign, saying polls showed he actually could become the Republican candidate.
In July, Rock said he was concerned about voter apathy and planned to start a non-profit organization to encourage people to register to vote.
His publicist, Kirt Webster, did not respond on Tuesday to questions about the progress Rock has made to that end.
(CNN) George Clooney took his latest turn in the director's chair for Paramount's upcoming "Suburbicon," but unlike with his previous films, the veteran actor stayed at his post behind the camera this time around.
"You know, it's really hard to direct yourself, because it's embarrassing, as you could imagine," Clooney told CNN in a recent interview.
"It's bad.
So it was really nice to not have to be in the film and to be able to sit back and just direct and just watch really good actors sort of make the material work really well."
Those really good actors are in no short supply in "Suburbicon."
Matt Damon, 11-year-old Noah Jupe and Julianne Moore, pulling double duty as twin sisters, play a family unit whose seemingly ordinary life in 1950s suburbia turns complicated after a series of dark twists.
Think murder, hit men, and Oscar Isaac as an over-the-top insurance investigator. "
allowfullscreen> Karimah Westbrook, Leith M. Burke, and Tony Espinosa play their neighbors in a parallel story inspired by real-life events that took place in Levittown, Pennsylvania.
Read More
(CNN) Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams are the latest women to accuse director James Toback of sexual harassment.
In separate interviews with Vanity Fair , Blair and McAdams recounted their alleged experiences with Toback, whom they'd met in business meetings years ago.
Toback is best known as the screenwriter and director behind films such as "The Pick-up Artist," "The Gambler," and "Bugsy."
Blair alleges that in their meeting, Toback asked her to audition for him naked and then requested that she let him rub himself against her.
"I felt disgust and shame, and like nobody would ever think of me as being clean again after being this close to the devil," Blair told Vanity Fair.
"His energy was so sinister."
Actress Selma Blair She also claims he threatened her with violence if she told anyone about her experience.
McAdams, too, met with Toback under the guise that they'd be talking about work, in particular, a role in 2001's "Harvard Man," which Toback wrote.
Instead, McAdams said their meeting was filled with inappropriate comments from Toback that left her feeling uncomfortable.
"This has been such a source of shame for me -- that I didn't have the wherewithal to get up and leave," she said.
"I was very lucky that I left and he didn't actually physically assault me in any way."
The Los Angeles Times was the first to bring allegations against Toback to light in a story published Sunday.
To date, more than 200 women have accused Toback of inappropriate conduct, according to LA Times writer Glenn Whipp.
Toback's agent, Jeff Berg, said Sunday he would pass a request for a comment on to his client.
Berg has since ceased representing Toback.
The director, 72, denied the allegations when contacted by the Times, the newspaper said.
Toback told the paper he had never met any of the women -- or if he did meet them, it "was for five minutes and (he had) no recollection."
He said that for the last 22 years, it was "biologically impossible" for him to take part in the behavior the women described in the article, saying he had diabetes and a heart condition requiring medication, the Los Angeles Times reported.
He declined to elaborate.
CNN has contacted representatives for McAdams and Blair for comment on this story.
After the LA Times first wrote of multiple women sharing similar stories about Toback, "Guardians of the Galaxy" director James Gunn posted on his official Facebook page that when he was living in New York City in the 1990s, Toback "was EVERYWHERE."
"I have personally met at least FIFTEEN WOMEN, probably more, who say that he's accosted them in NYC," Gunn wrote.
"He essentially goes up to women and says, 'Hey, I'm James Toback, and I'm a famous director, and I feel like there's a connection between us.'
Then he shows them some article on himself or some other artifact to prove he is who he is, and tries to get them to go somewhere else with him."
And Gunn wasn't alone in speaking out.
Oscar-winning actress Julianne Moore shared on Twitter her story of Toback allegedly propositioning her in the 1980s.
"James Toback approached me in the 80's on Columbus Ave with the same language -- wanted me to audition, come to his apt," she tweeted.
"I refused.
One month later he did it again with the EXACT same language.
I said don't u remember u did this before?"
@GlennWhipp 1 - #JamesToback approached me in the 80's on Columbus Ave with the same language - wanted me to audition, come to his apt.
Julianne Moore (@_juliannemoore) October 24, 2017 @GlennWhipp 2.
I refused.
One month later he did it again with the EXACT same language.
I said don't u remember u did this before?
Julianne Moore (@_juliannemoore) October 24, 2017 "Today" cohost Natalie Morales wrote in a tweet that she, too, could be added to the list of women who allege run-ins with Toback.
"Glenn add one more," she wrote, referring to Whipp.
"Exact same playbook by James Toback when I encountered him near Central Park."
CNN's Darran Simon and Janet DiGiacomo contributed to this story.
(CNN) An emotional Ashley Judd made her first TV appearance on "Good Morning America" since coming forward with allegations of misconduct against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein and kickstarting a nationwide discussion about sexual harassment against women.
"I didn't expect that I would feel tearful, but it's been an absolutely tremendously moving two and a half or three weeks," Judd told Diane Sawyer in a portion of an interview broadcast Thursday morning.
Judd, who was one of the first women and actors to come forward with allegations against Weinstein, recalled the alleged meeting back in the 90s that she first recounted to the New York Times in a bombshell story.
She said she met Weinstein in a hotel room for what she believed to be a business meeting.
Once she arrived, Judd said she was confronted by a bathrobe-clad Weinstein, who offered her a massage and asked if she would watch him shower.
Her account to the Times was previously confirmed to CNN by her publicist.
Read More
Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Justin Bieber swept the slightly older Selena Gomez off her feet , and the two were on and off for a while.
Although their relationship appeared to end for good in 2013, they spent an awful lot of quality time together in 2014 before finally going their separate ways.
Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Once upon a time in 1999, a young blonde pop star named Jessica Simpson met another young blond-ish pop star, Nick Lachey, at a Teen People party, and they immediately fell in love.
Lachey even wrote a song about their passion -- that would be "My Everything" -- and then he and his new bride signed up to film their love for an MTV reality show called "Newlyweds."
But instead of finding "happily ever after," Lachey and Simpson found grounds for divorce in 2005 after three years of marriage.
Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up In 2001, every teenager with access to MTV and Teen People wanted to find the Britney Spears to their Justin Timberlake (or vice versa).
With those two ruling pop music, not even their questionable fashion could mar the public's love for their romance.
Sadly, matching denim outfits wasn't enough to make this last: The couple broke up in 2002, and many listeners believe Timberlake's "Cry Me a River" is about his relationship with Spears.
Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Johnny Depp and Winona Ryder had amazing chemistry on- and off-screen, from "Edward Scissorhands" to the tattoo parlor, where Depp had "Winona Forever" inked on his arm.
Alas, although we adored their courtship, Depp and Ryder weren't meant to be.
Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Country stars Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert stunned fans when they announced in July that they were divorcing after four years of marriage.
There was much sadness on social media over the split.
Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Madonna's four-year marriage to Sean Penn was one of the wildest rides of the '80s, and that's saying something, but we agree with her words after their divorce in 1989: "I do believe we all have soul mates," she told People magazine.
"I don't believe that we necessarily end up with them."
After their split, both Madonna and Penn moved on to new relationships (several times).
Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Lenny Kravitz and former "Cosby Show" star Lisa Bonet seemed tailor-made for each other, right down to their love of hippie style.
The pair met at a New Edition concert in 1985 and married in 1987, welcoming daughter Zoe a year later.
"We were very young, and it was wonderful," Kravitz recalled in 2013, 20 years after their marriage came to an end.
Now, "Zoe's mom and I are best friends," Kravitz said.
"It's interesting because that's how the relationship started."
Bonet is now married to actor Jason Momoa.
Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up One of our other favorite '90s couples again includes Depp, who dated model Kate Moss from 1994 to 1998.
A pairing with that much heat and great hair should never fall apart.
Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up David Arquette and Courteney Cox were so adorable together, they could be endearing in a horror movie, as they were in 1996's "Scream."
It was a shock when, after 11 years of marriage, the two announced they were breaking up in 2010.
The couple, who have one daughter, Coco, have remained friends.
Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up When "Milkshake" singer Kelis caught Nas' attention at an afterparty for the 2002 MTV Video Music Awards, the artistic couple quickly became the hottest pairing in hip-hop.
Unfortunately, the sparks flying between the two combusted in 2009, when Kelis -- seven months pregnant with the couple's son, Knight -- filed for divorce after four years of marriage.
Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Aaron Carter misses the way things were.
The singer tweeted in March 2014 that he'll spend his life "trying to better myself to get back to" his ex Hilary Duff, calling her "the love of (my) life."
Duff and Carter dated as teens on and off from 2001 to 2003, and just the thought of them reuniting makes us nostalgic.
Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up From their first screen test for 2008's "Twilight," Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were the perfect match.
According to director Catherine Hardwicke , Stewart "felt connected to (Pattinson) from the first moment.
That electricity or love at first sight or whatever it is."
Whatever "it" was, it didn't survive a cheating scandal in 2012, when Stewart admitted that she'd had a "momentary indiscretion" with her "Snow White and the Huntsman" director, Rupert Sanders.
Call us crazy, but we still have hope for these two.
After all, they've rekindled their romance once before.
Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up The reason we're wistful for the days when Ryan Gosling was dating Rachel McAdams is simple: If the two people who starred in "The Notebook" can't make it work, who can?
Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Khloe Kardashian's whirlwind romance with basketball player Lamar Odom made us skeptical at first, but once we saw them in action we believed love really can be found in a month.
Kardashian eventually filed for divorce after nearly five years of marriage.
"It's definitely not anything I'm through," she said of her breakup in March 2014 .
"I'm going through it, but I'm not (over) it."
And while she put the divorce proceedings on hold in 2015 to support him through his health crisis, she refiled in July 2016.
Hide Caption 14 of 17
Story highlights Burgess was honored by GLAAD Wednesday He said he wants to make his fans proud (CNN) "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt" star Tituss Burgess returned to his native Georgia on Wednesday as a state hero -- even though he doesn't consider himself one.
"Georgia is my heart," the actor said.
"But there are some things,legislatively, that Georgia needs to get woke on real quick.
So I don't know if I can relish in being a hero because the work isn't done."
GLAAD presented Burgess, who grew up in Athens, Georgia, with its Local Hero Award at the GLAAD Gala Atlanta.
The state has recently found itself in the national spotlight over controversial comments made by one of its lawmakers.
This week, Georgia state representative Betty Price, a Republican, was slammed after making comments suggesting that HIV-positive Georgians should be quarantined.
Price, who is also the wife of former U.S. health secretary Tom Price, later told the Atlanta Journal Constitution in a statement that she was simply being "provocative" and that she is not in favor of quarantines.
Read More
Disney Channel's "Andi Mack" will feature its first LGBT storyline by having one of the main characters, 13-year-old Cyrus Goodman, discover his sexuality in season two.
Story highlights "Stranger Things" is getting a post show It comes out same day as season 2 (CNN) As if you weren't already going to binge on season 2 of "Stranger Things."
Netflix has some Halloween candy for you this year as there will now be a "Stranger Things" after show.
"Beyond Stranger Things" is set to be hosted by writer, producer, actor and super fan Jim Rash and according to the streaming giant "tackles inspiration for the series, behind-the-scenes stories, and analyzes every aspect of the second season -- answering all the burning questions."
It will also feature appearances by everyone from creators Matt and Ross Duffer to the cast of the hit series which has found success mixing sci-fi, horror and nostalgia.
Read More
Story highlights Wintour appeared on Corden's show She shut down a rumor that she dated Bob Marley (CNN) There are two things Anna Wintour apparently is not a fan of: fast food and the President of the United States.
The legendary Vogue editor appeared Wednesday on "The Late Late Show with James Corden" and played "Spill Your Guts or Fill Your Guts," in which guests either have to answer an uncomfortable question or eat food they find disgusting.
It turns out fast food is what turns Wintour off, so while there were weird options like bull penis, pickled pigs feet and a thousand-year-old egg, there were also items like a bacon cheeseburger in a donut, a chilli smoothie and bacon-wrapped pizza.
Wintour opted to take a bite of the bacon-wrapped pizza rather than rank designers Tom Ford, Marc Jacobs and Ralph Lauren from best to worst.
"It's covered in grease," Wintour exclaimed after eating.
Read More
Story highlights Mayer marked the date on social media Earlier he said he's replaced alcohol with marijuana (CNN) John Mayer is celebrating a year without alcohol.
"One year ago today, I decided to give drinking a break," Mayer wrote in a tweet.
"A very personal thing for everyone.
For me, a constant return on investment."
"I post this because I want people to know that 'that's enough for now' is on the menu, so to speak," he added.
One year ago today, I decided to give drinking a break.
A very personal thing for everyone.
For me, a constant return on investment.
John Mayer (@JohnMayer) October 24, 2017 I post this because I want people to know that "that's enough for now" is on the menu, so to speak.
John Mayer (@JohnMayer) October 24, 2017 "I put it where drinking used to go, and the quality of life has gone up considerably," he said.
"Drinking is a f***ing con."
Read More
Story highlights Biden and Lady Gaga release video on Twitter for "It's On Us" campaign Former vice president said "its on everyone" to prevent sexual assault Washington (CNN) Lady Gaga and former Vice President Joe Biden are teaming up again to advocate against sexual assault, releasing a PSA as part of the "It's On Us" campaign started by Biden and former President Barack Obama.
"Lady Gaga has been the voice for people who have been forgotten, the people who have been abused -- until it happens to you," he said in the video shared on Lady Gaga's Twitter account Wednesday.
"Well, it happened to her, and she's shown enormous courage and we want to make it real clear: It's on us, it's on everyone to intervene to stop abuse when they see it and when they hear about it to intervene."
Lady Gaga, a sexual assault survivor, said she and Biden wanted to remind people that "it's important to reach out to someone in your life that you can trust, and to know that they will be there to help you."
At the 2016 Oscars ceremony, Biden appeared in a telecast to introduce Lady Gaga's performance of her song, "'Til it Happens to You," an original song about sexual assault.
Biden has been an outspoken proponent for campus sexual assault awareness, leading the Obama administration's efforts to urge greater awareness of the topic.
Obama and Biden started the "It's On Us" campaign in 2014 in recognition of the issue.
Read More
Story highlights Actress alleged incident occurred four years ago She said it happened as Barbara Bush stood nearby (CNN) Former president George H.W.
Bush has responded after an actress alleged that he touched her inappropriately while he was sitting in his wheelchair during a photo op that took place a few years ago.
In a now deleted Instagram post published on her verified account Tuesday, actress Heather Lind wrote that she was "disturbed today by a photo I saw of President Barack Obama shaking hands with George H. W. Bush in a gathering of ex-presidents organising aid to states and territories damaged by recent hurricanes."
"I found it disturbing because I recognize the respect ex-presidents are given for having served," Lind wrote.
"And I feel pride and reverence toward many of the men in the photo."
Lind did not mention the name of the event where the alleged touching took place, nor did she specify in her post the manner in which she was touched.
She said in her caption that she was there with the Bushes to promote a TV show.
Former President George H.W.
Bush, left, and Actress Heather Lind, right.
"But when I got the chance to meet George H. W. Bush four years ago to promote a historical television show I was working on, he sexually assaulted me while I was posing for a similar photo," the post went on to say.
"He didn't shake my hand.
He touched me from behind from his wheelchair with his wife Barbara Bush by his side.
He told me a dirty joke.
And then, all the while being photographed, touched me again."
Read More
(CNN) Another actress has come forward claiming Harvey Weinstein sexually assaulted her and has filed a lawsuit against the Weinstein Company alleging it "condoned and enabled" his misconduct.
The civil complaint filed Tuesday in a Los Angeles County court claims that Weinstein sexually assaulted Dominique Huett in 2010.
Huett met Weinstein to discuss business at a Beverly Hills hotel and was invited to his room under the guise of continuing the meeting, according to the complaint.
Weinstein demanded she give him a massage and requested to perform oral sex on her.
The complaint said Weinstein wouldn't take no for answer.
"Weinstein engaged in sexual misconduct with Ms. Huett by, among other things, performing oral sex on Ms. Huett and masturbating in front of her," according to the complaint.
Huett's lawsuit alleges the Weinstein Company "was aware of Weinstein's pattern of using his power to coerce and force young actresses to engage in sexual acts with him."
Allegations of nonconsensual sex denied When reached by CNN's Brian Stelter on Wednesday, a spokesperson from the Weinstein Company declined to comment on the lawsuit.
More than 40 women have accused Weinstein of inappropriate behavio r, ranging from sexual harassment to rape, since The New York Times first published an article exposing decades of Weinstein's alleged misdeeds.
After a New Yorker article included multiple allegations of rape, Weinstein's spokesperson told CNN: "Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr.
Weinstein."
On Tuesday, another woman came forward, alleging that Weinstein sexually assaulted her in 2006.
Mimi Haleyi is on a list of people that New York officials are seeking to speak with in the ongoing investigation into allegations against Weinstein, according to law enforcement sources.
Haleyi spoke at a news conference joined by her attorney, Gloria Allred.
Haleyi said she wanted "a good relationship with [Weinstein], but not a sexual or romantic one."
She said he invited her to his New York loft and after she arrived, he was all over her and "wouldn't take no for an answer."
He "orally forced himself on me while I was on my period," Haleyi said.
"I was disgusted.
I was mortified.
I was in disbelief and disgusted."
Weinstein has not commented on Haleyi's accusations at this time.
When asked why Haleyi didn't go to law enforcement after the alleged sexual assault, Allred said her client had her reasons and would not comment on what those were.
Allred said she has written to the Weinstein Company board, asking for a meeting.
She said she hasn't made any contact with Weinstein or his lawyers because she's trying to respect his therapy.
Story highlights Clarkson is opening up about her battle to conform to fame's expectations of beauty She said she was always in the gym but it punished her body (CNN) Kelly Clarkson may have looked good to some years ago when she was dieting and working out to stay thin, but she is now saying she didn't feel good.
The singer is clarifying some comments she made to Attitude magazine about battling her weight.
"When I was really skinny I wanted to kill myself," the publication quoted her as saying .
"I was miserable, like inside and out, for four years of my life.
But no one cared, because aesthetically you make sense."
Clarkson, 35, first burst on the music scene after winning the first season of "American Idol" in 2002.
With fame also came the pressures of maintaining a certain look.
The magazine quoted Clarkson as calling that period of her life "a very dark time for me."
The Kardashian-Jenner family is staying in the world of reality TV, at least for the next three years.
CNNMoney has confirmed that the famous family renewed its contract with the E!
network through 2020.
"We recently celebrated the milestone 10th anniversary of 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' on E!.
We have aired 13 wildly successful seasons of the franchise as well as 11 spin-offs, and season 14 is off to a strong start," an E!
spokesperson said in a statement.
"We are incredibly proud of our partnership with the Kardashians and they remain an important part of the E!
family.
We look forward to continuing our collaboration for years to come."
Despite reports that claim E!
shelled out upwards of $100 million, a source says it's "well south" of that figure.
"Keeping Up With The Kardashians" first debuted in 2007 and the show celebrated its 14th season premiere on October 1.
Although the series, which is produced by Ryan Seacrest Productions and Bunim/Murray Productions, has been steadily declining in ratings over recent years, that hasn't stopped E!
from forging ahead with spinoffs.
Most recently, the youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner family, Kylie Jenner, premiered "The Life Of Kylie" in August and Rob Kardashian appeared in "Rob & Chyna" last September.
With the recent news of Kylie's pregnancy and Kim Kardashian's announcement that she and Kanye West are expecting their third child via surrogate, there's an abundance of material for even more spinoffs.
Kris Jenner recently told Variety that as for a potential Kylie & Kim show, never say never.
"We don't do a spinoff every single season, so we'll see," she said.
"There's always a spinoff."
Story highlights The suit alleged the song had been copied Lawyer calls decision "a major precedent" (CNN) You better lose yourself the moment you try to copy an Eminem song.
According to a press release from the High Court of New Zealand, the New Zealand National Party must pay the New Zealand dollars equivalent of almost $413,000 for copyright infringement after it copied the rapper's hit "Lose Yourself" for an ad.
"Eminem Esque" was featured in Party advertisements and played on television, the internet and at a Party conference in the lead up to the 2014 election.
Detroit based Eight Mile Style, the publishing company which holds the copyright to "Lose Yourself," filed suit.
The song was written by the rapper (who was born Marshall Mathers III) along with his frequent collaborators Jeffrey Bass and Luis Resto.
Read More
(CNN) Antoine "Fats" Domino, a titan of early rock 'n' roll whose piano-based hits -- such as "Ain't That a Shame," "Blueberry Hill" and "Blue Monday" -- influenced artists including Paul McCartney and Randy Newman, died Tuesday, an official said.
Domino passed away due to natural causes, according to Mark Bone, chief investigator with the Jefferson Parish Medical Examiner's office in Louisiana.
He was 89.
With producer and arranger Dave Bartholomew, Domino cut a string of songs in the 1950s and early '60s that helped establish his hometown of New Orleans as a rock 'n' roll hotbed and made him one of the music's leading figures.
The pair recorded "The Fat Man" in late 1949, a song considered one of the first rock 'n' roll records -- a group that includes Wynonie Harris' version of "Good Rockin' Tonight" (1947) and Jackie Brenston and Ike Turner's "Rocket 88" (1951) -- and followed it up with more than 30 Top 40 hits, including 23 gold singles.
Starting in 1955, Domino was a regular on the national pop charts with songs that quickly became classics.
Among the titles: "Ain't That a Shame" -- Domino's first crossover hit, which was watered down in a higher-charting version by Pat Boone -- "I'm Walkin'," "I'm Ready," "Valley of Tears," "I Want to Walk You Home" and "Walking to New Orleans."
He sold more records than any 1950s figure except Elvis Presley , according to Rolling Stone.
His version of "Blueberry Hill," a song written in 1940, topped out at No.
2 on the Billboard charts and remains Domino's highest-charting record.
Most of his hits were characterized by midtempo rhythms and Domino's distinctive triplet-based piano style, in which he hammered chords in groups of three in rollicking, melodic fashion.
The arrangements usually included a saxophone solo and a lead guitar line that echoed the melody.
The style was widely imitated.
McCartney, a big Domino fan, wrote the Beatles song "Lady Madonna" in emulation of the pianist's work.
(Domino returned the favor on his 1968 comeback album, "Fats Is Back," by covering the tune.)
McCartney never grew out of his Domino fascination: Thirty years later, he did a version of the 1920s tune "Coquette" on his 1999 album "Run Devil Run" that was closely based on Domino's 1958 recording.
Newman, deeply influenced by New Orleans music in general, often seemed to channeling Domino's sound -- if not his smiling attitude -- in such songs as "Mama Told Me Not to Come" and "Back on My Feet Again."
"I was so influenced by Fats Domino that it's still hard for me to write a song that's not a New Orleans shuffle," Newman told The New York Times in 2008.
He wrote the horn arrangements for "Fats Is Back."
Domino covered Newman, too, with a recording of "Have You Seen My Baby."
Domino's string of hits ended rather abruptly in the early '60s with a change of labels, from Imperial to ABC-Paramount.
The latter forced him to record in Nashville, and the different atmosphere produced just one hit, a cover of the standard "Red Sails in the Sunset."
But the good-natured Domino continued to tour and earn royalties, allowing him to live a comfortable lifestyle -- in New Orleans, of course, where his pink Cadillac could often be seen outside his Ninth Ward house.
When Hurricane Katrina struck in 2005, there was early concern that Domino, who had decided to stay in the Crescent City, had been killed by the storm.
Someone even spray-painted "R.I.P.
Fats -- You will be missed" on his house.
However, he and his family had been rescued by a Coast Guard helicopter.
His estate wasn't as fortunate: "We lost everything," he said at the time.
Some of his belongings were replaced, including his gold records and a National Medal of Arts he'd been awarded in 1998 (from President Bill Clinton).
His white Steinway was refurbished by the Louisiana Music Foundation, which put it on display in the French Quarter in 2013.
Domino remained a steadfast part of the New Orleans scene.
He played a sold-out show at Tipitina's nightclub in 2007 and appeared in an episode of the TV show "Treme" in 2012.
Domino was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1986.
(CNN) Actor Robert Guillaume, best known for his title role in the TV series "Benson," died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles.
He was 89.
His wife Donna Guillaume told CNN he had battled prostate cancer in recent years.
"He kinda went the way everyone wishes they could, surrounded by love and in his sleep," Guillaume said.
She added that her husband really loved making music, entertaining and making people laugh.
He treasured his role as Rafiki in Disney's 1994 animated film "The Lion King," she said.
Robert Guillaume (L) in 'Benson.'
Guillaume starred as the level-headed butler Benson DuBois on the sitcom "Benson" from 1979 - 1986.
He won the Emmy for outstanding lead actor in a comedy for his performance in the role in 1985.
Dozens of TV roles followed, including turns on "A Different World" and "Sports Night."
Read More
Story highlights Cattrall spoke to Piers Morgan She tweeted a fan that she has moved on (CNN) That "Sex and the City" sequel is really not going to happen.
Kim Cattrall, who played Samantha Jones on the long-running HBO hit, is far from friendly with the rest of her former castmates.
"We've never been friends," Cattrall said in an interview with Piers Morgan's "Life Stories" scheduled to air on Monday night.
"We've been colleagues and in some ways it's a very healthy place to be because then you have a clear line between your professional life and relationship and your personal."
" allowfullscreen> The series, which went off the air in 2004, revolved around Sarah Jessica Parker's character, Carrie Bradshaw, and her core group of girlfriends as they navigated life and love in New York.
The subsequent movies were released in 2008 and 2010.
Cattrall has been taking heat from fans who blame her for "Sex and the City 3" being called off.
Read More
Story highlights Pressly posted a photo of the new babies She also announced her pregnancy on Instagram (CNN) Jaime Pressly is doubly blessed.
The "Mom" actress announced Monday on her Instagram account that she has given birth to twin boys.
"They're here," she wrote in a caption with a photo of the twins.
"Introducing our new additions, Leo and Lenon, born October 16th.
#DoubleTrouble."
They're here!
Introducing our new additions, Leo and Lenon, born October 16th.
#DoubleTrouble A post shared by Jaime Pressly (@jaimepressly) on Oct 23, 2017 at 2:00pm PDT The babies are a first for Pressly with longtime boyfriend, Hamzi Hijazi.
The actress is also the mother of a 10-year-old son with former fianc Eric Calvo.
Pressly also used her social media account to announce in June that she was expecting twins.
Read More
Story highlights Faris appeared on "Live with Kelly and Ryan" Pratt wrote the foreword for her new book (CNN) Anna Faris says all is well between her and estranged husband, Chris Pratt.
The actress appeared Monday on "Live with Kelly and Ryan" and talked about Pratt writing the foreword to her new book, "Unqualified."
"We're great and he's amazing and it was so kind of him to do that ," the Mom star, 40, said.
"We're great friends and we always will be.
It's so true, it's so true.
Life is too short."
The book was written before the pair shocked fans in August by announcing their split after eight years of marriage.
Read More
Story highlights The movie opens October 27 Director wanted to pay honor to veterans (CNN) Service members are often silent about their experiences when they return home from war.
"Thank You For Your Service," a new film releasing Friday , aims to give them a voice.
Written and directed by Jason Hall, the drama is based on the book of the same name by journalist David Finkel and tells the story of a group of soldiers struggling to reintegrate into civilian life after returning from tours in Iraq.
Hall told CNN that most civilians don't have a grasp of what service members go through.
"Part of their sacrifice, they feel, is that they are willing to carry it in silence," Hall said.
"They don't want to burden us, and that's an honor and sacrifice."
Read More
Story highlights Billy Joel and his wife, Alexis Joel, welcomed their second daughter on Sunday This is the third daughter for the 68-year-old rocker (CNN) A little over one week after Billy Joel confirmed that he and his fourth wife, Alexis Joel, were pregnant with their second child, the 68-year-old singer has welcomed their bundle of joy.
Alexis gave birth to daughter Remy Anne on Sunday, a representative for the "Piano Man" told CNN.
"Alexis and Remy are doing well and everyone is thrilled," the representative said in a statement.
This is the third daughter for Joel.
The couple's first daughter, Della Rose, was born in August 2015 and Joel also has a daughter, Alexa Ray Joel, 31, from his second marriage to Christie Brinkley, who according to the rep, was in the room during the delivery.
Read More
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) Caution: This post contains spoilers about the latest episode of NBC's "This Is Us."
This is...a twist.
The latest episode of "This Is Us," titled "Brothers," may have appeared to draw its title from a storyline about Jack (Milo Ventimiglia) trying to get his sons, Randall and Kevin, to bond during a wilderness adventure, but the final minutes proved there was much more to it than that.
It turns out, Jack has a brother.
Or had.
It remains unclear if his brother, whom Jack lovingly referred to as Nicky in a flashback, is still alive in the present-day.
All we do know is what little we can gather from those key last moments from the episode.
In the revealing scene, young Jack is in the front seat of his dad's car waiting to get on with their planned fishing trip.
As he sits there impatiently, a small head wearing glasses pops up in the backseat.
(CNN) As part of a small subset of the pop-culture universe that thought "Stranger Things" was nice but nothing special, the second season provoked some trepidation.
How can one characterize whether the Emmy-nominated Netflix phenom lives up to the hype when you felt it was overhyped in the first place?
The result is a second season that replicates and, indeed, enhances the show's central charms -- its group of pubescent nerds, and nostalgic sense of time and place -- while still feeling less compelling with its teenage contingent.
All told, it's an impressive follow-up, if one perhaps burdened by expectations raised by the over-the-moon reaction, to couch it in the fantasy of the era, to the debut.
"Stranger Things 2" has a fair amount of work to do given where season one ended, and that's accomplished pretty seamlessly.
The five boys, for starters, have a new girl, Max (Sadie Sink), to trigger their curiosity and confound them, albeit without quite the impact as the telekinetically gifted Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown), whose return has already been teased, and whose plot is easily the best thing about this second flight.
Meanwhile, Nancy (Natalia Dyer) is still dealing with guilt regarding her friend Barb, Will (Noah Schnapp) is experiencing after-effects of his time in the Upside Down, and his mom Joyce (Winona Ryder) is wracked with concern about him, even as she tests whether it's possible to have a life of her own.
The Duffer Brothers, who created the show, waste little time setting the scene, as the camera reveals Reagan/Bush yard signs and "Terminator" marquees.
It's a time of "Ghostbusters" Halloween costumes, when strange doings around the town are seen by some (in what feels like a dual nod to "Red Dawn" and "The Americans") as evidence of a Soviet invasion.
Read More
Critics, including the President himself, have been quick to point out that the NFL's ratings are down.
But what they won't tell you is that the NFL is down significantly less than the rest of broadcast television.
Through week seven, the NFL is down 5% overall from the same point last year.
That's a troubling drop for the biggest ratings powerhouse on TV, but it seems less dire when you consider that the four major networks are down an average 8% in prime time.
NBC is down 4%, CBS is down 6%, ABC is down 11%, and Fox's prime time viewership dropped 20% through the first month of the new TV season, according to Nielsen data.
And those numbers are down despite the inclusion of live sporting events, which usually bring in big audiences.
The NFL's sluggish viewership may be less a symptom of the league's problems and more about what's happening in the TV environment overall.
The landscape has become incredibly fragmented, thanks to a flood of programming and competition from streaming services and from the internet, not to mention a 24-hour news cycle that comes with a breathtaking amount of content.
Television, Netflix, Hulu and Amazon are all vying for the same eyeballs, and there are no signs that the deluge of programming will ebb any time soon.
The numbers for network TV are also partially tied to the NFL's struggles, since CBS and NBC both broadcast games in prime time on Sunday and on Thursday nights.
"Regardless of the declines, the NFL is still by far the highest rated sport on TV and often the most watched broadcast on TV," said Brian Hughes, a senior vice president at Magna, which monitors audience trends.
"Last year when the ratings were down, it seemed like a shock.
This year looks to be a part of a trend rather than a big disruption."
The league's viewership took a hit last year, which means that not even the mighty NFL is immune to the changing world of TV.
Some observers blamed the drop last season on a number of issues, one of which was a contentious presidential election.
This year, the league's declines have been a focal point for President Trump, who has attacked the NFL over players who kneel during the national anthem to protest police violence.
Executives and observers will continue to watch the NFL's ratings and try to figure out what's causing the falling viewership for the biggest show on TV.
Critics have cited everything from lack of star power at the quarterback position to lopsided games as reasons for the down numbers.
21st Century Fox CEO James Murdoch offered another reason: over-saturation.
"You're asking a lot from customers to watch Thursday," Murdoch said at the Paley International Council Summit in New York on Wednesday.
"They watch a lot more college football game on Saturdays, and then on Sundays, and then on Monday Night Football, etc.
It's a lot.
So I do think that preserving the scarcity value of those events and that audience is something that is worth thinking about."
But as the falling broadcast numbers show, problems around TV ratings may be bigger than just the NFL.
Would you go see "Geostorm "or "The Snowman" -- two box office duds that were savaged by critics and have abysmal scores on Rotten Tomatoes -- if you didn't have to pay full price to watch them in an empty theater?
Regal Cinemas (RGC), one of the largest movie theater chains in the United States, is hoping you might.
The company will experiment with charging more for tickets during peak movie times and less at times when attendance tends to be lighter.
Think of it as Uber-style surge pricing, but for movies.
Regal, partnering with the online ticket service and app Atom Tickets, will try it in several markets next year.
Regal CEO Amy Miles didn't say how many theaters would try it, what the prices would be or whether Regal might use such a model to charge different prices for hits and duds.
But the new pricing plan, if successful, could be just what theater chains need.
Shares of Regal, competitors AMC (AMC), Cinemark (CNK), and big screen operator IMAX (IMAX) have all fallen this year because of poor box office sales.
There's a big debate about whether the high cost of tickets -- not to mention popcorn, soda and other concession stand goodies -- are the industry's biggest problem.
Related: Box office slump hurting AMC theaters and its rivals That might be part of it, and it's the reason another company has recently launched a service called MoviePass that lets people see as many movies as they want for a monthly subscription.
In other words, Netflix for movie theaters.
The big chains are cautiously embracing it.
Miles said in an earnings conference call with analysts Tuesday that Regal is happy to sell tickets to MoviePass at full price, and MoviePass can then offer those tickets to its customers at whatever price it wants.
But Miles ruled out any partnership that would give MoviePass access to lower-priced tickets.
"We will take a wait-and-see approach and we're going to continue to enjoy the benefits of the full priced movie tickets that we're receiving for all MoviePass customers," Miles said.
"What we will not entertain is the discounted ticket arrangement or any participation in our concession sales as part of the arrangement."
Related: Can MoviePass save the multiplex?
Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) itself is a problem for the movie theaters: Why go out and see a mediocre movie when you can sit on the couch and binge the second season of "Stranger Things" instead?
Netflix, along with Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), Hulu and top cable networks have splurged on big budget shows with top actors and directors.
It's why many call this the golden age of television, or peak TV.
Still, there's hope for movie theaters.
It's a simple formula: People will put down their phones and go the multiplex when there's something good to see.
That was clearly the case with the recent horror movie smash hit "It."
The superhero movies "Justice League" and "Thor: Ragnarok" are coming out in November, and the eagerly awaited next installment in the Star Wars saga, "The Last Jedi," is due out just before Christmas.
So there's a good chance people will stop watching Netflix long enough to go spend two hours escaping reality in a movie theater.
Penguin Press announced on Thursday night that it had canceled plans to publish the 2016 installment of the bestselling "Game Change" books after CNN reported five women have accused co-author Mark Halperin of sexual harassment.
"In light of the recent news regarding Mark Halperin, the Penguin Press has decided to cancel our plans to publish a book he was co-authoring on the 2016 election," Penguin Press said in a statement.
HBO had said earlier in the day it had canceled plans to move forward with a miniseries about the 2016 election based on the book.
"HBO is no longer proceeding with the project tied to the untitled book co-authored by Mark Halperin and John Heilemann on the 2016 Presidential election," HBO -- which, like CNN, is owned by Time Warner -- said in a statement.
"HBO has no tolerance for sexual harassment within the company or its productions."
Related: Five women accuse journalist and 'Game Change' co-author Mark Halperin of sexual harassment Other companies and people with whom Halperin has professional relationships are also reacting to the CNN report.
Showtime, for which Halperin has co-hosted the series "The Circus" is "reevaluating" its relationship with Halperin, it said Thursday.
"During Mark's time working with us, we have not seen nor have there been allegations of any untoward behavior," a Showtime spokesperson said in a statement.
"We are aware of these reports and will continue to evaluate all options should we decide to move forward with another season of The Circus.
There is no tolerance for sexual harassment within Showtime and its productions."
On Wednesday, CNN reported that five women said Halperin sexually harassed them while he was political director at ABC News.
"During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me," Halperin said in a statement to CNN Wednesday night.
"I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain.
For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize.
Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation."
The stories of harassment shared with CNN range in nature from propositioning employees for sex to kissing and grabbing one's breasts against her will.
Three of the women who spoke to CNN described Halperin as, without consent, pressing an erection against their bodies while he was clothed.
Halperin denies grabbing a woman's breasts and pressing his genitals against the three women.
MSNBC, where Halperin is a senior political analyst, said on Thursday that Halperin would leave his roles at that network and as an analyst at NBC News "until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood."
Halperin's long time co-author and co-host, John Heilemann, declined to comment when asked about the allegations Halperin is facing and whether he will continue his professional relationship with him.
ABC News, where Halperin was working during the time the alleged harassment took place, sent a note to its staff on Thursday encouraging them to report harassment or misconduct.
"We hold everyone at ABC News accountable for our behavior and how they we conduct ourselves," ABC News president James Goldston wrote in the memo to staff.
"We know we do our best work in an environment where people feel respected, safe and supported.
Harassment or retaliation of any kind is never acceptable."
In a statement provided to CNN early Thursday morning, after CNN's initial story about Halperin was published, ABC News said, "Mark left ABC News over a decade ago, and no complaints were filed during his tenure."
Bill O'Reilly will be dropped by William Morris Endeavor, the talent agency that handles his book deals.
In a statement provided to CNN, a spokesman for WME said that the agency will "no longer represent Bill O'Reilly for future deals."
"It is our fiduciary responsibility to service the existing deals we have under contract, but we will not be working with him moving forward," the statement said.
It is unclear how much longer that deal will last, but it's yet more professional fallout for O'Reilly after the New York Times reported last weekend on a $32 million settlement paid to a woman who accused him of sexual misconduct.
On Monday, O'Reilly was dropped by United Talent Agency.
His television agent there represented him for decades.
The latest revelation came months after O'Reilly was sacked by Fox News, where he reigned as the top-rated host on cable news for years.
The firing came after a separate Times story about multiple settlements paid to women who accused O'Reilly of sexual harassment or inappropriate behavior.
O'Reilly has decried the reports as an effort to remove him from the marketplace.
His representative did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The decision by WME could have implications on a major part of the O'Reilly enterprise.
With several bestselling titles to his name, O'Reilly's success as an author nearly matched his broadcasting prowess.
His "Killing" franchise, a series of history books, have sold millions of copies.
The latest, "Killing England," has topped the New York Times bestseller list for the last three weeks, though it hasn't sold as well as other titles in the series.
Before this week, the book deals were a rare source of stability for O'Reilly.
Advertisers fled his show in droves following the Times' report in April, prompting Fox to let him go.
But Henry Holt, O'Reilly's publisher, has stood by him.
FILE - Lady Gaga is greeted by former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden after performing for students as part of the national "It's On Us" Week of Action at the Cox Pavilion at UNLV on April 7, 2016, in Las Vegas, Nevada.
As stories of sexual assault and harassment continue to make headlines, Lady Gaga and former Vice President Joe Biden have reunited to create a minute-long public service announcement on sexual assault.
The video, posted on Gaga's Twitter account Wednesday, shows the "Till It Happens to You" singer sitting next to Biden with arms resting on his shoulders.
Biden gently taps on her hand as he introduces Gaga as a surviving victim of sexual assault.
Biden says he admires her courage as a "fierce advocate" with a "voice" for those abused.
"It's on us.
It's on everyone to intervene, to stop abuse when they see it and when they hear about it to intervene," Biden says.
Gaga continues by reminding viewers that men too are abused.
"We're here to remind you that it's important to reach out to someone in your life that you can trust and to know that they will be there to help you," she says.
Originally launched by Biden and former President Barack Obama back in 2014, the "It's On Us" campaign works to end sexual assaults on college campuses.
Both Biden and Gaga have been promoting the campaign.
Last year, Biden introduced Gaga's "Til It Happens To You" performance at the 2016 Academy Awards.
The song was featured in the 2015 documentary "The Hunting Ground" and nominated for an Oscar that following year.
Eyes upstairs.
Portia de Rossi, actress Ellen DeGeneres and singer Katy Perry attend the 55th Annual GRAMMY Awards at STAPLES Center on February 10, 2013 in Los Angeles, California.
DeGeneres is facing criticism for a birthday tweet to Perry.
In post Harvey Weinstein America it appears no one is safe... not even Ellen DeGeneres.
DeGeneres caused a stir of disapproval on social media after wishing singer Katy Perry a happy birthday Wednesday.
The tweet showcased a well-traveled photo of DeGeneres ogling Perry's bosom at the 55th Grammy Awards.
The tweet read "Happy Birthday @KatyPerry!
It's time to bring out the big balloons."
It showed DeGeneres gasping over Perry's cleavage, wearing her iconic mint green Gucci dress at the 2013 Grammy Awards.
Some slammed the tweet as ill-timed and tone deaf in the wake of recent sexual harassment claims that in recent days have dogged everyone from Weinstein to former President George H.W.
Bush to former NBC News analyst Mark Halperin.
DeGeneres was one of the many celebs who spoke out following the Weinstein scandal, tweeting #metoo, a movement used to rally again sexual assault and harassment.
Actor Michael Rapaport was among several who tweeted disapproval, suggesting the backlash would have been more intense had a man made a similar remark.
DeGeneres has not yet responded to the criticism.
Here's the strange thing about last month's Emmys: The biggest victor didn't take home a trophy.
Nobody expected Shannon Purser, nominated for her brief turn as the eminently sensible, ill-fated high school student Barb on "Stranger Things," to win.
Then again, fewer expected her to be nominated.
Purser's guest-actress nod marked a fitting triumph of sorts for a show built around oddball underdogs and kids playing kids' roles.
It also spoke to the sense of loyalty coursing through a drama that celebrates friendship as the key to slaying monsters.
The sci-fi breakout that turned TV and the Emmys upside-down last year returns to Netflix for a second season Friday in a bid to eek out more unlikely wins.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) The 1980s-set Duffer Brothers' sleeper hit landed, at least on the surface, as an ode to Steven Spielberg's "E.T."
glory days, with screeching echoes of "The Goonies" and "Gremlins."
But nostalgia alone doesn't explain the generations-wide devotion to the show, whose first season centered on the search for Will Byers a 12-year-old geek sucked into a netherworld known as the Upside Down.
Will's fellow Dungeons & Dragons-loving buddies, Mike, Lucas and Dustin led the charge, peddling their bikes furiously while battling schoolhouse bullies and a government conspiracy.
Winona Ryder, as Will's unhinged lioness of a mother, and David Harbour, as a haunted small town police chief, turned in career-best performances as the two adult believers who found hope in blinking Christmas lights.
But Millie Bobby Brown, who played Eleven, the short-haired, Eggo-loving forgotten child with fearsome telekinetic powers, shined brightest.
Eleven appeared to exit as a martyr who disintegrated while saving her buddies from the dreaded Demogorgon (the kids D&D-inspired nickname for the monster).
But a hint near end of Season 1 and Season 2 previews suggest her number isn't yet up.
'Late Night': Anna Faris Dishes on Her Podcast Advice Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) It's unclear whether the same could be said for Barb.
But fans likely won't give up rooting for her return.
Stranger things, after all, have happened.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
Check out the latest photos of your favorite celebrities.
Video Gabrielle Union shares a stalker story from her collection of essays We're Going to Need More Wine before Jimmy and Chef Michael Symon surprises her with some proper Cleveland barbecue in honor of Dwyane Wade's...
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video 'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP's Opinion of Trump UP NEXT Seth Meyers discusses what some Republicans think of President Donald Trump, including Sen. Jeff Flake, Ariz., and Sen. Bob Corker, Tenn.
Jimmy Fallon teams up with Jessica Alba against JB Smoove and The Roots' Tariq Trotter for a game of "Catchphrase."
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT "Street Science" host Kevin Delaney performs some Halloween-themed experiments with Jimmy Fallon, including exploding a pumpkin and shooting toilet paper through the entire "Tonight Show" studio.
'Late Night': Megyn Kelly on Why She Spoke Out on Bill O'Reilly Seth Meyers talks with Megyn Kelly, who talks about why she directly addressed Bill O'Reilly and his sexual harassment allegations on a recent broadcast of her show.
In an exclusive deleted scene from "Stranger Things," Barb comes back from the Upside Down to confront Mike, Lucas, Dustin and Eleven about leaving her there.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 1, 2016) A New York City hotel is about to take Netflix-and-chill to a whole new level.
In honor of the season 2 premiere of Netflix's "Stranger Things" on Friday, the Gregory Hotel in midtown is offering an appropriately named "ex-stream-ly cozy package" for die-hard fans to binge-watch the show, according to the hotels website.
The package includes an in-room streaming service, and the room comes decked out in "Stranger Things" dcor, complete with colorful Christmas lights and a wall tapestry to display Will's message from the Upside Down.
The bed is dressed in a themed blanket and pillow.
Special treats are available to enjoy while watching the eerie smash hit.
Guests can chow down on Elevens favorite food, Eggo waffles, or sip on a Healthy Skoops Sleep Protein to fight off show-induced nightmares.
Don't forget the canned House Wine.
Photo credit: Gregory Hotel A "Friends dont lie" souvenir mug is also included for guests to take home.
Booking rates start at $249 per night and run through Aug. 30, 2018.
LOS ANGELES, CA - JANUARY 2014 Singer/songwriters Tamar Braxton and Vincent Herbert attend the 56th GRAMMY Awards at Staples Center on Jan.26, 2014 in Los Angeles, California.
Braxton has filed to divorce her husband Herbert, who is also her manager.
R&B singer Tamar Braxton has filed to divorce her husband Vincent Herbert, who is also her manager.
Braxton filed for divorce this week in Los Angeles, citing irreconcilable differences.
They were married in 2008 and the documents say they separated this month.
They are parents of 4-year-old Logan Herbert.
Braxton is seeking joint custody of their son but wants Logan to live with her.
Braxton rose to fame in 2011 on "Braxton Family Values," the WEtv reality series featuring Grammy-winning singer Toni Braxton and her four sisters.
The show helped boost Tamar Braxton's music career, earning her Grammy nominations.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) The singer and Herbert, who discovered Lady Gaga and aided in her career, appear in the spin-off WEtv show "Tamar & Vince."
Its fifth season will debut Nov. 9.
The LAPD has launched an investigation of Harvey Weinstein involving a possible sexual assault in 2013.
Over 40 women have accused Weinstein of sexual harassment or assault.
High-powered Hollywood executives.
A celebrity chef.
A doctor working with young Olympic athletes.
These are among the powerful men that have recently been accused of sexual misconduct as waves of women come forward to tell their stories.
Thousands of women have shared their stories of harassment and assault in blog posts, statements to journalists and as part of the viral #MeToo social media movement.
Many said they didnt speak up about their experiences sooner because they felt ashamed, afraid it would end their careers or afraid for their safety.
Here are some of the powerful men who have been accused of sexual harassment, abuse or both.
The allegations have not been confirmed by NBC.
Harvey Weinstein, Hollywood producer More than 60 women have come forward to accuse Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein of decades of sexual harassment and assault.
Actresses Gwyneth Paltrow, Angelina Jolie and Mira Sorvino are among those who made their stories public in exposes published by The New York Times and The New Yorker.
The women described years of Weinstein's unwanted sexual advances in detail, alleging acts that in some cases included groping or rape.
In 2015 Audio Recording, Weinstein Admits to Groping Model Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein admits to groping an Italian model in a recording made by police in 2015, which was obtained by The New Yorker.
The New York Police Department never charged Weinstein with a crime.
Weinsteins spokesperson released a statement on Oct. 10, saying Weinstein denies any allegations of non-consensual sex.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 11, 2017) After the allegations were published, the movie mogul was fired from The Weinstein Company, which he co-founded, and removed from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
The New York State Attorney General announced a civil rights investigation into The Weinstein Company to ascertain whether any civil rights and anti-discrimination laws were broken and police investigations were opened in Los Angeles, New York and London.
Weinstein's wife, fashion designer Georgina Chapman, announced she was leaving him on Oct. 10.
Any allegations of non-consensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein," Weinstein's spokesperson said in a statement.
Weinstein also responded to the allegations by actress Lupita Nyongo, which included claims that Weinstein wanted to take off his pants while she gave him a massage.
He also said at a later meeting, "If I wanted to be an actress, then I had to be willing to" go up to a hotel room with him, hinting at a proposition of sex, she recalled.
"Weinstein has a different recollection of the events, but believes Lupita is a brilliant actress and a major force for the industry," his spokesperson said in a statement.
"Last year, she sent a personal invitation to Mr. Weinstein to see her in her Broadway show 'Eclipsed.'"
James Toback, filmmaker More than 200 women, including actress Julianne Moore, have accused filmmaker James Toback of acting inappropriately with them.
At least 38 women claimed to have been sexually harassed by Toback in a report published by The Los Angeles Times on Sunday.
Since then, 193 additional women have contacted the Times to talk about Toback, the reporter said on Twitter.
Harvey Weinstein Ousted From His Production Company Media mogul Harvey Weinstein was fired from the company he co-founded days after The New York Times published a report on decades of sexual harassment allegations against him.
(Published Monday, Oct. 9, 2017) The women's allegations depict a pattern of behavior, with many of the women saying Toback approached them in New York or Los Angeles, offering them movie roles.
He would then allegedly invite the woman to a private meeting, where he would ask her explicit questions about her sexual history and often to remove her clothes, the Times reported.
Many of the women interviewed said Toback dry-humped them or masturbated in front of them.
Toback, 72, has denied all of the allegations.
He told the Times that he had never met any of the women, or if he had it "was for five minutes and (I) have no recollection."
Roy Price, Amazon Studios executive Roy Price resigned from his position as the head of Amazons streaming service after sexual harassment claims, an Amazon spokesperson confirmed to NBC News.
Isa Dick Hackett, executive producer of the Amazon show The Man in the High Castle," said that when she met Price for the first time in 2015, he repeatedly propositioned her as they shared a cab with another Amazon executive to an Amazon staff party, she told The Hollywood Reporter.
Hackett said that Price told her: You will love my dick."
'Late Night' Women Writers Respond to Harvey Weinstein Seth Meyers turns it over to the women writers of "Late Night," who respond to the claims of sexual harassment against movie producer Harvey Weinstein.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 10, 2017) Price was initially suspended from Amazon and resigned days later.
Hackett said the Weinstein scandal spurred her to share her story.
NBC reached out to Price for comment but did not receive an immediate response.
John Besh, celebrity chef The New Orleans celebrity chef stepped down from the restaurant group bearing his name on Oct. 25 after 25 women, current and former employees, alleged sexual harassment by male co-workers and bosses, The Times-Picayune reported.
One of the nine women who agreed to be named, Madie Robison, said she endured uninvited touching from male coworkers at Besh Restaurant Group, as well as frequent requests by her boss, Besh, to discuss his sex life.
American Public Television has pulled both "Chef John Besh's New Orleans" and "Chef John Besh's Family Table" in light of the allegations against Besh and his company, the network said in a statement to NBC Tuesday.
"As of today, we have withdrawn distribution of these two series," spokesman Jamie Haines wrote.
Reporter Speaks Out About Movie Mogul Allegations For the first time journalist Lauren Sivan has spoken out about the Harvey Weinstein sexual misconduct allegations, saying she was lured to a New York restaurant by the movie mogul, where he exposed himself to her.
Erica Byfield reports.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 10, 2017) In a written statement to NBC, Besh apologized to employees who found my behavior as unacceptable as I do.
Chris Savino, former Nickelodeon producer Chris Savino, creator of the animated series "The Loud House," was fired from Nickelodeon after a dozen women claimed that he made unwanted sexual advances to co-workers, Cartoon Brew reported.
He is also accused of threatening to blacklist women from the industry after the end of consensual relationships.
After the report came out, Anne Walker Farrell, a director on Netflix show "Bojack Horseman," released a series of tweets claiming that Savino had harassed her 15 years ago.
Farrell wrote that Savino offered her a "'mentorship' that devolved into lewd messages, etc.'"
Savino responded to the allegations on Facebook on Monday.
I am deeply sorry and ashamed, he wrote.
Although it was never my intention, I now understand that the impact of my actions and communications created an unacceptable environment."
Larry Nassar, Olympic doctor Two-time Olympic medalist McKayla Maroney, 21, alleged this month that the USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar molested her for years starting when she was in her early teens.
Nasser is currently in jail in Michigan awaiting sentencing on a charge of possessing child pornography, to which he pleaded guilty.
He is also on trial for separate criminal sexual conduct charges and has been sued by more than 125 women who allege abuse.
Nassar has pleaded not guilty to assault charges and is in mediation on civil suits.
Nassar's attorney responded to Moroney's allegations with no comment, citing a gag order over outstanding proceedings.
His lawyers have called the earlier allegations against him "patently false and untrue" and said "his techniques were medically accepted and appropriate."
Robert Scoble, tech blogger At least three women have accused the high-profile tech writer and evangelist of sexual and verbal harassment, starting with a blog post by journalist Quinn Norton, who wrote that he assaulted her at a hacker conference in the early 2010s.
Another woman, Michelle Greer, who worked with Scoble in the past, told Buzzfeed that he groped her at a tech conference in 2010.
Sarah Kunst, creator of workout app ProDay, said on Twitter that Scoble acted inappropriately with her.
Scoble resigned from his virtual reality startup, Transformation Group, after the allegations.
He apologized in a Facebook post on Friday.
"Im deeply sorry to the people Ive caused pain to," he wrote.
"I know I have behaved in ways that were inappropriate."
But on Tuesday, he wrote on his blog that his accusers "used grains of truth to sell false narrative."
Lockhart Steele, former Vox Media editorial director Vox Medias editorial director Lockhart Steele, former CEO and founder of Curbed Network, was fired following sexual harassment allegations by a former employee.
Lockhart Steele was terminated effective immediately, CEO Jim Bankoff wrote in a memo to staff on Oct. 19, Variety reported.
He admitted engaging in conduct that is inconsistent with our core values and is not tolerated at Vox Media.
The claim was reportedly made by former employee Eden Rohatensky in a blog post on Medium, according to The Awl.
Rohatensky worked at Vox Media as a web developer from June 2014 to August 2015, according to LinkedIn.
NBC reached out to Steele for comment but received no immediate response.
Vox Media told NBC they could not comment on the ongoing investigation.
(NBC's parent company, NBCUniversal, is an investor in Vox.)
Terry Richardson, fashion photographer For years, Terry Richardson has faced allegations of inappropriate behavior in his work as a fashion photographer, in which he's taken pictures of celebrities like Beyonc, Lady Gaga and Miley Cyrus.
These accusations are resurfacing after Cond Nast International, which publishes magazines such as Vogue, GQ and Vanity Fair, announced Monday that it would no longer work with Richardson, The Telegraph reported.
In 2001, model Liskula Cohen said Richardson asked her to get completely naked during a Vogue photoshoot, while he was also naked, and pretend to perform a sex act on another man, according to Complex.
Many other women alleged sexual abuse by Richardson to Jezebel under the condition of anonymity for fear of losing their jobs.
Richardson's agent did not immediately respond to NBC's request for comment but Richardson has previously addressed what he called the "rumors" of his behavior.
I collaborated with consenting adult women who were fully aware of the nature of the work, and as is typical with any project, everyone signed releases," Richardson wrote in a 2014 essay on HuffPost.
Andy Signore, web series creator After the Harvey Weinstein scandal exploded, at least five women posted on social media that they had experienced sexual harassment by Andy Signore, creator of fan site Screen Junkies and the Honest Trailers film-parody franchise.
One woman wrote on Twitter that Signore offered to masturbate in front of her.
Another said he tried to sexually assault her several times and threatened to fire her boyfriend, who worked at Screen Junkies, if she told anyone, Variety reported.
After the accusations became public, Screen Junkies said in a statement on Twitter that it had fired Signore.
"There is no justification for this egregious and intolerable behavior," read the statement.
NBC reached out to Signore for comment but did not receive an immediate response.
Bill OReilly, former Fox News host In February, Fox News renewed the contract of host Bill O'Reilly one month after he paid $32 million to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit, The New York Times reported.
The settlement paid to Lis Wiehl, a longtime Fox News legal analyst, who accused him of forcing her into a nonconsensual relationship," was the latest in a succession of settlements made by O'Reilly.
He was fired from Fox News in April.
O'Reilly was dropped by his talent agency, United Talent Agency, Monday night, a source told NBC News.
A source familiar with the situation said were parting ways after his current contract expires at the end of 2017.
A statement from Fox News parent company 21st Century Fox said it knew that O'Reilly had settled the lawsuit with Wiehl, but didn't know the terms.
"His new contract... added protections for the company specifically aimed at harassment," the statement said.
21st Century Fox has said the network it has worked to change the culture at Fox News.
The founder of Fox News, Roger Ailes, resigned from the network last year after several women, including Kelly, alleged sexual misconduct.
He died in May at the age of 77.
OReilly has blamed the media for reports of his alleged sexual misconduct, writing on Twitter Monday that the Times report was an attack for political purposes.
"Once again, The New York Times has maliciously smeared Bill O'Reilly," O'Reilly's attorney said to NBC in a written statement.
He pointed out that "in the more than 20 years Bill O'Reilly worked at Fox News, not one complaint was filed against him with the Human Resources Department or Legal Department by a coworker."
But on NBCs Megyn Kelly Today, Kelly refuted that claim, saying she had complained about OReilly while they were both working at Fox News, and blasted the culture of silencing sexual harassment victims at the network and beyond.
George H.W.
Bush, former president In a Tuesday Instagram post that has since been deleted, actress Heather Lind recounted the story of when she met former president George H.W.
Bush four years ago to promote one of her TV shows.
"He touched me from behind from his wheelchair with his wife Barbara Bush by his side," Lind wrote.
"He told me a dirty joke.
And then, all the while being photographed, touched me again."
The former president apologized on Wednesday.
President Bush would never under any circumstance intentionally cause anyone distress, and he most sincerely apologizes if his attempt at humor offended Ms. Lind, Jim McGrath, a Bush spokesman, said in a statement.
Leon Wieseltier, magazine editor A number of women who worked with prominent literary editor Leon Wieseltier at The New Republic magazine have accused him of sexual harassment, The New York Times reported.
Wieseltier worked at the magazine for more than three decades and was set to head a new magazine to launch next week.
After learning of the allegations, the organization that was backing the new magazine pulled out of the project.
"Upon receiving information related to past inappropriate workplace conduct, Emerson Collective ended its business relationship with Leon Wieseltier, including a journal planned for publication under his editorial direction," the Emerson Collective told The New York Times Tuesday.
Wieseltier apologized in an email to the Times on Tuesday.
"For my offenses against some of my colleagues in the past I offer a shaken apology and ask for their forgiveness," he wrote.
"The women with whom I worked are smart and good people.
I am ashamed to know that I made any of them feel demeaned and disrespected.
I assure them I will not waste this reckoning."
Mark Halperin, political journalist Allegations against "Game Change" author Mark Halperin surfaced in a CNN report, which quoted five anonymous women as saying Halperin sexually harassed them when he was a top political journalist at ABC News.
Halperin, who has since become a senior political analyst and frequent contributor for NBC News and MSNBC, acknowledged that he had engaged in "inappropriate" conduct.
In a statement to CNN, Halperin apologized for pursuing "relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me."
He denied inappropriate touching.
Halperin left ABC News in 2007 after two decades with the network.
ABC News said no complaints were filed during his time there.
Four of the women have since left ABC News.
We find the story and the allegations very troubling," NBC News said in a statement.
"Mark Halperin is leaving his role as a contributor until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood.
A cosplayer dressed as Wonder Woman attends the 2017 New York Comic Con on Oct. 8, 2017, in New York City.
Step aside, Harley Quinn.
This year's new queen of Halloween is none other than the shield-wielding Amazon princess, Wonder Woman, according to Google.
There have been more searches for Wonder Woman costumes than any other Halloween ensemble this October, according to the search engine's Frightgeist tool.
The movie heroine's not alone, though.
Google has rounded up search data to determine the most popular Halloween costumes across the country.
Here's the top 10: 1.
Wonder Woman Changes are high youll see at least a few versions of this warrior princess walking the streets this Halloween.
Wonder Woman dethroned last years favorite, Harley Quinn of Suicide Squad.
Wonder Woman costumes were most searched in Parkersburg, West Virginia; Bozeman, Montana, and Abilene, Texas.
2.
Harley Quinn Although she was bumped to second place, the supervillain played by Margot Robbie in the 2016 film "Suicide Squad" is a still a top costume choice this year.
3.
Clown Always a classic, this year might see an extra boost in clown costumes thanks to the remake of horror film "It."
The costumes rounding out the top 10 range from the classic witch and zombie to animals like rabbits and mice.
4.
Unicorn 5.
Rabbit 6.
Witch 7.
Mouse 8.
Pirate 9.
Zombie 10.
Dinosaur Olympians' Favorite Halloween Candy With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) The list goes on to include the top 100 costumes nationwide.
Movie characters make up one-fifth of searches, followed by animals at 12 percent and comic book characters at 11 percent.
New additions to the top 100 list this year include emoji, Thing 1 of Dr. Seuss' "Cat in the Hat," and outfits from "Moana," "It" and "Stranger Things."
Not all costumes will be popular forever.
These are the costumes that saw the biggest drop in rankings since last year: 1.
Maleficent 2.
Knight 3.
Frankenstein 4.
Evil Queen 5.
Snow White Google also lets you search the most popular costumes in your area with a map tool.
The top costume this year in Casper, Wyoming, for example, is an elephant, while people in Anchorage, Alaska, are looking for physician costumes.
If youre still figuring out what you want to be for Halloween, the costume wizard tool can suggest an outfit for you based on your desired levels of spookiness, trendiness and uniqueness.
Man Builds Two-Story Star Wars Transport Replica
In this Feb. 5, 2017 file photo, singer Lady Gaga performs during the halftime show of the NFL Super Bowl 51 football game between the New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons, in Houston, Texas.
Just in time for Halloween, a new wax figure of Lady Gaga has Twitterverse cowering in fright.
Photos of the wax figure of the singer on display in Peru went viral and isare drawing tons of reviews... and they're pretty much all bad.
According to Billboard, the sculpture went up in the Lima museum last week.
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement In appearance, Fats Domino wasn't a typical a teen idol.
He stood 5-feet-5 and weighed more than 200 pounds, with a wide, boyish smile and a haircut as flat as an album cover.
But Domino sold more than 110 million records, with hits including "Blueberry Hill," ''Ain't That a Shame" and other standards of rock 'n' roll.
Domino, the amiable rock 'n' roll pioneer whose steady, pounding piano and easy baritone helped change popular music even as it honored the grand, good-humored tradition of the Crescent City, died early Tuesday.
He was 89.
Mark Bone, chief investigator with the Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, coroner's office, said Domino died of natural causes early Tuesday morning.
His dynamic performance style and warm vocals drew crowds for five decades.
One of his show-stopping stunts was playing the piano while standing, throwing his body against it with the beat of the music and bumping the grand piano across the stage.
Domino's 1956 version of "Blueberry Hill" was selected for the Library of Congress' National Recording Registry of historic sound recordings worthy of preservation.
The preservation board noted that Domino insisted on performing the song despite his producer's doubts, adding that Domino's "New Orleans roots are evident in the Creole inflected cadences that add richness and depth to the performance."
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement.
Domino became a global star but stayed true to his hometown, where his fate was initially unknown after Hurricane Katrina struck in August 2005.
It turned out that he and his family were rescued by boat from his home, where he lost three pianos and dozens of gold and platinum records, along with other memorabilia.
Many wondered if he would ever return to the stage.
Scheduled to perform at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in 2006, he simply tipped his hat to thousands of cheering fans.
His friend Haydee Ellis said then that Domino was "OK, but he doesn't feel up to performing."
But in May 2007, he was back, performing at Tipitina's music club in New Orleans.
Fans cheered and some cried as Domino played "I'm Walkin'," ''Ain't It a Shame," ''Shake, Rattle and Roll," ''Blueberry Hill" and a host of other hits.
That performance was a highlight during several rough years.
After losing their home and almost all their belongings to the floods, his wife of more than 50 years, Rosemary, died in April 2008.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Domino moved to the New Orleans suburb of Harvey after the storm but would often visit his publishing house, an extension of his old home in the Lower 9th Ward, inspiring many with his determination to stay in the city he loved.
"Fats embodies everything good about New Orleans," his friend David Lind said in a 2008 interview.
"He's warm, fun-loving, spiritual, creative and humble.
You don't get more New Orleans than that."
The son of a violin player, Antoine Domino Jr. was born Feb. 26, 1928, to a family that grew to include nine children.
Antoine and Rosemary Domino raised eight children in the same ramshackle neighborhood where he grew up, but they did it in style in a white mansion, trimmed in pink, yellow and lavender.
The front double doors opened into an atrium with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling and ivory dominos set in a white marble floor.
As a youth, he taught himself popular piano styles ragtime, blues and boogie-woogie after his cousin left an old upright in the house.
Fats Waller and Albert Ammons were early influences.
He quit school at age 14, and worked days in a factory while playing and singing in local juke joints at night.
In 1949, Domino was playing at the Hideaway Club for $3 a week when he was signed by Imperial record company.
'Late Night': Anna Faris Dishes on Her Podcast Advice Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) He recorded his first song, "The Fat Man," in the back of a tiny French Quarter recording studio.
"They call me the Fat Man, because I weigh 200 pounds," he sang.
"All the girls, they love me, 'cause I know my way around."
"Fat Man" sold more than 1 million copies and has been called the first rock 'n' roll record.
That's not a unique claim in the music world, but Domino, with help from songwriting partner Dave Bartholomew, shaped the new genre by providing Imperial with rhythm and blues hits for the next five years, including "Rockin' Chair" and "You Done Me Wrong."
In 1955, he broke into the white pop charts with "Ain't it a Shame" in which he sang the lyrics as "ain't that a shame."
It was covered blandly by Pat Boone as "Ain't That a Shame" and rocked out years later under that title by Cheap Trick and many others.
Domino enjoyed a parade of successes through the early 1960s, including "Be My Guest" and "I'm Ready."
Another hit, "I'm Walkin,'" became the debut single for Ricky Nelson.
Domino appeared in the rock 'n' roll film "The Girl Can't Help It" and was among the first black performers to be featured in popular music shows, starring with Buddy Holly and the Everly Brothers.
He also helped bridge rock 'n' roll and other styles even country/western, recording Hank Williams' "Jambalaya" and Bobby Charles' "Walkin' to New Orleans."
Like many of his peers, Domino's popularity tapered off in the 1960s as British and psychedelic rock held sway.
His last song to reach the charts was a 1968 remake of the Beatles' "Lady Madonna," featuring a pumping piano riff in the Domino style.
Olympians' Favorite Halloween Candy With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) Domino told Ebony magazine that he stopped recording because companies wanted him to update his style.
"I refused to change," he said.
"I had to stick to my own style that I've always used or it just wouldn't be me."
But his old recordings kept selling, his concerts kept selling out, and his influence continued to be felt.
You could hear it in Bob Dylan's "Nothing Was Delivered," in numerous songs by Randy Newman, and, at least in spirit, on Van Morrison's horn-driven tribute, "Domino."
A Philadelphia chicken plucker named Ernest Evans changed his name to a parody of Domino's, Chubby Checker, and found dance floor immortality performing "The Twist."
Domino sang and played in Las Vegas for more than 10 years, where he passed time between shows in the gambling room.
In the 1974 Ebony interview, he said he lost more than $2 million before he was cured of the gambling habit in 1972.
In 1988, all of New Orleans seemed to be talking about him after he reportedly paid cash in one pop for two Cadillacs and a $130,000 Rolls-Royce.
When the salesman asked if he wanted to call his bank about financing, Domino smiled and said, "I am the bank."
In 1998, he became the first purely rock 'n' roll musician to be awarded the National Medal for the Arts.
But he cited his age and didn't make the trip to the White House to get the medal from President Clinton.
That was typical.
Aside from rare appearances in New Orleans, he dodged the spotlight in his later years, refusing to appear in public or even to give interviews.
Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Fats Domino, the amiable rock 'n' roll pioneer whose steady, pounding piano and easy baritone helped change popular music while honoring the traditions of the Crescent City, has died.
He was 89.
Mark Bone, chief investigator with the Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, coroner's office, said Domino died of natural causes at 3:30 a.m. Tuesday.
In appearance, he was no Elvis Presley.
He stood 5-feet-5 and weighed more than 200 pounds, with a wide, boyish smile and a haircut as flat as an album cover.
But Domino sold more than 110 million records, with hits including "Blueberry Hill," ''Ain't It a Shame" in which he sang the lyrics as "ain't that a shame" and other standards of rock 'n' roll.
In a tweet Wednesday, New Orleans-born singer and actor Harry Connick Jr. credited the musician for "paving the way for New Orleans piano players... see you on top on that blueberry hill in the sky," he wrote.
Actor Wendell Pierce also mourned the loss of his hero of social media, tweeting: "Words fail me in this moment of deep heartache and sadness.
We have lost a legend.
One of my heroes.
New Orleans' Fats domino is dead."
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement.
His dynamic performance style and warm vocals drew crowds for five decades.
One of his show-stopping stunts was playing the piano while standing, throwing his body against it with the beat of the music and bumping the grand piano across the stage.
Domino's 1956 version of "Blueberry Hill" was selected for the Library of Congress' National Recording Registry of historic sound recordings worthy of preservation.
The preservation board noted that Domino insisted on performing the song despite his producer's doubts, adding that Domino's "New Orleans roots are evident in the Creole inflected cadences that add richness and depth to the performance."
Domino became a global star but stayed true to his hometown, where his fate was initially unknown after Hurricane Katrina struck in August 2005.
It turned out that he and his family were rescued by boat from his home, where he lost three pianos and dozens of gold and platinum records, along with other memorabilia.
In Memoriam: Rock n' Roll Legend Fats Domino Dies at 89 Many wondered if he would ever return to the stage.
Scheduled to perform at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in 2006, he simply tipped his hat to thousands of cheering fans.
But in May 2007, he was back, performing at Tipitina's music club in New Orleans.
Fans cheered and some cried as Domino played "I'm Walkin'," ''Ain't It a Shame," ''Shake, Rattle and Roll," ''Blueberry Hill" and a host of other hits.
That performance was a highlight during several rough years.
After losing their home and almost all their belongings to the floods, his wife of more than 50 years, Rosemary, died in April 2008.
Domino moved to the New Orleans suburb of Harvey after the storm but would often visit his publishing house, an extension of his old home in the Lower 9th Ward, inspiring many with his determination to stay in the city he loved.
"Fats embodies everything good about New Orleans," his friend David Lind said in a 2008 interview.
"He's warm, fun-loving, spiritual, creative and humble.
You don't get more New Orleans than that."
The son of a violin player, Antoine Domino Jr. was born on Feb. 26, 1928, to a family that grew to include nine children.
As a youth, he taught himself popular piano styles ragtime, blues and boogie-woogie after his cousin left an old upright in the house.
Fats Waller and Albert Ammons were early influences.
Top Celebs: 'Grace Jones: Bloodlight And Bami' Premiere He quit school at age 14, and worked days in a factory while playing and singing in local juke joints at night.
In 1949, Domino was playing at the Hideaway Club for $3 a week when he was signed by Imperial record company.
He recorded his first song, "The Fat Man," in the back of a tiny French Quarter recording studio.
"They call me the Fat Man, because I weigh 200 pounds," he sang.
"All the girls, they love me, 'cause I know my way around."
In 1955, he broke into the white pop charts with "Ain't it a Shame," covered blandly by Pat Boone as "Ain't That a Shame" and rocked out decades later by Cheap Trick.
Domino enjoyed a parade of successes through the early 1960s, including "Be My Guest" and "I'm Ready."
Another hit, "I'm Walkin,'" became the debut single for Ricky Nelson.
Domino appeared in the rock 'n' roll film "The Girl Can't Help It" and was among the first black performers to be featured in popular music shows, starring with Buddy Holly and the Everly Brothers.
He also helped bridge rock 'n' roll and other styles even country/western, recording Hank Williams' "Jambalaya" and Bobby Charles' "Walkin' to New Orleans."
Like many of his peers, Domino's popularity tapered off in the 1960s as British and psychedelic rock held sway.
Domino told Ebony magazine that he stopped recording because companies wanted him to update his style.
"I refused to change," he said.
"I had to stick to my own style that I've always used or it just wouldn't be me."
Antoine and Rosemary Domino raised eight children in the same ramshackle neighborhood where he grew up, but they did it in style in a white mansion, trimmed in pink, yellow and lavender.
The front double doors opened into an atrium with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling and ivory dominos set in a white marble floor.
In 1988, all of New Orleans seemed to be talking about him after he reportedly paid in cash for two Cadillacs and a $130,000 Rolls-Royce.
When the salesman asked if he wanted to call his bank about financing, Domino smiled and said, "I am the bank."
In 1998, he became the first purely rock 'n' roll musician to be awarded the National Medal for the Arts.
But he cited his age and didn't make the trip to the White House to get the medal from President Clinton.
That was typical.
Aside from rare appearances in New Orleans, he dodged the spotlight in his later years, refusing to appear in public or even to give interviews.
Other celebrities also took to social media to mourn his death and pay tribute to Domino.
Bob Marley's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame was vandalized.
Someone vandalized Bob Marley's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and it will cost about $3,000 to repair it.
The vandalism was discovered on Monday, said Ana Martinez of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce.
"It had been pounded on with what appears to be a sledgehammer or something heavy like that, totally destroying it," Martinez said.
She said the star will be repaired Wednesday.
Stars Honored on Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2017 "This is considered vandalism to a State Historic Landmark,'' she said.
"It will be repaired by the Hollywood Historic Trust and will cost nearly $3,000 to repair it."
Martinez tweeted a photo of the damaged star, along with the message: "Why would anyone do this to Bob Marley's star?
Help me understand.
The Walk of Fame is a State registered Historic landmark!
Disrespectful."
The reggae artist died in 1981.
He was posthumously awarded the star, located at 7080 Hollywood Blvd., in 2001.
Another star was notably destroyed by a sledgehammer last October: President Donald Trump's.
An heir to the Otis Elevator Company fortune surrendered to police, saying he attacked the star as "an act of civil disobedience."
Man Who Smashed Trump's Star: 'It Was an Act of Civil Disobedience'
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots UP NEXT Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
Jimmy Fallon chats with Lin-Manuel Miranda, whose son doesn't exactly enjoy his Tony Award-winning musical "Hamilton," but loves his new song for Puerto Rico.
Seth Meyers takes a look at two financial backers of the Trump campaign and the far-right candidates Donald Trump is endorsing as president.
Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
In support of continued Puerto Rico relief and recovery operations, NBC New York aired a special, behind-the-scenes look at the making of Lin-Manuel Mirandas hit single "Almost Like Praying," benefiting the Hispanic Federations UNIDOS hurricane relief fund.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) Lin-Manuel Miranda Gives Behind-the-Scenes Look at Making of 'Almost Like Praying' In support of continued Puerto Rico relief and recovery operations, NBC New York aired a special, behind-the-scenes look at the making of Lin-Manuel Mirandas hit single "Almost Like Praying," benefiting the Hispanic Federations UNIDOS hurricane relief fund.
For viewers who missed the special during its live airing, the special can be seen in the video player above.
Lin-Manuel Miranda: Coqui Frog Is a Metaphor for PR News 4's Darlene Rodriguez sits down with Lin-Manuel Miranda to hear why he thinks a tiny little frog is the metaphor for the people of Puerto Rico.
Don't miss "Almost Like Praying," a 30-minute behind-the-scenes special on the making of Miranda's hit single.
The special English-language broadcast airs Tuesday at 7 p.m.
ET on NBC 4 New York and will be streamed live on NBCNewYork.com.
All proceeds will go to help hurricane victims and the recovery efforts through fellow community and civic organizations in Puerto Rico.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) One hundred percent of the proceeds will help hurricane victims and the recovery efforts through fellow community and civic organizations in Puerto Rico.
Additionally, viewers can also donate through the following means: To donate via text, compose a new text message for number 41444.
Type UNIDOS (space) YOUR AMOUNT (space) and YOUR NAME.
(For example: Unidos 100 John Doe) Then press "send" and click on the link to complete your donation.
To donate via website, visit www.hispanicfederation.org/donate and select "Hurricane Relief Effort" from the drop-down menu.
To donate in person, visit any Popular Community Bank branch.
Account name: Hurricane Relief Effort.
Checking account number 6810893500.
Carson Daly is mourning the passing of his stepfather.
Carson Daly's stepfather Richard Caruso, who he called "Pops," passed away Tuesday.
The host of NBC's "Today" and "The Voice" announced the passing along with a photo of his stepfather on to Instagram.
"Pops passed away today with absolute dignity pride," Daly wrote.
"The greatest man we ever knew.
Our hero."
Pops passed away today with absolute dignity & pride.
The greatest man we ever knew.
Our hero.
He exemplified great faith, loyalty to family & hard work.
He provided us all with so much.
Were grateful.
His legacy lives on in all of us & anyone who had the pleasure of meeting him.
Hes reunited with mom now.
Our faith remains strong.
Thanks for your continued thoughts and prayers.
A post shared by Carson Daly (@carsondaly) on Oct 24, 2017 at 1:18pm PDT "He's back with mom now," Daly wrote.
Daly's mother, Pattie Daly Caruso, a well-known local TV personality in California, died of a heart attack last month at age 73, according to US Weekly.
"Short story, been a rough month for my fam.
Mom passing.
Dads health in peril.
Just finished shooting NEXT season of Voice.
Back Thursday," Daly wrote on Twitter earlier this morning in response to a fan's inquiry about his whereabouts.
Daly's mother appeared with her son at times on the red carpet and on "The Voice."
Musician Billy Joel poses with his newbown daughter on October 23, 2017 in New York CIty.
Billy Joel and wife Alexis welcomed their second daughter named Remy Anne on Sunday, October 22, 2017.
Remy Anne entered the world at 7:50pm weighing 7Lbs and 3 oz.
Singer-songwriter Billy Joel and his wife, Alexis Roderick, announced the birth of their second daughter, Remy Anne, on Monday.
Remy Anne was born at 7:50 p.m. on Sunday at New York University Hospital in New York City.
A photo of the smiling musician and his third daughter was posted along with the birth announcement on Joel's official website.
"Alexis and Remy are doing well and everything is thrilled," the announcement said.
Joel, 68, and Roderick, 35, who began dating in 2009 and married in 2015, are parents of another daughter, 2-year-old Della Rose.
Alexa Ray Joel, Joels 31-year-old daughter from his previous marriage with Christie Brinkley, joined her father and Alexis at the birth of Remy Anne.
Talk about the ultimate wedding crasher.
One St. Louis couple got a surprise dance floor visit during their wedding over the weekend when Katy Perry joined the dance circle.
Perry, who was in town performing for her Witness tour, was spotted with newlyweds Hayley Rosenblum and Blonie Dudney as they celebrated their big day at the Four Seasons Hotel in the city.
Guests told the Kansas City Star that Perry joined the celebration toward the end of the night with a large group of people who rushed the dance floor with their hands in the air yelling.
She stayed for about 10 minutes, they said.
Top Celebs: 'Grace Jones: Bloodlight And Bami' Premiere St. Louis wedding photographer Ray Prop posted a photo of the newlyweds with Perry, captioning it, Do you mind if we crash your wedding?
Other guests also shared images of their selfies with Perry at the event, and one video showed Perry dancing with the bride on the dance floor.
Perrys Witness tour comes to Chicagos United Center Tuesday and Wednesday.
'Late Night': Closer Look at Trump's Attacks on His Challengers Seth Meyers discusses the latest stories surrounding President Donald Trump, including his phone call to the widow of a fallen soldier and his continued attacks on kneeling NFL players.
Jimmy Fallon, in his opening monologue, pokes fun at some rumors that Melania Trump used a body double to attend events with President Donald Trump.
Colleen Ballinger talks about the inspiration behind her YouTube persona 'Miranda' and how it's getting popular enough to have a knock-off Halloween costume.
'Late Night': Mariska Hargitay Got Brooke Shields to Do 'SVU' Seth Meyers sits down with Mariska Hargitay, who chats about how she convinced Brooke Shields to play a grandmother on "Law and Order: SVU."
FILE - Lady Gaga is greeted by former U.S. Vice President Joe Biden after performing for students as part of the national "It's On Us" Week of Action at the Cox Pavilion at UNLV on April 7, 2016, in Las Vegas, Nevada.
As stories of sexual assault and harassment continue to make headlines, Lady Gaga and former Vice President Joe Biden have reunited to create a minute-long public service announcement on sexual assault.
The video, posted on Gaga's Twitter account Wednesday, shows the "Till It Happens to You" singer sitting next to Biden with arms resting on his shoulders.
Biden gently taps on her hand as he introduces Gaga as a surviving victim of sexual assault.
Biden says he admires her courage as a "fierce advocate" with a "voice" for those abused.
"It's on us.
It's on everyone to intervene, to stop abuse when they see it and when they hear about it to intervene," Biden says.
Gaga continues by reminding viewers that men too are abused.
"We're here to remind you that it's important to reach out to someone in your life that you can trust and to know that they will be there to help you," she says.
Originally launched by Biden and former President Barack Obama back in 2014, the "It's On Us" campaign works to end sexual assaults on college campuses.
Both Biden and Gaga have been promoting the campaign.
Last year, Biden introduced Gaga's "Til It Happens To You" performance at the 2016 Academy Awards.
The song was featured in the 2015 documentary "The Hunting Ground" and nominated for an Oscar that following year.
Eyes upstairs.
Portia de Rossi, actress Ellen DeGeneres and singer Katy Perry attend the 55th Annual GRAMMY Awards at STAPLES Center on February 10, 2013 in Los Angeles, California.
DeGeneres is facing criticism for a birthday tweet to Perry.
In post Harvey Weinstein America it appears no one is safe... not even Ellen DeGeneres.
DeGeneres caused a stir of disapproval on social media after wishing singer Katy Perry a happy birthday Wednesday.
The tweet showcased a well-traveled photo of DeGeneres ogling Perry's bosom at the 55th Grammy Awards.
The tweet read "Happy Birthday @KatyPerry!
It's time to bring out the big balloons."
It showed DeGeneres gasping over Perry's cleavage, wearing her iconic mint green Gucci dress at the 2013 Grammy Awards.
Some slammed the tweet as ill-timed and tone deaf in the wake of recent sexual harassment claims that in recent days have dogged everyone from Weinstein to former President George H.W.
Bush to former NBC News analyst Mark Halperin.
DeGeneres was one of the many celebs who spoke out following the Weinstein scandal, tweeting #metoo, a movement used to rally again sexual assault and harassment.
Actor Michael Rapaport was among several who tweeted disapproval, suggesting the backlash would have been more intense had a man made a similar remark.
DeGeneres has not yet responded to the criticism.
Here's the strange thing about last month's Emmys: The biggest victor didn't take home a trophy.
Nobody expected Shannon Purser, nominated for her brief turn as the eminently sensible, ill-fated high school student Barb on "Stranger Things," to win.
Then again, fewer expected her to be nominated.
Purser's guest-actress nod marked a fitting triumph of sorts for a show built around oddball underdogs and kids playing kids' roles.
It also spoke to the sense of loyalty coursing through a drama that celebrates friendship as the key to slaying monsters.
The sci-fi breakout that turned TV and the Emmys upside-down last year returns to Netflix for a second season Friday in a bid to eek out more unlikely wins.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) The 1980s-set Duffer Brothers' sleeper hit landed, at least on the surface, as an ode to Steven Spielberg's "E.T."
glory days, with screeching echoes of "The Goonies" and "Gremlins."
But nostalgia alone doesn't explain the generations-wide devotion to the show, whose first season centered on the search for Will Byers a 12-year-old geek sucked into a netherworld known as the Upside Down.
Will's fellow Dungeons & Dragons-loving buddies, Mike, Lucas and Dustin led the charge, peddling their bikes furiously while battling schoolhouse bullies and a government conspiracy.
Winona Ryder, as Will's unhinged lioness of a mother, and David Harbour, as a haunted small town police chief, turned in career-best performances as the two adult believers who found hope in blinking Christmas lights.
But Millie Bobby Brown, who played Eleven, the short-haired, Eggo-loving forgotten child with fearsome telekinetic powers, shined brightest.
Eleven appeared to exit as a martyr who disintegrated while saving her buddies from the dreaded Demogorgon (the kids D&D-inspired nickname for the monster).
But a hint near end of Season 1 and Season 2 previews suggest her number isn't yet up.
'Late Night': Anna Faris Dishes on Her Podcast Advice Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) It's unclear whether the same could be said for Barb.
But fans likely won't give up rooting for her return.
Stranger things, after all, have happened.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
Video Gabrielle Union shares a stalker story from her collection of essays We're Going to Need More Wine before Jimmy and Chef Michael Symon surprises her with some proper Cleveland barbecue in honor of Dwyane Wade's...
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video 'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP's Opinion of Trump UP NEXT Seth Meyers discusses what some Republicans think of President Donald Trump, including Sen. Jeff Flake, Ariz., and Sen. Bob Corker, Tenn.
Jimmy Fallon teams up with Jessica Alba against JB Smoove and The Roots' Tariq Trotter for a game of "Catchphrase."
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT "Street Science" host Kevin Delaney performs some Halloween-themed experiments with Jimmy Fallon, including exploding a pumpkin and shooting toilet paper through the entire "Tonight Show" studio.
'Late Night': Megyn Kelly on Why She Spoke Out on Bill O'Reilly Seth Meyers talks with Megyn Kelly, who talks about why she directly addressed Bill O'Reilly and his sexual harassment allegations on a recent broadcast of her show.
In an exclusive deleted scene from "Stranger Things," Barb comes back from the Upside Down to confront Mike, Lucas, Dustin and Eleven about leaving her there.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 1, 2016) A New York City hotel is about to take Netflix-and-chill to a whole new level.
In honor of the season 2 premiere of Netflix's "Stranger Things" on Friday, the Gregory Hotel in midtown is offering an appropriately named "ex-stream-ly cozy package" for die-hard fans to binge-watch the show, according to the hotels website.
The package includes an in-room streaming service, and the room comes decked out in "Stranger Things" dcor, complete with colorful Christmas lights and a wall tapestry to display Will's message from the Upside Down.
The bed is dressed in a themed blanket and pillow.
Special treats are available to enjoy while watching the eerie smash hit.
Guests can chow down on Elevens favorite food, Eggo waffles, or sip on a Healthy Skoops Sleep Protein to fight off show-induced nightmares.
Don't forget the canned House Wine.
Photo credit: Gregory Hotel A "Friends dont lie" souvenir mug is also included for guests to take home.
Booking rates start at $249 per night and run through Aug. 30, 2018.
LOS ANGELES, CA - JANUARY 2014 Singer/songwriters Tamar Braxton and Vincent Herbert attend the 56th GRAMMY Awards at Staples Center on Jan.26, 2014 in Los Angeles, California.
Braxton has filed to divorce her husband Herbert, who is also her manager.
R&B singer Tamar Braxton has filed to divorce her husband Vincent Herbert, who is also her manager.
Braxton filed for divorce this week in Los Angeles, citing irreconcilable differences.
They were married in 2008 and the documents say they separated this month.
They are parents of 4-year-old Logan Herbert.
Braxton is seeking joint custody of their son but wants Logan to live with her.
Braxton rose to fame in 2011 on "Braxton Family Values," the WEtv reality series featuring Grammy-winning singer Toni Braxton and her four sisters.
The show helped boost Tamar Braxton's music career, earning her Grammy nominations.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) The singer and Herbert, who discovered Lady Gaga and aided in her career, appear in the spin-off WEtv show "Tamar & Vince."
Its fifth season will debut Nov. 9.
A cosplayer dressed as Wonder Woman attends the 2017 New York Comic Con on Oct. 8, 2017, in New York City.
Step aside, Harley Quinn.
This year's new queen of Halloween is none other than the shield-wielding Amazon princess, Wonder Woman, according to Google.
There have been more searches for Wonder Woman costumes than any other Halloween ensemble this October, according to the search engine's Frightgeist tool.
The movie heroine's not alone, though.
Google has rounded up search data to determine the most popular Halloween costumes across the country.
Here's the top 10: 1.
Wonder Woman Changes are high youll see at least a few versions of this warrior princess walking the streets this Halloween.
Wonder Woman dethroned last years favorite, Harley Quinn of Suicide Squad.
Wonder Woman costumes were most searched in Parkersburg, West Virginia; Bozeman, Montana, and Abilene, Texas.
2.
Harley Quinn Although she was bumped to second place, the supervillain played by Margot Robbie in the 2016 film "Suicide Squad" is a still a top costume choice this year.
3.
Clown Always a classic, this year might see an extra boost in clown costumes thanks to the remake of horror film "It."
The costumes rounding out the top 10 range from the classic witch and zombie to animals like rabbits and mice.
4.
Unicorn 5.
Rabbit 6.
Witch 7.
Mouse 8.
Pirate 9.
Zombie 10.
Dinosaur Olympians' Favorite Halloween Candy With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) The list goes on to include the top 100 costumes nationwide.
Movie characters make up one-fifth of searches, followed by animals at 12 percent and comic book characters at 11 percent.
New additions to the top 100 list this year include emoji, Thing 1 of Dr. Seuss' "Cat in the Hat," and outfits from "Moana," "It" and "Stranger Things."
Not all costumes will be popular forever.
These are the costumes that saw the biggest drop in rankings since last year: 1.
Maleficent 2.
Knight 3.
Frankenstein 4.
Evil Queen 5.
Snow White Google also lets you search the most popular costumes in your area with a map tool.
The top costume this year in Casper, Wyoming, for example, is an elephant, while people in Anchorage, Alaska, are looking for physician costumes.
If youre still figuring out what you want to be for Halloween, the costume wizard tool can suggest an outfit for you based on your desired levels of spookiness, trendiness and uniqueness.
Man Builds Two-Story Star Wars Transport Replica
In this Feb. 5, 2017 file photo, singer Lady Gaga performs during the halftime show of the NFL Super Bowl 51 football game between the New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons, in Houston, Texas.
Just in time for Halloween, a new wax figure of Lady Gaga has Twitterverse cowering in fright.
Photos of the wax figure of the singer on display in Peru went viral and isare drawing tons of reviews... and they're pretty much all bad.
According to Billboard, the sculpture went up in the Lima museum last week.
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement In appearance, Fats Domino wasn't a typical a teen idol.
He stood 5-feet-5 and weighed more than 200 pounds, with a wide, boyish smile and a haircut as flat as an album cover.
But Domino sold more than 110 million records, with hits including "Blueberry Hill," ''Ain't That a Shame" and other standards of rock 'n' roll.
Domino, the amiable rock 'n' roll pioneer whose steady, pounding piano and easy baritone helped change popular music even as it honored the grand, good-humored tradition of the Crescent City, died early Tuesday.
He was 89.
Mark Bone, chief investigator with the Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, coroner's office, said Domino died of natural causes early Tuesday morning.
His dynamic performance style and warm vocals drew crowds for five decades.
One of his show-stopping stunts was playing the piano while standing, throwing his body against it with the beat of the music and bumping the grand piano across the stage.
Domino's 1956 version of "Blueberry Hill" was selected for the Library of Congress' National Recording Registry of historic sound recordings worthy of preservation.
The preservation board noted that Domino insisted on performing the song despite his producer's doubts, adding that Domino's "New Orleans roots are evident in the Creole inflected cadences that add richness and depth to the performance."
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement.
Domino became a global star but stayed true to his hometown, where his fate was initially unknown after Hurricane Katrina struck in August 2005.
It turned out that he and his family were rescued by boat from his home, where he lost three pianos and dozens of gold and platinum records, along with other memorabilia.
Many wondered if he would ever return to the stage.
Scheduled to perform at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in 2006, he simply tipped his hat to thousands of cheering fans.
His friend Haydee Ellis said then that Domino was "OK, but he doesn't feel up to performing."
But in May 2007, he was back, performing at Tipitina's music club in New Orleans.
Fans cheered and some cried as Domino played "I'm Walkin'," ''Ain't It a Shame," ''Shake, Rattle and Roll," ''Blueberry Hill" and a host of other hits.
That performance was a highlight during several rough years.
After losing their home and almost all their belongings to the floods, his wife of more than 50 years, Rosemary, died in April 2008.
'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Domino moved to the New Orleans suburb of Harvey after the storm but would often visit his publishing house, an extension of his old home in the Lower 9th Ward, inspiring many with his determination to stay in the city he loved.
"Fats embodies everything good about New Orleans," his friend David Lind said in a 2008 interview.
"He's warm, fun-loving, spiritual, creative and humble.
You don't get more New Orleans than that."
The son of a violin player, Antoine Domino Jr. was born Feb. 26, 1928, to a family that grew to include nine children.
Antoine and Rosemary Domino raised eight children in the same ramshackle neighborhood where he grew up, but they did it in style in a white mansion, trimmed in pink, yellow and lavender.
The front double doors opened into an atrium with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling and ivory dominos set in a white marble floor.
As a youth, he taught himself popular piano styles ragtime, blues and boogie-woogie after his cousin left an old upright in the house.
Fats Waller and Albert Ammons were early influences.
He quit school at age 14, and worked days in a factory while playing and singing in local juke joints at night.
In 1949, Domino was playing at the Hideaway Club for $3 a week when he was signed by Imperial record company.
'Late Night': Anna Faris Dishes on Her Podcast Advice Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) He recorded his first song, "The Fat Man," in the back of a tiny French Quarter recording studio.
"They call me the Fat Man, because I weigh 200 pounds," he sang.
"All the girls, they love me, 'cause I know my way around."
"Fat Man" sold more than 1 million copies and has been called the first rock 'n' roll record.
That's not a unique claim in the music world, but Domino, with help from songwriting partner Dave Bartholomew, shaped the new genre by providing Imperial with rhythm and blues hits for the next five years, including "Rockin' Chair" and "You Done Me Wrong."
In 1955, he broke into the white pop charts with "Ain't it a Shame" in which he sang the lyrics as "ain't that a shame."
It was covered blandly by Pat Boone as "Ain't That a Shame" and rocked out years later under that title by Cheap Trick and many others.
Domino enjoyed a parade of successes through the early 1960s, including "Be My Guest" and "I'm Ready."
Another hit, "I'm Walkin,'" became the debut single for Ricky Nelson.
Domino appeared in the rock 'n' roll film "The Girl Can't Help It" and was among the first black performers to be featured in popular music shows, starring with Buddy Holly and the Everly Brothers.
He also helped bridge rock 'n' roll and other styles even country/western, recording Hank Williams' "Jambalaya" and Bobby Charles' "Walkin' to New Orleans."
Like many of his peers, Domino's popularity tapered off in the 1960s as British and psychedelic rock held sway.
His last song to reach the charts was a 1968 remake of the Beatles' "Lady Madonna," featuring a pumping piano riff in the Domino style.
Olympians' Favorite Halloween Candy With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) Domino told Ebony magazine that he stopped recording because companies wanted him to update his style.
"I refused to change," he said.
"I had to stick to my own style that I've always used or it just wouldn't be me."
But his old recordings kept selling, his concerts kept selling out, and his influence continued to be felt.
You could hear it in Bob Dylan's "Nothing Was Delivered," in numerous songs by Randy Newman, and, at least in spirit, on Van Morrison's horn-driven tribute, "Domino."
A Philadelphia chicken plucker named Ernest Evans changed his name to a parody of Domino's, Chubby Checker, and found dance floor immortality performing "The Twist."
Domino sang and played in Las Vegas for more than 10 years, where he passed time between shows in the gambling room.
In the 1974 Ebony interview, he said he lost more than $2 million before he was cured of the gambling habit in 1972.
In 1988, all of New Orleans seemed to be talking about him after he reportedly paid cash in one pop for two Cadillacs and a $130,000 Rolls-Royce.
When the salesman asked if he wanted to call his bank about financing, Domino smiled and said, "I am the bank."
In 1998, he became the first purely rock 'n' roll musician to be awarded the National Medal for the Arts.
But he cited his age and didn't make the trip to the White House to get the medal from President Clinton.
That was typical.
Aside from rare appearances in New Orleans, he dodged the spotlight in his later years, refusing to appear in public or even to give interviews.
Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Fats Domino, the amiable rock 'n' roll pioneer whose steady, pounding piano and easy baritone helped change popular music while honoring the traditions of the Crescent City, has died.
He was 89.
Mark Bone, chief investigator with the Jefferson Parish, Louisiana, coroner's office, said Domino died of natural causes at 3:30 a.m. Tuesday.
In appearance, he was no Elvis Presley.
He stood 5-feet-5 and weighed more than 200 pounds, with a wide, boyish smile and a haircut as flat as an album cover.
But Domino sold more than 110 million records, with hits including "Blueberry Hill," ''Ain't It a Shame" in which he sang the lyrics as "ain't that a shame" and other standards of rock 'n' roll.
In a tweet Wednesday, New Orleans-born singer and actor Harry Connick Jr. credited the musician for "paving the way for New Orleans piano players... see you on top on that blueberry hill in the sky," he wrote.
Actor Wendell Pierce also mourned the loss of his hero of social media, tweeting: "Words fail me in this moment of deep heartache and sadness.
We have lost a legend.
One of my heroes.
New Orleans' Fats domino is dead."
He was one of the first 10 honorees named to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the Rolling Stone Record Guide likened him to Benjamin Franklin, the beloved old man of a revolutionary movement.
His dynamic performance style and warm vocals drew crowds for five decades.
One of his show-stopping stunts was playing the piano while standing, throwing his body against it with the beat of the music and bumping the grand piano across the stage.
Domino's 1956 version of "Blueberry Hill" was selected for the Library of Congress' National Recording Registry of historic sound recordings worthy of preservation.
The preservation board noted that Domino insisted on performing the song despite his producer's doubts, adding that Domino's "New Orleans roots are evident in the Creole inflected cadences that add richness and depth to the performance."
Domino became a global star but stayed true to his hometown, where his fate was initially unknown after Hurricane Katrina struck in August 2005.
It turned out that he and his family were rescued by boat from his home, where he lost three pianos and dozens of gold and platinum records, along with other memorabilia.
In Memoriam: Rock n' Roll Legend Fats Domino Dies at 89 Many wondered if he would ever return to the stage.
Scheduled to perform at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival in 2006, he simply tipped his hat to thousands of cheering fans.
But in May 2007, he was back, performing at Tipitina's music club in New Orleans.
Fans cheered and some cried as Domino played "I'm Walkin'," ''Ain't It a Shame," ''Shake, Rattle and Roll," ''Blueberry Hill" and a host of other hits.
That performance was a highlight during several rough years.
After losing their home and almost all their belongings to the floods, his wife of more than 50 years, Rosemary, died in April 2008.
Domino moved to the New Orleans suburb of Harvey after the storm but would often visit his publishing house, an extension of his old home in the Lower 9th Ward, inspiring many with his determination to stay in the city he loved.
"Fats embodies everything good about New Orleans," his friend David Lind said in a 2008 interview.
"He's warm, fun-loving, spiritual, creative and humble.
You don't get more New Orleans than that."
The son of a violin player, Antoine Domino Jr. was born on Feb. 26, 1928, to a family that grew to include nine children.
As a youth, he taught himself popular piano styles ragtime, blues and boogie-woogie after his cousin left an old upright in the house.
Fats Waller and Albert Ammons were early influences.
Top Celebs: 'Grace Jones: Bloodlight And Bami' Premiere He quit school at age 14, and worked days in a factory while playing and singing in local juke joints at night.
In 1949, Domino was playing at the Hideaway Club for $3 a week when he was signed by Imperial record company.
He recorded his first song, "The Fat Man," in the back of a tiny French Quarter recording studio.
"They call me the Fat Man, because I weigh 200 pounds," he sang.
"All the girls, they love me, 'cause I know my way around."
In 1955, he broke into the white pop charts with "Ain't it a Shame," covered blandly by Pat Boone as "Ain't That a Shame" and rocked out decades later by Cheap Trick.
Domino enjoyed a parade of successes through the early 1960s, including "Be My Guest" and "I'm Ready."
Another hit, "I'm Walkin,'" became the debut single for Ricky Nelson.
Domino appeared in the rock 'n' roll film "The Girl Can't Help It" and was among the first black performers to be featured in popular music shows, starring with Buddy Holly and the Everly Brothers.
He also helped bridge rock 'n' roll and other styles even country/western, recording Hank Williams' "Jambalaya" and Bobby Charles' "Walkin' to New Orleans."
Like many of his peers, Domino's popularity tapered off in the 1960s as British and psychedelic rock held sway.
Domino told Ebony magazine that he stopped recording because companies wanted him to update his style.
"I refused to change," he said.
"I had to stick to my own style that I've always used or it just wouldn't be me."
Antoine and Rosemary Domino raised eight children in the same ramshackle neighborhood where he grew up, but they did it in style in a white mansion, trimmed in pink, yellow and lavender.
The front double doors opened into an atrium with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling and ivory dominos set in a white marble floor.
In 1988, all of New Orleans seemed to be talking about him after he reportedly paid in cash for two Cadillacs and a $130,000 Rolls-Royce.
When the salesman asked if he wanted to call his bank about financing, Domino smiled and said, "I am the bank."
In 1998, he became the first purely rock 'n' roll musician to be awarded the National Medal for the Arts.
But he cited his age and didn't make the trip to the White House to get the medal from President Clinton.
That was typical.
Aside from rare appearances in New Orleans, he dodged the spotlight in his later years, refusing to appear in public or even to give interviews.
Other celebrities also took to social media to mourn his death and pay tribute to Domino.
Star-gazing isn't just for the red carpet!
Take a look at some celebrities who've been spotted in the stands and on the sidelines rooting for their favorite sports teams and athletes.
Bob Marley's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame was vandalized.
Someone vandalized Bob Marley's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and it will cost about $3,000 to repair it.
The vandalism was discovered on Monday, said Ana Martinez of the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce.
"It had been pounded on with what appears to be a sledgehammer or something heavy like that, totally destroying it," Martinez said.
She said the star will be repaired Wednesday.
Stars Honored on Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2017 "This is considered vandalism to a State Historic Landmark,'' she said.
"It will be repaired by the Hollywood Historic Trust and will cost nearly $3,000 to repair it."
Martinez tweeted a photo of the damaged star, along with the message: "Why would anyone do this to Bob Marley's star?
Help me understand.
The Walk of Fame is a State registered Historic landmark!
Disrespectful."
The reggae artist died in 1981.
He was posthumously awarded the star, located at 7080 Hollywood Blvd., in 2001.
Another star was notably destroyed by a sledgehammer last October: President Donald Trump's.
An heir to the Otis Elevator Company fortune surrendered to police, saying he attacked the star as "an act of civil disobedience."
Man Who Smashed Trump's Star: 'It Was an Act of Civil Disobedience'
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Lin-Manuel Miranda Freestyles With The Roots UP NEXT Lin-Manuel Miranda joins The Roots to freestyle a rap inspired by a "Tonight Show" audience member.
Jimmy Fallon chats with Lin-Manuel Miranda, whose son doesn't exactly enjoy his Tony Award-winning musical "Hamilton," but loves his new song for Puerto Rico.
Seth Meyers takes a look at two financial backers of the Trump campaign and the far-right candidates Donald Trump is endorsing as president.
Seth Meyers sits down with Anna Faris, who talks about her new book, "Unqualified," and advice she gave on her podcast to a caller with a complicated story.
In support of continued Puerto Rico relief and recovery operations, NBC New York aired a special, behind-the-scenes look at the making of Lin-Manuel Mirandas hit single "Almost Like Praying," benefiting the Hispanic Federations UNIDOS hurricane relief fund.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) Lin-Manuel Miranda Gives Behind-the-Scenes Look at Making of 'Almost Like Praying' In support of continued Puerto Rico relief and recovery operations, NBC New York aired a special, behind-the-scenes look at the making of Lin-Manuel Mirandas hit single "Almost Like Praying," benefiting the Hispanic Federations UNIDOS hurricane relief fund.
For viewers who missed the special during its live airing, the special can be seen in the video player above.
Lin-Manuel Miranda: Coqui Frog Is a Metaphor for PR News 4's Darlene Rodriguez sits down with Lin-Manuel Miranda to hear why he thinks a tiny little frog is the metaphor for the people of Puerto Rico.
Don't miss "Almost Like Praying," a 30-minute behind-the-scenes special on the making of Miranda's hit single.
The special English-language broadcast airs Tuesday at 7 p.m.
ET on NBC 4 New York and will be streamed live on NBCNewYork.com.
All proceeds will go to help hurricane victims and the recovery efforts through fellow community and civic organizations in Puerto Rico.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) One hundred percent of the proceeds will help hurricane victims and the recovery efforts through fellow community and civic organizations in Puerto Rico.
Additionally, viewers can also donate through the following means: To donate via text, compose a new text message for number 41444.
Type UNIDOS (space) YOUR AMOUNT (space) and YOUR NAME.
(For example: Unidos 100 John Doe) Then press "send" and click on the link to complete your donation.
To donate via website, visit www.hispanicfederation.org/donate and select "Hurricane Relief Effort" from the drop-down menu.
To donate in person, visit any Popular Community Bank branch.
Account name: Hurricane Relief Effort.
Checking account number 6810893500.
Carson Daly is mourning the passing of his stepfather.
Carson Daly's stepfather Richard Caruso, who he called "Pops," passed away Tuesday.
The host of NBC's "Today" and "The Voice" announced the passing along with a photo of his stepfather on to Instagram.
"Pops passed away today with absolute dignity pride," Daly wrote.
"The greatest man we ever knew.
Our hero."
Pops passed away today with absolute dignity & pride.
The greatest man we ever knew.
Our hero.
He exemplified great faith, loyalty to family & hard work.
He provided us all with so much.
Were grateful.
His legacy lives on in all of us & anyone who had the pleasure of meeting him.
Hes reunited with mom now.
Our faith remains strong.
Thanks for your continued thoughts and prayers.
A post shared by Carson Daly (@carsondaly) on Oct 24, 2017 at 1:18pm PDT "He's back with mom now," Daly wrote.
Daly's mother, Pattie Daly Caruso, a well-known local TV personality in California, died of a heart attack last month at age 73, according to US Weekly.
"Short story, been a rough month for my fam.
Mom passing.
Dads health in peril.
Just finished shooting NEXT season of Voice.
Back Thursday," Daly wrote on Twitter earlier this morning in response to a fan's inquiry about his whereabouts.
Daly's mother appeared with her son at times on the red carpet and on "The Voice."
Musician Billy Joel poses with his newbown daughter on October 23, 2017 in New York CIty.
Billy Joel and wife Alexis welcomed their second daughter named Remy Anne on Sunday, October 22, 2017.
Remy Anne entered the world at 7:50pm weighing 7Lbs and 3 oz.
Singer-songwriter Billy Joel and his wife, Alexis Roderick, announced the birth of their second daughter, Remy Anne, on Monday.
Remy Anne was born at 7:50 p.m. on Sunday at New York University Hospital in New York City.
A photo of the smiling musician and his third daughter was posted along with the birth announcement on Joel's official website.
"Alexis and Remy are doing well and everything is thrilled," the announcement said.
Joel, 68, and Roderick, 35, who began dating in 2009 and married in 2015, are parents of another daughter, 2-year-old Della Rose.
Alexa Ray Joel, Joels 31-year-old daughter from his previous marriage with Christie Brinkley, joined her father and Alexis at the birth of Remy Anne.
Talk about the ultimate wedding crasher.
One St. Louis couple got a surprise dance floor visit during their wedding over the weekend when Katy Perry joined the dance circle.
Perry, who was in town performing for her Witness tour, was spotted with newlyweds Hayley Rosenblum and Blonie Dudney as they celebrated their big day at the Four Seasons Hotel in the city.
Guests told the Kansas City Star that Perry joined the celebration toward the end of the night with a large group of people who rushed the dance floor with their hands in the air yelling.
She stayed for about 10 minutes, they said.
Top Celebs: 'Grace Jones: Bloodlight And Bami' Premiere St. Louis wedding photographer Ray Prop posted a photo of the newlyweds with Perry, captioning it, Do you mind if we crash your wedding?
Other guests also shared images of their selfies with Perry at the event, and one video showed Perry dancing with the bride on the dance floor.
Perrys Witness tour comes to Chicagos United Center Tuesday and Wednesday.
'Late Night': Closer Look at Trump's Attacks on His Challengers Seth Meyers discusses the latest stories surrounding President Donald Trump, including his phone call to the widow of a fallen soldier and his continued attacks on kneeling NFL players.
Jimmy Fallon, in his opening monologue, pokes fun at some rumors that Melania Trump used a body double to attend events with President Donald Trump.
Just off California's coastline, whales of all sorts shoot into the air, feast on food and glide through the cool ocean water every day.
A photographer who posts his snapshots on Instagram has been lucky enough to catch the creatures in action over the past couple months.
Tucked away in the sub-basement of the Roundabout Underground in Times Square, just a few blocks away from where some are paying otherworldly ticket prices for "Hamilton" or Bruce Springsteen's one man show, may be one of Off-Broadway's best kept secrets.
"Too Heavy For Your Pocket," a new play written by Jirh Breon Holder starring Brandon Gill, Hampton Fluker, Eboni Flowers and Nneka Okafor, was just extended one week and will now conclude its run at Roundabout's Black Box Theatre on Nov. 26.
The play chronicles the lives of two African American couples in the early 1960's during the heat of the civil rights movement.
Their futures are thrown into turmoil after one of their group decides to forsake a life-altering college scholarship to join the Freedom Riders.
The original Freedom Riders consisted of 13 African American and white civil rights activists who launched the Freedom Rides on May 4, 1961 -- a movement that consisted of a series of bus trips through the American South to protest segregation in interstate bus terminals.
The Freedom Riders attempted to integrate facilities at bus terminals along the way into the Deep South.
African American Freedom Riders tried to use whites-only restrooms and lunch counters, encountering violence from white protesters along the route while drawing international attention to their cause.
Gill, who the plays the character of Bowzie Brandon, was introduced to the project when the playwright said the part was written specifically with him in mind.
"The writer was a friend first and he writes to your strengths.
So there are a lot of characteristics between Bowzie and myself that we definitely share," Brandon says.
"There are similarities in terms of being a dreamer and wanting to reach outside the little space that you grew up in."
Flowers, who plays Gill's bold and sassy wife Evelyn, says the material spoke to her in a deeply instinctual way.
"As a southerner, especially being from Montgomery, I feel like these conversations and dialogue were always prevalent in my family," she says.
"So I was familiar with Dr. King's journey and that of the Freedom Riders and the four little girls [murdered on Sept. 15, 1963 after a bomb detonated beneath the steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church].
These have always been active conversations in my family.
So this is just a deeper dive into the narrative."
Both performers believe that while the play focuses on the events of the 1960s, it has never been more relevant than it is today, in 2017, as professional athletes take a knee in the face of social injustices and women across the country speak out against sexual harassment and abuse in the form of the #MeToo movement.
"There's never an opportune time for people of color to speak out against adversity," says Gill. "
It always seem an inconvenience to privilege or disrespectful in some way.
At the same time it has to be done.
So just do it when you're ready."
Adds Flowers, "It doesnt stop with the Freedom Riders.
They are part of a much bigger picture.
I think about #MeToo and the women's struggle thats happening right now with being transparent about things that have been going on.
There are so many different things to be active about, including being a black person, and the things that we need and want and the dignity that we continue to fight for."
The extension week will include three special performances reserved for New York City students from schools affiliated with Roundabout's expansive education program.
Information regarding tickets for the show can be found on the Roundabout website.
Now's the time to believe in unicorns.
Drop, an app that offers members cash rewards for spending with their favorite brands, is going to be handing out free cash with a unicorn at several secret locations in Manhattan on Tuesday as part of a promotion.
Find the unicorn -- get free cash.
Simple, right?
We're not sure what denominations the unicorn plans to hand out, but, again, it's free cash.
As for Drop, the app is free and lets users accrue points by connecting their credit or debit cards.
Points are then redeemed for cash rewards, like an Amazon gift card, for example.
Click here to learn more about how it works.
Follow @earnwithdrop on Twitter or Facebook to find out the specific secret locations.
HINT: It starts at noon at the corner of Broadway and West 28th Street.
More than 500 animals attended the 27th Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade in Tompkins Square Park in the East Village on Saturday.
The event is known as one of the largest Halloween events for dogs in the country.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
Some Halloween treats are trickier than others when it comes to sugar and calories.
Here's a better way to dip into your kids' candy stash.
NBC News worked with experts to size up the nutritional labels of some of the most popular Halloween candies, with a strong focus on calories, portion size and sugar content, so you can make better choices in the lead-up to Oct. 31.
(To keep things in perspective, the American Heart Association recommends limiting added sugar intake to 37 grams for men and 25 for women per day.)
Top Picks Nutritionist Pick #1: Trolli Sour Bit Crawlers One serving eight pieces of these brightly colored gummy worms comes in at 100 calories and 14 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #2: Snack-Size Reese's Peanut Butter Cups A single peanut butter cup has 110 calories and 11 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #3: Charms Blow Pop Although this lollipop with gum in the center has 13 grams of sugar, its only 70 calories.
The Best and Worst of the Rest (In That Order) Snicker Miniatures Twix Caramel Cookie Bars Mini Kit Kat Minis Twizzlers Strawberry Twists Tootsie Roll Minis Brach's Candy Corn
Meet the bakers who are partying with the fans who order knafeh, the popular Middle Eastern dessert with a special spin.
At Knafeh New York, you'll find only the eponymous dessert on the menu.
It'll be served by men in white dancing to thumping music inside a tricked-out shipping container.
Yes, there's a lot to process for an eatery that sticks to a one-item menu.
The knafehs are being dished up at the first New York outpost of the Australian bakery, which has made appearances at the Queens Night Market and the 3rd Avenue Festival in Bay Ridge.
As you order your knafeh, you'll see the so-called bearded bakers ladling batter into plates, spritzing rose water wash with grand arcs of the arm, and drizzling syrup with flourish, all making for entertaining dessert theater.
But it's interactive, too: they dance and beat on drums and jump over the counter to dance with the crowd as music plays.
The creamy knafeh is then presented in a small pie plate, the top torched over so that it's like a creme brulee, complete with a sweet crunchy coating that cracks open with the most satisfying of whacks.
Feeling naughty... indulge in a Knafeh tomorrow night at the @queensnightmarket.
6pm till midnight.
New York Hall of Science.
Sunday: 10am - 6pm.
7510 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn.
11209.
@anahidddd #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #beardedbakers A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 13, 2017 at 3:25pm PDT While a sweet staple all across the Middle East, this particular recipe for knafeh happens to be created by founder Ameer El-Issa's mother back in Sydney.
It became a cult hit when it landed on the menu at a restaurant he was helping to open at the time, and when the restaurant became overwhelmed by the demand, El-Issa decided to create a concept space devoted exclusively to the dessert.
Meet Mama & The Bearded Bakers !!
This week's location: Saturday: @queensnightmarket 6pm - midnight.
Sunday: Third Avenue Festival.
Bayridge, Brooklyn.
10am - 6pm @tkny86 #mamabaker #beardedbakers #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #smile A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 12, 2017 at 12:23pm PDT He drew on his background as an architect and an old dream of creating something out of shipping containers (he'd done a case study on them while in school) -- and the box-based Knafeh bakery was born.
The Knafeh New York shipping container was outfitted in Sydney and shipped from there over water, taking six weeks to arrive in New York.
It's been open for business for about a month here, and also has locations in Sydney, where it launched three years ago, and in Melbourne.
El-Issa, whose father was born in Jerusalem and mother in Jordan, says he comes from a family where "we were always surrounded by food and people," and learned the pleasure of eating was just as much about the experience as the product.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel There's no rhyme or reason to how they have fun, El-Issa says -- they just go with the flow, and the music they play follows no set playlist.
There's a bit of European and Middle Eastern music, there's some hip-hop and R&B, there are classic American standards.
"We feel like it's very hard to have knafeh and not be happy," El-Issa said simply.
The Bearded Bakers took on Brooklyn !!
A day to remember.
Thank you Brooklyn, thank you New York.
Stay tuned for next appearance.
#beardedbakers #knafehnewyork #knafehbakery #brooklyn #atlanticantic #newyork A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Sep 24, 2017 at 7:01pm PDT Knafeh New York been set up at the Queens Night Market the past few Saturdays, and will be there again for the last weekend of the season, on Oct. 21.
Knafeh has also set up shop in Bay Ridge the past few Sundays and made other appearances around town.
It will head across the Hudson to New Jersey on the weekend of Oct. 28 and 29.
"Queens has been amazing, Brooklyn's been incredible," El-Issa said of the month that he's been in New York so far with the entire Knafeh team from Sydney (including his mother).
He's hoping to eventually recruit local "bakers and shakers" to start running the shop, then has his eyes set on expanding internationally.
"Once we can make it in New York, we can make it anywhere."
To see where Knafeh will set up next in New York, follow them on Facebook and Instagram.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel
The $1,000 bagel is back in New York City.
The Westin New York hotel in Times Square is offering the extravagant bagel for a limited time next month, 10 years after it was first introduced on the menu.
The bagel, from New Yorker Bagels, will be dressed in Alba white truffle cream cheese, topped with goji berry-infused Riesling jelly and flaked with golden leaves.
The $1,000 bagel at Westin New York Photo credit: Westin New York Pound for pound, the white truffle is the second most expensive food in the world, after caviar, according to a spokeswoman for the hotel.
The delicacy is grown in the Alba region of Italy beneath certain oak trees, and trained dogs or pigs are necessary to locate them.
Production of the truffles is extremely limited, and they're in season from late autumn to winter.
The spokeswoman says the Alba white truffles are the "star" of the bagel creation and the main contributor to the four-digit price tag.
America's Best and Worst Supermarkets Revealed Tax and tip are included in the $1,000 bagel, which is available for order via 24-hour room service or at the hotel's Foundry Bar during breakfast hours.
A spokeswoman for The Westin says ever since the $1,000 bagel made its first brief appearance in the fall of 2007, "requests for this over-the-top bagel have come in yearly without fail."
"Considering how pricing has risen in the past decade (try buying an apartment for the same price as it was in 2007), this bagel at its introductory cost is nearly a deal," says the hotel.
But the bagel buyers needn't feel too bad about such a lavish expense -- 100 percent of the proceeds will be donated to Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen.
The $1,000 bagel will be offered from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15 and must be ordered 24 hours in advance.
46 Local Pizzas Land on Annual List of America's Best
Sting's stunningly unique duplex penthouse on Central Park West is now off the market, having sold for a whopping $50 million, according to Page Six.
The legendary musician poured more than a bit of his own character into the design.
Take a look inside.
See more homes for sale with Sotheby's International Realty here.
The musician's penthouse, on the market for $56 million, has been called an "architectural tour de force" by Sotheby's.
Neiman Marcus launched their annual Christmas Book of fantasy gifts for the 2017 holiday season on Tuesday, with the least expensive item being an Omy Coloring book for $9 and the priciest a private New Year's party for $1.6 million.
Company officials revealed this year's catalog at Park Place Premier Collection dealership in Dallas, saying the items were curated from hundreds of submissions.
Neiman Marcus 2017 Fantasy Gifts These gifts will exceed expectations through exceptional experiences and one-of-a-kind objects that only Neiman Marcus can curate, said Jim Gold, president and chief merchandising officer for Neiman Marcus Group.
The 300-page 2017 Christmas Book features more than 780 holiday gifts.
Nearly 50 percent of the items are under $250.
The most expensive fantasy gift is a private New Year's party for you and 299 of your closest friends atop New York's Knickerbocker Hotel, with $80,000 of the $1.6 million price tag being donated to charity.
This year's catalog also includes "an aerial photo session with Gray Malin, a pampering experience in Paris with Sisley, and a bespoke handbag collection and Parisian experience with Olympia Le-Tan."
The Yours & Mine Fantasy Gift is a pair of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited-Edition Dawns in two color options.
First published in 1926 as a 16-page booklet, the Neiman Marcus Christmas Book was initially intended as a Christmas card to the stores best customers.
Through the years, the book has maintained its personal touch while evolving into a legendary source for alluring and mystical gifts.
"Theres something that creates that wit and whimsy that only Neiman Marcus can create for our customers.
We work all year round with a team of our associates to come up with and create these experiences like none other.
Something that will really surprise and delight our customers," said Vice President Neiman Marcus Corporate Communications Mimi Sterling.
Among this year's fantasy gifts is one promising to give back 100 percent of its proceeds.
Dallas based Paper for Water's origami ornaments are $50, which its young founders say can provide water for someone for a lifetime.
Without water you cant live.
You cant work.
It also enables kids to go to school because they dont have to spend their whole day hauling water.
They try to position the wells so that nobody has to walk more than 30 minutes to get clean water.
Thats just a huge time saver, and it enables people to start businesses and try to get out of poverty, said Katherine Adams.
A portion of all other fantasy gifts will be donated to the Heart of Neiman Marcus Foundation, which provides art education for kids.
MORE: Neiman Marcus Christmas Book
From a paranormal hotel in Brooklyn to a hayride on an eerie family farm, there are plenty of haunted attractions to check out across the tri-state this Halloween season.
Most of them are in the $20 to $50 range and are open rain or shine through early November.
Tickets tend to be cheaper online and some places give deals for matinees and weekday visits.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
In this Monday, March 1, 2010, file photo, an Arby's restaurant sign is shown in Cutler Bay, Fla. Arby's announced Wednesday that it will be selling its venison sandwich at all 3,300 restaurants nationwide starting on Oct. 21, after releasing it in five states last year.
The sandwich features a thick-cut venison steak marinated in garlic, salt and pepper and cooked sous-vide for three hours, "Today" reported.
The meat is then topped with onions and a juniper berry sauce, all served on a toasted roll.
The sandwich will only be available while supplies last.
The nationwide rollout comes after Arby's sold it in 17 locations most of them in popular deer-hunting hot spots like Wisconsin, Tennessee and rural Pennsylvania last fall.
Arby's also will be selling an elk meat sandwich in just three locations in Colorado, Wyoming and Montana.
From baroque romance-inspired outfits to mini sparklers and edgy twists, New York's Bridal Fashion Week was rife with unique and glamorous wedding dresses.
Here's a look at some of the top looks from designers including Vera Wang, Naeem Khan and Marchesa.
The Smithsonian National Museum of American History has accepted artifacts from AMCs award-winning television series The Walking Dead."
Cast members, including Norman Reedus, Danai Gurira, Andrew Lincoln and Lennie James, attended the donation ceremony and presented some props that viewers may recognize from the past seven seasons.
Artifacts from the hit show The Walking Dead were donated to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.
If you live in the tri-state area, it should come as no surprise that nearly half of America's best pizzas are located in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
The Daily Meal has released its annual list of the 101 Best Pizzas in America and the tri-state has claimed 46 spots, including spots one, two and three.
In fact, eight of the top 10 pizzas in the country are right here in the tri-state, according to the ranking.
Shocking no one, Frank Pepe's white clam pie claimed the top spot.
Here's a look at every other tri-state pizza that made the list: The "DoughDici" pizza is all the rage right now and Joelle stops by Sofia Pizza Shoppe to find out how you can snatch tickets to devour the delicious and very exclusive $38 pie.
Jennifer Lopez has put her $26.95 million Midtown penthouse on the market, according to reports.
The condo sits atop the Whitman, a luxury, boutique condominium on East 26th Street.
Lopez and her beau Alex Rodriguez are reportedly searching for a new place to call home and the pop musician is looking to sell the 6,540-square-foot duplex and all the amenities that come with it, including a rooftop putting garden and shallow terrace, Curbed.com reported.
Real estate broker Adam Modlin of The Modlin Group has listed the penthouse as "the crown jewel of The Whitman," the luxury four-condo building the penthouse sits atop.
Jennifer Lopez has pledged to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Gov.
Cuomo also announced a website to organize the recovery effort in the state.
New York Comic Con returned to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center Thursday to bring together some of pop cultures biggest fans.
People eagerly walked through security in full costume to join thousands of comic book and pop culture fans.
In 2016, an estimated 185,000 fans attended Comic Con New York, this year the event is completely sold out.
The event runs through Sunday.
NY Live pays a visit to NY Comic Con 2017 and meets some very interesting characters.
The United States' eclectic cultural landscape and diverse array of people makes every city different from the next.
And each one of those cities has its own unique corner, the neighborhood that takes the vibe of that city and condenses it down to a few streets that brim with color and must-visit destinations.
These are the top 10 neighborhoods to visit, according to Lonely Planet.
A neighborhood in Brooklyn scooped up one of the spots.
The changing face of New York City couldn't be more evident than in one small section of Brooklyn.
The late NBC 4 journalist Gabe Pressman took a stroll through the tight-knit community of Sunset Park in 2013, where he found the neighborhood was booming.
TICKETS VENUES MAPS GET HERE GET AROUND STAY EAT How to Get Here Driving Directions Travel Time: approx.
2 hours, 45 minutes.
Distance: 105 miles (173 km) Take the Queens Midtown Tunnel to I-495 East (Long Island Expressway).
Take Exit 70, onto Route 111 South.
Take Route 111 South approximately 5 miles to Route 27 East (Montauk Highway).
Follow Route 27 East into the village of East Hampton (approx.
30 miles).
The main festival venue is the United Artists Theater in the center of town on the right.
Railroad Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) stations are conveniently located near theaters in Southampton and East Hampton.
Jitney Hampton Jitney Hampton Jitney offers convenient direct motorcoach service from various stops in New York City to the Hamptons for the film festival.
Arriving via JFK or LaGuardia?
Hampton Jitney has a convenient airport connection stop just a short taxi ride from the airport.
Forget Taco Tuesday, it's all about Taco Wednesday this year.
That's right, Oct. 4 is National Taco Day and restaurant chains across the tri-state are celebrating with some tasty deals.
Here's a look at five of them: Taco Bell: Taco Bell is encouraging customers to spread the love this National Taco Day with a $5 gift set.
The gift set includes four tacos: a Crunchy Taco, a Nacho Cheese Doritos Locos Taco, a Cool Ranch Doritos Locos Taco and a Fiery Dorito Locos Taco.
On the Border: Participating On the Border locations are serving up 50 cent tacos for customers dining in Wednesday.
You can find a location near you here.
Chevys Fresh Mex: Chevys is giving out free tacos for a year at some locations in honor of National Taco Day, but there's a catch.
Participating restaurants are adding the "Titan Taco" to their menu for the holiday and inviting diners to participate in the "No Mas Taco Challenge."
The first five challengers at each location to finish the $30, four-pound taco will win free tacos for a year.
California Tortilla: California Tortilla, which has locations in New Jersey, is offering up buy one, get one free tacos in honor of National Taco Day Wednesday.
There is a limit of five free tacos per person.
Qdoba: Customers can receive a free drink or free chips and salsa when they sign up for Qdoba's loyalty program on National Taco Day.
Find locations near you here.
A member of the Secret Service patrols in front of the White House, which was illuminated in pink for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, in Washington, D.C., on Oct. 1, 2017.
The White House lit up a bright shade of pink Sunday night to kick off Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
First lady Melania Trump tweeted a photo of her hot pink view from inside the White House, saying, "In honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month we lit the @WhiteHouse pink!"
In a statement, Trump encouraged women to talk to their doctors about mammograms and what they can do to reduce their risk of getting the disease.
"More than 250,000 American women and 2,000 men will likely be diagnosed with some form of breast cancer in 2017.
Because of early detection and improved treatment options, deaths from breast cancer have decreased significantly in the last decade, but there is still work to be done," read a statement from the White House.
Beyonc and Jay-Z have scooped up a 12,000-square-foot home in East Hampton for $26 million, according to reports.
Take a look inside.
Photographs from 1930s New York City capture a time of scarcity but also show a bold urban landscape gearing up for the economic and social whirlwind of the mid-20th century.
In the 1930s, the Federal Art Project was set up as part of the New Deal to fund visual arts in the United States.
This included support for photographers, who turned their camera lenses to the faces and places of a dynamic metropolis.
The Museum of the City of New York has archived many of these photos.
More photos can be found at the museum's online Collections Portal.
Taylor Swift rented a charming carriage house in the heart of New York City's West Village for a time in 2016 while her Tribeca apartment was being renovated, according to published reports.
We first told you about the listing in April, when the "exceptional and unique" home hit the market for $24.5 million.
Now it's had a price cut, so it can be yours for $19,995,000.
You can see the full listing with Corcoran here.
This recently opened 'Oscar Wilde' bar in New York City is dedicated to the famous author, and has been lavishly decorated to celebrate the excesses of the Victorian era.
The sumptuous new venue, dedicated to writer Oscar Wilde, apparently has the longest bar in NYC.
Thrillist has ranked the top burgers in America and New Yorkers have a number to choose from.
(Published Friday, May 26, 2017) 13 of the 100 Best Burgers in America Are Right in Your Backyard Attention, Cheeseburgers lovers!
Monday is National Cheeseburger Day and restaurants across the country are serving up tasty deals in honor of the national holiday.
Here are 10 deals for you: Burger King 2 for $6 Whopper mix and match BJs Restaurant and Brewhouse Bacon Cheeseburger and Fries for $9.99 Johnny Rockets - Free burger when you join the Rocket E-Club DISCLAIMER: Please read all coupon details and call your local store to make sure the offer is eligible for your location.
Treat yourself to 3 delicious desserts for dinner tonight.
(Published Friday, July 21, 2017) Oreo is about to release a limited-edition cookie butter flavor in time for the fall season.
"Today" reports the Cookie Butter Oreos will be available in stores nationwide beginning Monday.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel The actual cookies are graham-flavored, and the cream filling is cookie butter-flavored.
"Today" notes the popularity of cookie butter has skyrocketed in the past few years, particularly among the Trader Joe's set addicted to cult-favorite Speculoos Cookie Butter.
(Trader Joe's, incidentally, has its own version of the cookie butter cookie.)
A listing for Cookie Butter Oreo sandwiches on sites like Target confirm the existence of the cookies -- though they're not available to order just yet.
Helll Yeah!!
Cookie Butter Oreo's have made it to Target's webpage,they are currently unavailable because the official drop is Monday, now due to different DSD delivery zones they might start popping up this weekend, I am not sure if they are Target exclusive yet.
Who is hyped for these?
I know I am I will keep you guy's posted on more new Oreo's to come soon A post shared by Markie (@markie_devo) on Sep 12, 2017 at 4:48pm PDT In the meantime, Oreo's fall favorite flavors are still being sold: apple pie, pumpkin spice, mocha, red velvet and even orange-flavored Halloween.
There's are also the salted caramel and coconut Oreo thins.
Grab your scarves and pumpkin-flavored everything, New Yorkers!
Autumn is almost here and New York is brimming with events celebrating food, art, nature and culture.
From food festivals and Halloween parades, to art fairs and scenic hikes, there is no shortage of fun things to do this season.
We've found 15 great events happening in and around the Big Apple this fall.
1.
Taste Some of the Best Street Food in NYC at the Vendy Awards Find out for yourself which publicly nominated vendor is the best by sampling unlimited food and beer at the 13th annual street food competition.
(Sept. 16) Price: $100 2.
Unite with Bookworms and World-Renowned Authors at the Brooklyn Book Festival You might bump into your favorite author at the Brooklyn book festival, the largest free literary event in New York.
From international stars to emerging authors, this festival is book lovers dream.
(Sept. 17) Price: Free 3.
Enjoy a Day Full of Beer, Music, Science and Art at the New York Botanical Gardens Blues, Brew, and Botany Sample beer, listen to music and learn from experts about the science behind it all while taking in views of CHIHULY sculptures in a garden landscape.
(Sept. 23-24) Price: Non-Members $43, Members $15 4.
View Artwork From Around the World in a Historical Setting at the 10th Annual Governor's Island Art Fair Featuring works of 100 carefully selected artists from around the world, this unique art fair encourages conversation between artists and visitors.
It was originally launched by 4heads, an artist-run non-profit organization that recognized the cultural importance of Governors Island.
(Weekends from Sept. 2 - Oct. 1) Price: Free 5.
Enjoy Everything Vegan at the New York Vegan Food and Drink Festival You may not realize the cheese isnt real!
Even non-vegans can enjoy this vegan food festival, featuring 100 of the top local and international vendors.
Attendees should expect the very best comfort food, wine, beer and more--all 100 percent vegan.
(Oct. 1) Price: $10 6.
Celebrate All Things Fall at the Kickoff to Fall at Queens County Farms Nothing says fall more than fresh apple cider, pumpkin patches and a home-baked pie.
Celebrate the start of autumn with the whole family at Queens County Farm, where you can listen to live country music, get lost in the Amazing Maize Maze and pick your favorite pumpkin.
(Oct. 1) Price: Free 7.
Experiance Munich in NYC at Oktoberfest You dont have to travel across the country to enjoy authentic German beer, live music and everything that makes the genuine Oktoberfest atmosphere.
You can experience it right here in New York, with some of the best food and steins while taking in breathtaking skyline views of the city.
(Sept. 15 - Oct. 2) Price: Free 8.
Enjoy a Great Meal With an Even Better View at Rooftop Reds' Harvest Dinner The only thing better than a delicious meal and good wine is delicious meal and good wine with a gorgeous view.
New York City's only rooftop vineyard is hosting a farm-to-table Harvest Dinner on Sunday, Sept. 16 at 6:30 p.m.
The event includes a wine reception and a four-course dinner with wine pairings for each course.
(Sept. 17 at 6:30 p.m.) Price: $150 9.
Eat and Drink Wine For a Good Cause During The New York City Wine and Food Festival Imagine drinking the finest wine and indulging in delicious dishes made by celebrity chefs while simultaneously helping end world hunger.
This Food Network- and Food & Wine Magazine- sponsored event donates all proceeds to charity and has raised millions for those in need.
All you have to do is eat and drink all you can.
(Oct. 12 - 15) Price: $40-$300 10.
But First, Coffee..and Then Some More at the New York Coffee Festival The New York Coffee festival gives you unlimited access to more than 100 exhibitors, along with interactive workshops, seminars and demonstrations from world-class baristas.
Enjoy multiple cups of joe, live music, art exhibitions and street food at this festival that donates all profits to Project Waterfall, an organization bringing clean water to coffee-producing countries.
(Oct. 13 - 15) Price: $24.50 11.
See New York Like You've Never Seen it Before at the Open House New York Open House New York provides the public with access to extraordinary architecture and off-limits sites just for the weekend.
Open House New York celebrates the planning and urban design of the city as well as the people who help build and preserve it.
(Oct. 14 and 15) Price: Free 12.
Enjoy Cider All Over the City During New York City Cider Week Enjoy fresh craft cider at your favorite restaurant, bars and retail shops all across New York City.
Cider Week also includes free tastings, dinners and classes.
(Oct. 20 - 29) 13.
Watch Hundreds of Dogs All Dressed Up at the NYC Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade You might find a princess Pomeranian or a rock-star Rottweiler at the countrys largest Halloween Dog Parade.
If a park full of dogs doesn't sounds irresistible enough, this community fundraiser will have a runway competition and the winner will receive thousands of dollars in prizes.
(Oct. 21) Price: Free, Suggested donation is $5 14.
Step into an Immersive Photographic Village at Photoville Freight containers were transformed into into galleries to make this one of a kind photo festival.
Featuring indoor and outdoor exhibitions, the event includes talks, hands-on workshops, nighttime programming, a beer garden, food vendors, picturesque views of the city and more.
(Sept. 13 - 17 and 21 - 24) Price: Free 15.
Make a Statement at the NYC Village Halloween Parade Put on your boldest makeup, craziest wig or spookiest outfit!
The 44th New York City Village Halloween parade invites only those in costume to an unforgettable night featuring hundreds of giant puppets, more than 50 bands, dancers, artists and thousands of New Yorkers showing off their own unique and creative disguise.
(Oct. 31) Price: Free
On Sept. 15, 1954, photographer Sam Show captured the iconic "flying skirt" image of Marilyn Monroe.
It was on Lexington Avenue between 52nd and 53rd streets, part of a film shoot for "The Seven Year Itch."
Many have not seen the movie.
The entire world has seen the photo.
The world lost Monroe on Aug. 5, 1962.
Born Norma Jean Baker, she was perhaps the world's favorite sex symbol, with a mixture of sensuality and innocence.
She died at age 36 in her Brentwood home from a drug overdose.
Her life was short, but Monroe will live on forever as a global icon.
Take a look back at her life and career in photos.
Going to the movies in North Jersey just got a whole lot fancier.
AMC Theatres has opened a new, Ultra Lux dine-in theater in Hackensack, New Jersey, at The Shops at Riverside.
AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 opened Wednesday at the upscale shopping center.
The theater is the first of its kind for AMC.
It features reclining seats, cocktails and the option to have a variety of foods delivered right to your seat.
And were not talking about popcorn and hot dogs.
Wedge lettuce cups, poutine and sushi rolls are just a few of the items on the menu.
Tickets will run you between $14.42 and $16.02 depending on the time of day.
The new dine-in theater isnt the first for North Jersey.
iPic Hudson Lights opened in Fort Lee last year.
Take a look inside AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 below.
Take a look inside North Jersey's fanciest new movie theater.
Courtesy: AMC Theatres
Actor couple Emily Blunt and John Krasinski bought a stunning townhouse in Park Slope less than a year ago.
As of this week, the 5,200-square-foot, seven-bedroom haven is back on the market.
And according to Curbed, it looks even more glorious than it did when they purchased it for $6 million in October.
The property at 586 4th Street is listed by Corcoran agents Karen Talbott and Kyle Talbott for $8 million.
You can see the full listing here.
Take a look inside.
Emily Blunt's Brooklyn home is on the market.
Nothing says fall fun like a day apple picking with the family.
Whether you're in it for the foliage, the hay rides or the apple cider donuts, there are plenty of great farms and orchards in the tri-state area to choose from.
Below is a look at 11 great options: Apply picking season is upon us.
Here's three simple tips from an expert for avoiding a bad apple.
In video games, Mario, the intrepid princess-saving plumber, does not usually pair up with anyone outside of the Mushroom Kingdom.
There are exceptions for special events, like Mario teaming up with Sonic the Hedgehog for the Olympics, but generally, the most iconic video game character doesnt use backup.
Until now.
The Mushroom Kingdom is in danger from an outside force in Mario + Rabbids Kingdom Battle, a new video game for the Nintendo Switch gaming console.
Mario and friends are getting help from the Rabbids, crazy rabbit-like creatures who speak in gibberish, yelling "BWAAAH!"
very often, from another gaming company, Ubisoft.
Creative director Davide Soliani said he and his team wanted to bring something to the Mario universe of games that no one had seen before, and using the Rabbids and their penchant for chaos and slapstick violence provided the perfect injection of new ideas for a bold take on Mario.
He said there is a familiarity in the overall look and feel of the game, but surprises are waiting around every corner.
We used these contrasts as a focus to bring new ideas, new game mechanics, new environments, and thats why you are in the Mushroom Kingdom, but it is twisted, Soliani said.
Mario is very well known as a hero, a brave guy.
And the Rabbids are quite the opposite, quite different.
How cool it could be if Mario, throughout the game, teaches to the Rabbids how to become heroes?
And Mario learns from the Rabbids how to crack a joke, to take it easy.
Mario is joined by his friends Princess Peach (no rescuing needed this time), Yoshi, and Luigi.
They team up with four Rabbid heroes who mimic their Nintendo idols, taking costumes to look like the original gang.
In the campaign, these characters will form teams of three to find a way to fix the Mushroom Kingdom by visiting different worlds and battling enemies.
We wanted make something that Mario players would recognize, like jumping and stomping, Soliani said.
But at the same time, we were using the Rabbids to inject in those mechanics new ways to spice up the combat, new ways to spice up the Nintendo characters as well.
The development team at Ubisoft specialized in tactical and strategic games.
Making a new game with such beloved characters presented challenges, but Soliani said a turn-based strategy shooter made the most sense to maximize the divergent ideas of gameplay and abilities in the game.
We should try to stay true to the Mario universe and mix tactical phase, combat phase, which is more in line with the Mario world, he said.
Finding treasure chests, collect coins to buy new weapons, meet new heroes and be challenged by new enemies.
When he came up with the idea for the mashup, Soliani knew he would have to not only convince his own company, Ubisoft, he would have to sway Nintendo to allow him to use their characters.
He met with Shigeru Miyamoto, the man who created the Mario character, originally called Jumpman, in the classic video game Donkey Kong in 1981.
Solaini said presenting his idea to the most legendary game designer in the world was intimidating.
When we first presented the game to Miyamoto-san, we had only three weeks in-house to come up with a prototype.
When we presented the prototype to Miyamoto-san, he was surprised that we had, in our prototype, Mario and Luigi.
Miyamoto asked how Solaini got the character designs for Mario and Luigi in the prototype.
Solani told him his team made them from scratch for the presentation, impressing the Nintendo game designer.
Early reviews of the game have been very good, mentioning the different elements of gameplay and the creativity used to bring Mario and the Rabbids together.
The style of combat is reminiscent of another turn-based shooter, X-COM, with a variety of weapons and the use of cover for defense.
However, Solaini said their inspiration came from another popular game.
Im a big fan of X-COM, the original one from Julian Gollop and the new one from (Jake) Solomon, he said.
But our reference was not X-COM but Mario Kart.
We wanted to bring the dynamics, the surprise that you have in go-cart racing to our combat system in a strategy game.
With delightful and recognizable characters, whimsical environments and dialog, and a battle system that combines movement and shooting into strategic combat, Solaini and his team were proud of what they accomplished.
Those were the basic foundations that we built up for the rest of the game.
When we did that, we said, OK, I think we have something very strong, something that we should explore even more.
He invited all fans, including diehard Nintendo fans, to experience something different.
Mario+Rabbids: Kingdom Battle is available now for the Nintendo Switch.
It is rated E+10 for everyone 10 years of age or older due to cartoon violence, comic mischief, and mild language.
Sure, New York City may not be known for its barbecue.
The city is more synonymous with pizza, bagels and pastrami sandwiches, but that doesn't mean you can't find any good barbecue here.
We took a look at check-in app Foursquare Swarm to see which barbecue joints diners visit the most in NYC.
To be clear, these are not necessarily the 11 best barbecue restaurants in the city, just the most popular, according to Foursquare.
Anthony "The Big Cheese" Mongiello helps you to make the most of your summer barbecue.
Cyndi Lauper appears to have dropped the asking price for her gorgeous home in Stamford, Connecticut, from $1.25 million to $935,000, according to the updated listing.
The French Country Colonial-style estate sits on the 1.58-acre property.
The 3885-square-foot home's interior was designed by Howard Kaplan, and includes three bedrooms, three-and-a-half bathrooms and three fireplaces.
Designer Vince Camuto, founder of Nine West, built the house in 1975.
Then, the house was assessed at $601,290.
See the listing.
The Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation is releasing hundreds of photos of New York City by the artist Carole Teller, who has lived in the East Village since the early 1960s.
The photos, which span the early 1960s to the early 1990s, capture a city undergoing immense change.
Greenwich Village, the Lower East Side and other neighborhoods are brought to life in Teller's photos.
Her street scenes encapsulate a bygone era and her portraits offer glimpses into the lives of people who have long since moved on.
The GVSHP plans to release more than 500 photos by Teller in the coming weeks and months.
You can find more of her photos on the GVSHP website.
NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but New Yorkers are still preparing for the solar eclipse.
Katherine Creag reports.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017) What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21 At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now Watch live eclipse coverage from across the nation here starting at 12 p.m.
ET.
New Yorkers are searching high and low for a pair of specialty sunglasses affixed with a solar filter ahead of Mondays much-anticipated Great American Eclipse.
Thousands of glasses have been delivered to stores in the city, but many of them have been scooped up in recent days, leaving last-minute searchers scrambling.
A long line of people formed outside of Adorama in Chelsea on Sunday afternoon.
Photo credit: @GhostLeeOne/Twitter Photos posted to social media on Sunday showed block-long lines of people hoping to bag a pair.
One of the longest lines was at Adorama in Chelsea.
The Great American Eclipse is already being overshadowed by the line to get a pair of solar eclipse glasses for The Great American Eclipse, @NYAdventureClub posted to Twitter along with a photo of a line.
Partial eclipse of the line @adorama for eclipse glasses, Eric McClure tweeted.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos At B&H in Midtown, there was a long line of people picking up online orders of the glasses.
The store was out of glasses for walk-in shoppers.
Multiple Best Buy stores in Manhattan and Queens had voice messages that said they too were sold out of the glasses.
Where, When and What to Wear?
Eclipse Questions Answered Where to watch, when to watch and what to wear on your eyes for the eclipse Monday.
(Published Sunday, Aug. 20, 2017) Some people are hoping to grab a pair at libraries or viewing parties during the eclipse on Monday.
Others plan to make their own pair using online tutorials.
"I'm going to make the little box, like you know, the little shoe box thing with the pinhole," Cynthia Webb said.
No matter what, its important not to view the sun without proper protection.
How to Protect Your Eyes During Solar Eclipse Come Monday, eyes will be on the sky to witness a rare solar eclipse.
In the tri-state, it won't be a total eclipse but people could still be risking their vision.
Roseanne Colletti has more.
(Published Wednesday, Aug. 16, 2017) Meanwhile, many people have made plans to attend a viewing party or to step outside at 2:44 p.m. for the maximum eclipse.
"I think I'll just try to find the tallest building I could go up in," Keenan Brooks said.
Customers of the Lovage Rooftop NYC on 40th Street can buy eclipse glasses with a cocktail, that is, if they don't sell out.
"We are 37 flights up in New York City in the middle of Midtown West."
manager Lindsay Benjamin said.
Over at the Haven Rooftop on 47th Street, Manager Monica Seo said she's got a long list of reservations for Monday.
If you're still planning your day, here are some of the places where you might be able to score solar eclipse glasses.
And here are some locations in the tri-state where you can watch the historic event.
Where to watch, when to watch and what to wear on your eyes for the eclipse Monday.
Where, When and What to Wear?
Your Eclipse Questions Answered What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21 At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now On Monday, August 21, hundreds of millions of people will get a chance to view the first total solar eclipse visible from the contiguous United States in nearly 40 years.
Here are some of the most asked questions about the historic event.
Whats the gist of Monday's solar eclipse?
Fourteen states are in the path of totality, called umbra.
The New York region will be experiencing a partial eclipse, or penumbra.
You can see a partial eclipse, where the moon covers only a part of the sun, anywhere in North America.
To see a total eclipse, where the moon fully covers the sun for a short few minutes, you must be in the path of totality.
The path of totality is a relatively thin ribbon around 70 miles wide that will cross the United States from West to East.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos When and where will the eclipse be viewable?
The first point of contact will be at Lincoln Beach, Oregon, at 12:05 p.m. EDT.
Totality begins there at 1:16 p.m. EDT.
Over the next hour and a half, the eclipse will cross through Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, Montana, Nebraska, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and North and South Carolina.
The total eclipse will end near Charleston, South Carolina, at 2:48 p.m. EDT.
From there the lunar shadow leaves the United States at 4:09 EDT.
Its longest duration will be near Carbondale, Illinois, where the sun will be completely covered for two minutes and 40 seconds.
10 Things To Know About the Upcoming Solar Eclipse How many people will be able to see the eclipse?
An estimated 500 million people will be able to observe the total solar eclipse, in partial or total form: 391 million in the United States; 35 million in Canada; 119 million in Mexico; it will also be viewable in Central America, parts of South America and northwestern Europe.
When was the last total eclipse in the continental United States, and when is the next one after this year's?
The last time the contiguous United States saw a total eclipse was in February 1979.
The next one is in April 2024.
7 Total Eclipse Driving Tips Driving while the total solar eclipse is happening on August 21?
Here are seven tips that will ensure your safety while driving.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017) Who is capturing the eclipse?
Eleven spacecraft, at least three NASA aircraft, more than 50 high-altitude balloons, and the astronauts aboard the International Space Station are all offering a unique vantage point for the celestial event.
Where can I get special glasses to view the eclipse with?
A number of retail chains are selling official eclipse eyewear; among them are: 7-Eleven, Best Buy, Bi-Mart, Caseys General Store, Circle K, Hobby Town, Kirklands, Kroger, London Drugs, Loves Travel Stops, Lowes, Maverik, Pilot/Flying J, Toys R Us, and Walmart.
Libraries across the country are also giving away free eclipse glasses with support from NASA, Google, the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation, and the Space Science Institutes STAR_Net initiative.
More than 2 million ISO-compliant solar eclipse glasses have been handed out to more than 6,900 libraries.
To find out which libraries are holding eclipse-related events and distributing the free glasses, see the library map on the STAR_Net website.
Are there any basic safety tips while watching the eclipse?
Eclipse glasses are an essential tool, but unfortunately some aren't safe to use, so you shouldn't use any eclipse glasses that haven't been verified as safe or properly certified (Amazon has recalled some).
Make sure the certified glasses youre using havent been damaged.
It's also important not to look at the eclipse with regular sunglasses or unfiltered binoculars, through a reflection, or through clouds or fog.
Phones and cameras need special solar filters or the eclipse could damage their lenses.
What are other ways to view the eclipse?
Trees with a lot of leaves will project the eclipse onto the ground.
Its one way you can view the eclipse without special glasses.
How to Protect Your Eyes During Solar Eclipse Come Monday, eyes will be on the sky to witness a rare solar eclipse.
In the tri-state, it won't be a total eclipse but people could still be risking their vision.
Roseanne Colletti has more.
(Published Wednesday, Aug. 16, 2017) When is the best time to view Mondays eclipse?
In the greater New York area, the eclipse begins at 1:23 p.m. on Monday, August 21, according to Andrew Yolleck, a STEM educator at Liberty Science Center in Jersey City.
This is when the moon starts passing over the sun.
Maximum eclipse will occur at about 2:44 p.m. and thats the time to best view the eclipse.
Its also when it will be darkest outside.
The moon will slowly move off of the sun after that, with the eclipse ending at 4 p.m. As of Friday, the weather looks good for viewing, with mostly clear skies in the forecast for the New York area.
Where is the best place to view the eclipse in the tri-state?
How dark will these areas get?
Areas further south in the tri-state will get the best view.
The southern tip of New Jersey, near Cape May, will see the moon covering 75 to 85 percent of the sun since the area is closest to the path of totality, which is cutting through the Southern states.
Areas closer to New York City will see about 71 percent of the moon covering the sun, according to Yolleck.
During maximum eclipse, it will be darkest in the areas further south.
In areas in the path of totality, it will be as dark as night for a couple of minutes.
In the New York City area it will still be light outside, although somewhat darker.
Here are some places to catch a glimpse of the eclipse in the tri-state area.
5 Things You Need to Know About the Total Solar Eclipse A total solar eclipse is going to be visible across parts of the U.S. this August.
But what is a total solar eclipse, exactly?
When was the last time one happened?
What should you look for?
Find out all that and more.
(Published Thursday, Aug. 17, 2017) Will the 2024 eclipse be visible in the New York region?
The next total solar eclipse will be great for East Coasters.
While people in the New York area will see about 70 to 75 percent of the sun covered on Monday, it will be even more than that in 2024.
Whats more, the path of totality where viewing of the eclipse is most optimal will be closer to the tri-state area.
People who travel Upstate or to cities like Buffalo will get a near-optimal view of the eclipse, according to Yolleck.
And those willing to head near the United States-Canada border, to places like Burlington, Vermont, will enter the path of totality.
Derek Jeter's wife has given birth to a baby girl, the Yankees say.
(Published Friday, Aug. 18, 2017) Derek Jeter is now the proud father of a beautiful baby girl, according to the Yankees.
The Yankees tweeted congrats to the 42-year-old former shortstop and his wife, Hannah, on the birth of their daughter Bella Raine Jeter Friday afternoon.
"We can't wait to meet her!"
the tweet said.
The Players Tribune -- a sports journalism site founded by Jeter echoed the Bronx Bombers' congratulations to the couple.
The tweet said the baby was born Thursday.
The celebrity couple hasn't commented yet.
Hannah Jeter announced in February on The Players Tribune that the couple was expecting.
In that February post, Hannah Jeter said she and her husband recognized their child would be born into an "extraordinary situation," but wanted their little girl and any possible kids beyond her to live as normal lives as possible.
Celebrity Baby Boom: Eric and Jessie James Decker "We dont want them to be defined by their dads name for them, we want him to just be 'Dad,'" Hannah Jeter wrote.
"That will be the piece of him theyll have that the rest of the world doesnt.
It will be special, and it will be theirs."
"Well let them know that they are strong and smart, and that they can do anything they put their minds to," she added.
"I hope theyll be honest like their father.
I hope theyll be stubborn like me.
I hope that they know what they want and wont settle for less."
As for whether any kids would play baseball like their future Hall of Fame father, Hannah Jeter wrote, "We're gonna have a little talk first."
The 26-year-old fashion model and Yankee legend tied the knot in Napa last summer.
Top Celebs: 'Grace Jones: Bloodlight And Bami' Premiere
A total solar eclipse is going to be visible across parts of the U.S. this August.
But what is a total solar eclipse, exactly?
When was the last time one happened?
What should you look for?
Find out all that and more.
5 Things You Need to Know About the Total Solar Eclipse On Monday, Aug. 21, millions of people in United States will be treated to a once-in-a-lifetime event: a total solar eclipse.
Unfortunately for New Yorkers, only a partial eclipse will be visible since the Empire State is not in the path of totality.
But that doesn't mean you can't enjoy the occasion or, at the very least, use the historic event as a good excuse to grab a drink with friends.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos Here's a look at some places to catch the eclipse in the tri-state area (and if you don't have the special solar glasses yet, here's where you can get them before Monday): Haven Rooftop: Enjoy the eclipse with a cocktail and a snack at Haven Rooftop, a glass enclosed rooftop bar located on top of the Sanctuary Hotel in Manhattan.
The bar will have a solar eclipse-themed cocktail named the Solar Negroni for you to sip on as you watch the eclipse.
More on Haven Rooftop here.
American Museum of Natural History: Those interested in the educational aspect of the solar eclipse can visit the American Museum of Natural Historys total solar eclipse event on Monday at the Rose Center for Earth and Space.
The afternoon will include various events before, during and after the eclipse, which will be streamed live by NASA.
More on the event here.
The Dubliner: Just steps from Hoboken Terminal, The Dubliner, will host a rooftop solar eclipse viewing party.
Attendees can grab a drink while looking at the eclipse with a pair of free glasses.
More on The Dub Pub here.
Liberty Science Center: Have questions about the eclipse that you want answered?
Liberty Science Center's STEM team will be available Monday during the science center's event Monday.
They will stream a remote broadcast of the eclipse, explain the historic event and provide the safety equipment neccessary for you to try to catch a gimpse yourself.
More on the event here.
Brooklyn Grange: Brooklyn's rooftop farm, Brooklyn Grange, is hosting a yoga retreat and viewing party for the solar eclipse.
The afternoon event includes a farm tour, yoga class and an evening cocktail.
More info on Brooklyn Grange here.
Connecticut River Solar Eclipse Cruise: Take in the partial solar eclipse on the Connecticut River on a 2-hour cruise from 1:30-3:30 p.m. Monday.
Special viewing glasses will be provided.
More on the cruise here.
Intrepid: New Yorkers have the opportunity to watch the eclipse on the flight deck of the Intrepid, free with admission.
Beginning at 12 p.m., the first 500 guests will be provided free NASA-approved glasses so they can view the eclipse safely.
More on the event here.
New York Hall of Science: In Queens, a viewing party will be held at the New York Hall of Science from 1 to 4 p.m.
Some safety glasses will be provided and shared and guests will have the opportunity to make their own pinhole projector.
More on the watch party here.
Once the eclipse happens, you will want to take a photo.
Here are some tips for safely photographing the historic event with your phone.
10 Things To Know About the Upcoming Solar Eclipse
When you bring your new shelter dog home, there are a few things you should keep in mind.
First up: learn how to read your pup's body language to know his or her mood.
Living in an apartment with your canine companion isnt much different from living with a human roommate: They don't clean, they dont pay for groceries and you're starting to suspect they don't even have a job.
But canine roommates present additional, unique challenges.
Arguably the biggest challenge for dog owners in apartments is having to escort their furry friend outside for all exercise and all bathroom breaks.
That means rain, shine, sleet, snow, 6 a.m. or 3 a.m. or 11:30 p.m. buddy, youve got to put on your pants.
The Luxurious Lifestyle of New York's Poshest Pooches Ashley and Cooper get a taste of the high life, New York style.
From a five-star hotel exclusively for dogs to a puppy pool party in the Hamptons, it's clear that NYC really has gone to the dogs!
(Published Thursday, Aug. 17, 2017) "If youre living in an apartment with a dog, first and foremost the onus is more on you to get the dog out for all of his or her needs," says Mike Kaviani.
Kaviani is the Director of Lifesaving Operations at the no-kill shelter Austin Pets Alive!
in Austin, Texas, and he says apartment living can in some cases actually benefit your pup.
"As long as the owner is committed to getting the dog out for fun outings, the dogs actually end up getting more activity and more outings and more time with their person," he says.
Kaviani knows from personal experience: He lived in a studio apartment with the first dog he owned as an adult, and he recalls having to "leash him up and go out there."
"As long as you're willing to do that I mean, he had so much activity."
With multiple daily outings, Kaviani realized he and his pup were both getting more activity because of their apartment lifestyle.
"So, I actually think it can be a real win for the dog," he said.
6 Health Benefits of Owning a Pet Anthony Newman, a canine behavior consultant in New York City, echoes Kaviani on the activity level of house dogs versus that of apartment dogs.
"Often, in fact, I find dogs in suburban areas suffer from 'suburban dog syndrome,' lacking adequate socialization, exercise and leadership due to lack of regular daily owner-led walks, obedience work and daily off-leash social play in dog parks," Newman says.
He says he noticed his family's dogs, while growing up in the suburbs of St. Louis, had behavior issues stemming from lack of discipline and socialization.
"City dogs can end up being the calmest, most social, peaceful and obedient dogs around," Newman noted.
No matter how committed you are to your apartment dog, however, you're going to have to leave him or her alone sometimes.
And since apartments do not have doggie doors, your pup can't just stroll outside for business purposes.
If you know that you wont be able to get back to walk your pup at the usual time, thats fine you can hire a professional or convince a trusted neighbor to come by to walk your dog.
There is likely a dog-walking service of some kind in your neighborhood research online and ask other dog owners in the area to find a service that works for you.
Try to meet the person wholl be walking your dog if theyre going to be doing so on a regular basis.
6 Free Apps for Pet Owners You should also give a trusted person in your building a set of your keys; if youre away and the building needs to be evacuated for any reason, youll want someone to help get your pup out, too.
Speaking of neighbors, they present another significant difference between apartment dog life and house dog life.
You should make an effort to introduce your dog to your apartment neighbors, especially those who live on your floor and those directly above you and below you.
Its also a good idea to introduce yourself to anyone in your building with young children you can let parents know whether your dog is cool with kids.
Make clear to your neighbors what your dog's boundaries are, and be consistent in your interactions with them.
Another thing about apartment neighbors is their physical proximity to you.
It's important to remember that dogs are not silent.
Barking is not the only noise dogs make they like to play, to run around and toss and catch.
And its fine to play those games indoors with your dog, but if you have people below you, just keep in mind what time of day or night it is when you break out that hard plastic toy your dog likes to throw against the floor.
If your floors arent carpeted, getting an area rug (probably not an expensive one) will help muffle noises for people below and will also help protect hardwood floors from scuffing.
Tips for Keeping Your Pet Safe in the Summer Heat With record temperatures around the country, it is important to keep your dogs in mind when it comes to keeping cool.
Check out these tips for keeping your pets safe in the heat.
(Published Friday, Aug. 4, 2017) If your dog reacts to your absence by barking herself hoarse while you are gone, this is a problem (unless you never leave, but that actually sounds like a different kind of problem).
Not only will this incessant row irritate your neighbors maybe enough to complain to your landlord its also a sign that your pup isnt able to relax when you go out to do the human stuff you have to do.
"Separation anxiety," says Newman, can be a problem for your nervous pet, and then for you and even your neighbors some dogs bark, or whine, to express their anxiety.
To help curb some of that separation anxiety, Newman emphasizes the importance of creating a calm, relaxing space for your pup within your apartment.
If she views the apartment as the place where you and she play around and have fun and not as the place where you do that AND the place where she hangs out and sleeps in her own bed "when you leave, [s]he barks and tears the place up.
Also guarding, digging, chewing, and other destructive behaviors" can present as symptoms of separation anxiety.
How to Train Your Dog Like a Pro The most important thing to know about training your new pup, according to Petco dog trainer Chloe Sternlicht, is that dogs respond best to positive reinforcement.
So be patient when Fido makes a mistake and smother him with praise and treats when he get it right.
Sternlicht gives some tips for getting your dog to respond to basic commands.
(Published Monday, July 24, 2017) Newman says to help your dog get accustomed to chilling solo in a new living environment, it's best to make sure your pet's "exhausted and fulfilled mentally, physically and socially, and feeling comfortable at home with her bed, toys and chews" before leaving her alone in the place.
Kaviani recommends teaching your dog new tricks or providing them with brain-stimulating puzzle toys indoors to keep them entertained in the smaller space.
So, if you've got an apartment but want a dog, or if you've got a dog but want to move into an apartment, you should start by considering your dog's needs and temperament, Kaviani says.
"If the dog can handle being in an elevator with strange people, and sometimes strange dogs," he shouldn't have an unusually rough time adapting to apartment lifestyle.
Tips for Keeping Your Pet Safe in the Summer Heat With record temperatures around the country, it is important to keep your dogs in mind when it comes to keeping cool.
Check out these tips for keeping your pets safe in the heat.
(Published Friday, Aug. 4, 2017) "Where it can go poorly, or where youll find some challenges, though, would be if the context or living environment isnt conducive to the dogs needs," says Kaviani.
He cautions that if you have a dog with some shyness or some fearful behavior, they may not be comfortable hopping in and out of elevators or winding their way through crowded hallways and staircases.
You should do your best to find a living space that won't cause too much additional stress on your pet.
But, he says, "don't overthink it."
"Dogs dont need a mansion to live in.
They dont need a certain amount of square footage to meet their standards.
Really, when theyre home, they just want to chill with you, their person."
The living arrangement would only become a problem, he says, if your work or life schedule isn't "conducive to spending a good amount of time with your dog."
Retriever Fever: America's Most Popular Dogs, in Photos Apartment living with your dog requires a more serious commitment than living with your dog in a house with a fenced-in yard.
Anthony Newman's tips for moving yourself and your dog(s) to a new apartment:
Ashley and Cooper get a taste of the high life, New York style.
From a five-star hotel exclusively for dogs to a puppy pool party in the Hamptons, it's clear that NYC really has gone to the dogs!
Copyright LXTV
Driving while the total solar eclipse is happening on August 21?
Here are seven tips that will ensure your safety while driving.
(Published Monday, Aug. 21, 2017) What to Know NYC won't be in the "path of totality" but it'll still be quite a spectacle; the moon will start to cover the sun at 1:23 p.m. Aug. 21 At 2:44 p.m., it'll be at its maximum coverage (about 70 percent to 75 percent), and the partial eclipse will end at 4 p.m.
The only safe way to look directly at uneclipsed or partially eclipsed sun is through special-purpose solar filters, so get your glasses now If you're hoping to view the total solar eclipse coming up Monday, you're going to need a pair of specialty sunglasses affixed with a solar filter.
But -- as we mentioned -- that eclipse is coming up Monday.
That means you have just one day to score a pair if you haven't yet.
And they've been notoriously difficult to nab.
Here are a few options in the city, but you should call first to make sure they're still in stock (and if you're not sure where to get the best view in the tri-state, here are a list of spots): GO TO THE LIBRARY Check your local library branch.
STAR_Net, a national science and technology resource for libraries, sent millions of eclipse glasses to libraries across the country, including some in New York.
Branches in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, Pelham Bay, Bronx and Glendale, Flushing and the Rockaways in Queens are among the ones that got them, according to Curbed.
You may have to attend one of their eclipse parties to get a pair, the website says, so call in advance to doublecheck.
The Coast-to-Coast Total Solar Eclipse in Photos VISIT A WARBY PARKER Eyeglass company Warby Parker is giving out free solar eclipse glasses (limit of two per person), according to Brokelyn.
The website says Warby Parker's Brooklyn location is already out of eyewear, but the company's SoHo, Meatpacking District and Upper East Side still has some (call ahead to be sure).
Eclipse Tourism: Are These Small Towns Ready?
Madras, Oregon, and hundreds of other small towns across America have suddenly become tourist destinations for next Monday's eclipse, whether they're ready for it or not.
(Published Monday, Aug. 14, 2017) TRY A MUSEUM The American Museum of Natural History will host a viewing party from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Monday.
Solar eclipse glasses will be available for purchase.
BUY ONLINE -- LIKE, NOW Most would-be eclipse viewers will likely have more luck shopping online, assuming you can get them shipped ASAP.
Amazon still has viewing glasses in stock, but most appear to be sold in packs of five or more for around $39.
But be careful -- Amazon recalled some counterfeit solar eclipse glasses earlier in the week.
According to a company spokesperson, people who purchased the counterfeit glasses have been notified and will receive refunds.
Despite the recall, there are plenty of brands on Amazon and other shopping websites with the appropriate ISO certification for standardized products.
The American Astronomical Society maintains a list of reputable vendors for glasses with the appropriate filter.
Official glasses should have language printed on them indicating they were built to "conform to the transmission requirements of ISO 12312-2" and "Filter for Direct Observation of the Sun."
IF ALL ELSE FAILS NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory has a guide to making your own pinhole camera for safely viewing the solar eclipse.
All you'll need is two pieces of white card stock, aluminum foil, tape and a pin or paper clip.
Houston Texans star J.J. Watt announced his plans for the more than $30 million in donations he raised for Hurricane Harvey relief on Thursday, naming four partners who would receive $31.5 million within the next two years.
The partners -- Americares, Feeding America, SBP and Save the Children -- are expected to use the funds to rebuild homes, restore childcare centers, provide food and address Houston residents' health needs in the areas impacted by the storm.
The remaining money, nearly $7 million, will be held for distribution in 2018.
"While I understand the total recovery from Hurricane Harvey could require upwards of $200 billion," Watt said in a statement, "and this $37 million will not be able to help every single person as I so badly wish it could, I have made it my mission to ensure this money makes as large of an impact as possible."
Brett Coomer/Houston Chronicle via AP "I cannot thank everyone enough for their support and donations from across the country and around the world," Watt said in a video.
"Houston will bounce back from this and we will rise up stronger than ever."
Watt, 28, announced his fundraiser at the end of August and set the initial goal at $200,000.
Within a matter of days, more than 160,000 donated more than $27 million.
"Just to see the snowball effect, and to see how much good there is out there, and how many people wanted to get involved was ... incredible," Watt said in an interview with "Good Morning America" co-anchor Michael Strahan last month.
"I've seen little girls set up lemonade stands.
I've seen kids trying to sell, you know, Popsicles on the road.
I've seen businesses offering up ... portions of their sales or all of their sales.
...
It's been truly something incredible to witness."
When actress and activist Ashley Judd was debating whether to come forward with allegations that movie producer Harvey Weinstein had sexually harassed her, she had no idea whether anyone would care about or believe her accusations or similar ones from dozens of other women.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest "I'm very blessed to be here," Judd told Sawyer in her first television interview about her Weinstein allegations.
I made the most important decision I'll ever make years ago, which is to turn my will and my life over to the care of a loving God, and it was like, I'm so taken care of.
I'm totally going to do this, Judd said she also talked with her parents about going forward, and she said her mother, singer Naomi Judd, told her to go get him.
Perpetrators are shameless, Ashley Judd said.
And they put their toxic shame onto their victims, which we then internalize and carry around with us.
Judd, 49, is one of more than 60 women who have come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct against the movie mogul.
Nearly 20 women allege the misconduct occurred in the late 90s around the same time Judd said she had an inappropriate encounter with him.
Judds coming forward helped spark a conversation and an online campaign called, #MeToo, in which people used the hashtag to reveal they had been victims of sexual assault and sexual harassment, was shared millions of times on social media.
"Some of my friends have come forward, and some of them have not," Judd said.
"We have more #MeToo's to help liberate others."
Oscar winners Angelina Jolie, Gwyneth Paltrow, Lupita Nyong'o and Mira Sorvino claimed that they rebuffed Weinstein's unwanted advances.
Other women have alleged sexual harassment, sexual assault and rape.
"I'm very sorry for Gwyneth," Judd said.
"I am delighted that she came forward.
I think it's incredibly powerful she did.
At the time, I didn't know that I knew anything."
Weinstein has denied all allegations.
A spokesperson for the movie executive told The New Yorker: "Any allegations of non-consensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr.
Weinstein."
"Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances.
Mr. Weinstein obviously cant speak to anonymous allegations, but with respect to any women who have made allegations on the record, Mr. Weinstein believes that all of these relationships were consensual," according to the full statement from Weinstein's spokesperson.
"Mr. Weinstein has begun counseling, has listened to the community and is pursuing a better path.
Mr. Weinstein is hoping that, if he makes enough progress, he will be given a second chance."
Play Twenty years ago, the Kentucky native was a young actress filming the movie Kiss the Girls when she said Weinstein invited her to a Beverly Hills hotel for a business meeting.
"I had a business appointment which is as-- that's, you know, his pattern of sexual predation.
That was how he rolled," she said.
But when she got there, she said Weinstein, now 65, had her sent up to his room.
"And I was like, ugh, are you kidding me?'"
she said.
At the time, Judd said, she had already experienced sexual predation.
She has written about being sexually assaulted as a young girl and the terror of feeling trapped during such situations.
When she got to Weinstein's room, Judd said Weinstein asked to give her a massage and then asked for her to give him one, she added.
"I fought with this volley of nos, which he ignored," Judd said.
"Who knows?
Maybe he heard them as maybe.
Maybe he heard them as yeses.
Maybe they turned him on."
She said he steered her into a hallway near a closet and asked her to pick out his suit to wear for the day.
"I have totally frozen in my mind the floor plan... and where the door was behind me, and then eventually where that closet was," she said.
Judd said she wouldn't sit down, but remained standing as she cowered in the hall for a few minutes.
At one point, she said Weinstein asked her to come into the bathroom and watch him take a shower.
Exasperated, Judd said she offered a sort of deal to Weinstein to get him to back off so she could leave.
"He kept coming back at me with all this other stuff," she said.
"And finally I just said, 'When I win an Oscar in one of your movies, OK?'
And he was like, 'Yeah, when you get nominated.'
I said, 'No, when I win an Oscar.'
And then I just fled.'"
After she left Weinstein's hotel room, Judd said she told her parents some details about what had happened said they could see she was visibly shaken.
She said she also told agents and others who worked in Hollywood, but no action was taken.
"I knew it was disgusting," she said.
"And if I could go back retrospectively with a magic wand and say ...
I wish I could prevent it for anyone always.'
And, no, I don't know that I would have been believed.
And who was I to tell?"
At the time, Judd said, she didn't feel powerful enough to come forward.
She recalled once sitting at a table with a few other actresses in the late-1990s and Weinstein walked by.
"And I was like, 'Let me just make sure that you know this, in case it hasn't happened to you yet,'" Judd said of what she told the other women.
"And they were like, 'Oh, yeah, yeah, he did that.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.'
And I was like, 'Oh, my gosh.'"
Judd said she was at a dinner event in 1999 when she decided to confront Weinstein.
She said Weinstein was talking to her and said, "Remember that little agreement we made?
Think I've got that script for you."
"He was across from me at a table, and...
I had come into my own.
I had come into my power.
I had found my voice, and I was coming right at him," she said.
"And he looked at me, across the table and he said, 'You know, Ashley, I'm going to let you out of that little agreement we made.'"
"And then I said, 'You do that Harvey, you do that.'
And he has spat my name at me ever since."
Judd first came forward with these allegations three weeks ago in an interview with the New York Times.
She had also previously shared these allegations in a 2015 interview with Variety, though she didnt name Weinstein at that time.
In the wake of the allegations, Weinstein was terminated by the board of the Weinstein Company and later resigned from the board of directors.
He was also expelled by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
After Judd came forward, Weinstein released a photo of him and Judd holding hands at a Vanity Fair Oscar Party, but Judd said the photo shows a terrified woman.
"I hoped I wouldn't pass him, but I did and he, obviously, grabbed my hand," she said.
"It's like the look on my face is abject terror.
I can see it in my eyes."
"It's very gross.
It's very gross.
I feel bad for that 28, 29-year-old woman," she said of her younger self.
Play Looking back what happened, Judd said that part of her feels ashamed that she didn't say "no" at the start and part of her is proud of herself for getting out of that situation.
"We all do the best we can, and our best is good enough," Judd added.
"And it's really OK to have responded however we responded."
Judd said she wasn't sure if she could ever confront Weinstein again.
When asked if she thought he belonged in jail, Judd said, "If he's a rapist, he absolutely should go to jail."
"I believe that there is hope and help for everyone.
It has to be the appropriate help.
And there has to be a real, profound understanding on the part of the sexual predator that what they were doing was wrong and criminal."
She has turned to her faith to find peace.
"When I spoke at the United Nations on the modern slave trade, I said my prayers beforehand," she said.
"I actually prayed last week and I said, 'Dear God, in case I forget to pray, please let this be the prayer.'"
Play What she would say to Weinstein today, she said, "is, 'I love you and I understand that you are sick and suffering, and there is help for a guy like you, too, and it's entirely up to you to get that help."
Judd said this is just the kind of person she is.
"Frankly, it's an easier way to roll through the world than the alternative," she said.
Jimmy Kimmel opened Wednesdays episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live with a short etiquette lesson for President Donald Trump, who described a recent meeting with GOP lawmakers as a love fest, noting that they even gave him a standing ovation.
Who wants to be the one who tells him that people are required to stand when the president enters the room?
the Jimmy Kimmel Live host said.
That's not an accomplishment.
That's like saying, every time I walk into a Starbucks, the guy behind the counter asks me if I want coffee, he added.
The meeting with Republican Senators yesterday, outside of Flake and Corker, was a love fest with standing ovations and great ideas for USA!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 25, 2017 Kimmel went on to share a video that showed Trump responding to a reporter who asked him if he thought he should be more civil.
Well, I think the press makes me more uncivil than I am.
You know, people don't understand.
I went to an Ivy League college.
I was a nice student.
I did very well.
I'm a very intelligent person, Trump said in the video.
Kimmel, appearing a bit confused, used the video as just another reason to mock the commander in chief.
When you're the president of the United States and you have to tell others that you're a very intelligent person, not a great sign, Kimmel noted.
Like Shaquille O'Neal had to say, 'Listen, I'm a very tall person.'
We'd be confused.
Julio Torres (@juliothesquare) offers some ideas for Halloween costumes, such as "A Raccoon, Foolishly Wearing All The Diamonds He Stole" pic.twitter.com/fulx4gLArG Fallon Tonight (@FallonTonight) October 25, 2017 The Tonight Show host Jimmy Fallon also opened his show with a few zingers about Trumps love fest comment.
He said that his big meeting with Republican senators was a love fest with multiple standing ovations, Fallon said.
Yep, they were mostly people getting up to leave, but still, that counts as a standing ovation.
Trump sent three tweets about how the senators gave him a standing ovation.
It's a big deal for Trump.
He hasn't seen 50 people cheering him on since his inauguration, he added.
"Late Night" host Seth Meyers offered an update to the president's ongoing battle with Sens.
Bob Corker, R, S.C., and Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., in his "Closer Look" segment.
Meanwhile, Trevor Noah, host of "The Daily Show" said he hopes to see more congressional Republicans speak out against Trump as Corker and Flake did.
"You may not like Flake or Corker for their overall politics, I understand this.
But think of it like this: In the crime ethic that is the Trump administration, they are basically like drug dealers who are trying to slip on the kingpin who has gone too far," Noah said.
"And I think we should encourage all Republicans against Trump to come out."
An author says he was "pleasantly shocked" after initiating social and corporate change via Twitter this week.
Marvel Comics writer Saladin Ahmed tagged the Kellogg Co. via tweet, citing artwork on cereal boxes he said teaches kids racism.
"Hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor?
this is teaching kids racism," he wrote, adding a photo of a Corn Pops box to the tweet.
In the photo, there are numerous bright yellow pops doing various things, while one is a darker shade of yellow or brown and appears to be waxing the floor or doing some kind of janitorial work.
The scribe continued, "Yes its a tiny thing, but when you see your kid staring at this over breakfast and realize millions of other kids are doing the same" hey @KelloggsUS why is literally the only brown corn pop on the whole cereal box the janitor?
this is teaching kids racism.
pic.twitter.com/Nh7M7IFawW Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 yes its a tiny thing, but when you see your kid staring at this over breakfast and realize millions of other kids are doing the same Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 24, 2017 Kellogg was quick to respond and jump into action.
"Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion.
We did not intend to offend we apologize.
The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon," the company tweeted Tuesday.
Kellogg is committed to diversity & inclusion.
We did not intend to offend we apologize.
The artwork is updated & will be in stores soon.
Kellogg's (@KelloggsUS) October 24, 2017 Kellogg also addressed the matter in a statement to ABC News, saying, "Kellogg Company has respect for all people, and our commitment to diversity and inclusion has long been a top priority.
We take feedback very seriously, and it was never our intention to offend anyone.
We apologize sincerely.
The package artwork has been updated and will begin to appear on store shelves soon as it flows through distribution."
Ahmed, an esteemed writer for the "Black Bolt" series, told ABC News, "I was pleasantly shocked at how quickly and decisively they responded."
He was also amazed by how technology can be used to create positive change.
today I used the computer in my pocket to get a cereal company to make their boxes less racist what even is the 21st century Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 25, 2017 or, yknow, cereal company changes box so the only brown character isnt the janitor https://t.co/W2iSpL5fVZ Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 25, 2017 The downside for Ahmed is that social media can also be a place for hate, as he told his followers he'd been getting "more slurs and threats than usual in my mentions right now.
Id appreciate folks reporting tweets along these lines.
I cant read any more."
He added to ABC News: "I've been both amused and disturbed to see how upset certain people were.
It was a relatively tepid tweet and Kellogg's is making a simple coloring change to future boxes, not recalling racist Corn Pops."
this single like makes up for the hundreds of racists in my mentions right now pic.twitter.com/iQG4rBVrE2 Saladin Ahmed (@saladinahmed) October 26, 2017 There's a lesson to be learned here, Ahmed adds, saying, "It's absurd to claim that the images and stories kids consume day after day after day have no impact on the way they think and look at the world.
Pictures tell stories.
'The only brown character in this story is the one cleaning up after everyone else' is a bad story.
Changing it isn't a big deal."
Marvel Comics and ABC News are owned by the Disney Co.
The daughter of late actor Paul Walker has settled her wrongful death lawsuit with Porsche two years after she claimed the car company was responsible for her father's death.
According to paperwork obtained by ABC Los Angeles station KABC, Meadow Walker and Porsche resolved the lawsuit earlier this month and will keep the terms of the settlement confidential.
Porsche has also settled a separate lawsuit filed by Paul Walker's father, Paul Walker III, who is the acting executor of his son's estate.
Attorneys for the Walkers and Porsche did not immediately respond when asked for comment.
Universal/Getty Images Paul Walker was 40 years old when the Porsche Carrera GT in which he was riding crashed into a tree near a charity event in Santa Clarita, California, on Nov. 30, 2013, and burst into flames.
Both Paul Walker and the driver, Roger Rodas, were pronounced dead at the scene.
Almost two years after the accident, Meadow Walker filed her lawsuit, claiming that the car's 605-horsepower engine and lack of safety features prevented Paul Walker from surviving the crash.
According to the lawsuit, Paul Walker was trapped due to the seat belt design and was alive for a full minute and 20 seconds after the crash, until the car "erupted into flames" and he died.
"The bottom line is that the Porsche Carrera GT is a dangerous car.
It doesn't belong on the street.
And we shouldn't be without Paul Walker or his friend, Roger Rodas," Meadow Walker's lawyer Jeff Milam told ABC News at the time.
About two months after Meadow Walker filed her lawsuit, Porsche alleged that the actor knew "knowingly and voluntarily assumed all risk, perils and danger in respect to the use of the subject 2005 Carrera GT."
In Porsche's original filing, the company said that the time of the car's manufacture and sale, the 2005 Carrera GT was comported with the state of the art and that its abuse, alteration and misuse caused or contributed to the incident and to Mr. Walkers death.
Days after director James Toback was accused by dozens of women of sexual harassment and, in some cases, assault over the years, Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams have shared their personal stories in first-person accounts with Vanity Fair.
On Sunday, The Los Angeles Times ran a report featuring 38 women accusing the "Two Girls and a Guy" and "The Pick-Up Artist" director of sexual misconduct.
Though he didn't reply to ABC News' request for comment Thursday, Toback, 78, told the Times that some of the women's allegations were "biologically impossible" due to medical conditions, such as diabetes and a heart condition that required medication.
In this new Vanity Fair report that ran Thursday afternoon, Blair and McAdams share similar stories that both include a hotel room and sexual innuendos.
Exclusive: @SelmaBlair and Rachel McAdams share their disturbing stories of sexual harassment by James Toback https://t.co/rjfMMwpsH4 pic.twitter.com/zFmyLdQkWf VANITY FAIR (@VanityFair) October 26, 2017 Blair, 45, said her meeting with Toback happened in 1999 after she filmed "Cruel Intentions."
She says that while she protested, Toback insisted she meet in his hotel room to talk about a new project called "Harvard Man," which would eventually star Sarah Michelle Gellar and Joey Lauren Adams as two of the female leads.
"Against my better judgment, I went upstairs," she told the magazine.
"I went in the room feeling a little off balance about the arrangement, but he seemed nonplussed.
He pulled out the script and said, 'I look at you, and I see that we have a real connection.
You could be an incredible actress, just by your eyes.
But I can tell you dont have confidence.'"
She says less than an hour into their meeting, he asked her to "do this monologue naked.
Tiziana Fabi/AFP/Getty Images After taking off her sweater, Blair says he asked if she would sleep with him.
She said, "No," but that when she "went to leave," he stopped her.
To avoid being assaulted, she says she conceded to let him touch her while he masturbated.
She says he also threatened her life if she ever talked about what happened.
"When my manager called me back and said, 'James Toback wants to see you again,' I said, 'That man is vile.
And I never want to be in a room with him again.
Do not send any girls or women to him,'" she said.
McAdams, 38, says she was also invited to his hotel room to read for "Harvard Man," where he allegedly admitted to masturbating while thinking about her.
"Eventually, I just excused myself.
I cant remember how long I was there.
I felt like I was there forever.
This has been such a source of shame for me -- that I didnt have the wherewithal to get up and leave," she told Vanity Fair.
While it's been a source of pain for the Oscar nominee over the years, she added, "I was very lucky that I left and he didnt actually physically assault me in any way."
"Sexual harassment is so pervasive, many women seem to have their own story.
I just think there is an anything goes [attitude] in Hollywood that gets taken too far," she added.
"This has all got to stop."
Toback told Vanity Fair that he had no comment on any of these new allegations.
Dozens of women have come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct against movie mogul Harvey Weinstein.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Oscar winners Angelina Jolie, Gwyneth Paltrow and Mira Sorvino have claimed that they rebuffed Weinstein's unwanted advances.
Other women have alleged sexual harassment and sexual assault.
"Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein," a spokesperson for the movie executive told The New Yorker.
"Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances.
Mr. Weinstein obviously cant speak to anonymous allegations, but with respect to any women who have made allegations on the record, Mr. Weinstein believes that all of these relationships were consensual," according to the full statement from Weinstein's spokesperson.
"Mr. Weinstein has begun counseling, has listened to the community and is pursuing a better path.
Mr. Weinstein is hoping that, if he makes enough progress, he will be given a second chance.
Weinstein was terminated by the board of the Weinstein Company in light of the allegations and later resigned from the board of directors.
He was also expelled by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Here is a list of women who spoke out on the record, along with their allegations against Weinstein.
(ABC News has reached out to Weinstein for comment on the recent allegations, but did not hear back.)
Natassia Malthe The actress and model claimed in a press conference that in 2008, Weinstein barged into her London hotel room, where he forced sexual intercourse on her and then masturbated in front of her.
"It was not consensual," she said.
"I laid still and closed my eyes and just wanted it to end.
I played dead."
After that encounter, she said she accepted a meeting with him at a Los Angeles hotel to discuss a potential movie role.
Though She said he promised her the get-together would be strictly professional, his assistant ushered her into his suite, where she said Weinstein asked her to engage in sexual activity with him and another woman.
She declined.
"Afterward, I called Harvey and yelled at him," she said.
"He became angry and said that he had given me an amazing opportunity and that I was an 'ungrateful c---.'"
After that, Malthe said she gave up on the possibility of the film and eventually, moved out of the United States.
"I felt that my dreams had been shattered," she said.
Malthe did not file a police report.
Her lawyer, Gloria Allred, has said the Weinstein Company should create a fund for women who can prove they were victimized.
Dominique Huett The actress, who has sued The Weinstein Co. for negligence, claimed in a court document that she met with Weinstein at a hotel seven years ago to discuss her career.
However, she alleged, the producer asked to move the meeting to his suite, where he demanded a massage, forced oral sex on her, and then masturbated in front of her.
The actress is seeking at least $5 million in damages, as she's alleged that board members were aware of Weinstein's misconduct and did nothing to prevent him from hurting women.
Representatives for the company did not immediately respond to a request for comment, though Bob Weinstein, a co-founder of the Weinstein Co. and Harvey Weinstein's younger brother, told The Hollywood Reporter earlier this month that he and his fellow board members "did not know the extent" of the allegations.
Mimi Haleyi At a news conference in New York City, Haleyi said she met Weinstein in 2004 in London at the European premiere of "The Aviator."
She ran into him again two years later and reached out to him to see whether she could help on one of his productions, she says.
Haleyi said he invited her to his hotel room to chat and then asked for a massage, which she declined before leaving.
She said she and Weinstein connected again two years later and he offered her a production job on a TV show he was producing.
After accepting the job and keeping up a cordial relationship over the next few meetings, she said, he started showing up at her apartment and even invited her to Paris.
Haleyi said she declined because she thought he intended for it to be a romantic trip.
Haley said Weinstein assaulted her in 2006 when he invited her to his home in New York City, where he backed her into a room and allegedly forced himself on her.
"He held me down on the bed," she said.
"I tried to get away.
...
He then orally forced himself on me."
Haleyi said she has yet to go to police but will discuss the matter with her lawyer, Allred.
Zelda Perkins Perkins told The Financial Times that two decades ago, she was working as Weinstein's assistant at Miramax in London when, she claims, he sexually harassed her and sexually assaulted a female colleague.
She says the two women ultimately settled with Weinstein for 250,000 (over $330,000), and in return, they signed non-disclosure agreements that prevented either of them from ever discussing the agreement.
"I want to publicly break my non-disclosure agreement," she told the publication.
"Unless somebody does this, there wont be a debate about how egregious these agreements are and the amount of duress that victims are put under.
My entire world fell in because I thought the law was there to protect those who abided by it.
I discovered that it had nothing to do with right and wrong and everything to do with money and power.
In response, Weinstein's spokesperson told The Financial Times: "The FT did not provide the identity of any individuals making these assertions.
Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein.
Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances."
Brit Marling The actress penned an essay for The Atlantic in which she detailed a 2014 meeting with Weinstein that she said was moved from a hotel bar to his suite at the last moment.
During that encounter, she claims that Weinstein asked her if she wanted a massage, champagne and strawberries before suggesting that they shower together.
"It was clear that there was only one direction he wanted this encounter to go in, and that was sex or some version of an erotic exchange.
I was able to gather myself together -- a bundle of firing nerves, hands trembling, voice lost in my throat -- and leave the room," she wrote.
"I later sat in my hotel room alone and wept.
I wept because I had gone up the elevator when I knew better.
I wept because I had let him touch my shoulders.
I wept because at other times in my life, under other circumstances, I had not been able to leave."
Heather Kerr Kerr claimed that in 1989, she was an aspiring actress and met Weinstein through the entertainment business manager for whom she was working at the time.
She said Weinstein offered to meet with her to discuss her career, but when she arrived at his office, he allegedly unzipped his pants and forced her to touch his genitals.
"He spelled it out for me: He told me that first I would have sex with him and then he would take me to parties and show me who I had to sleep with after that but that first he needed to know how 'good' I was," she said.
"He told me that I was not that good-looking but that he would be willing to help me anyway like he was doing me a favor."
Kerr said she left his office, and soon thereafter, resigned from her job and quit acting.
"I felt so powerless," she said.
"I didn't think anyone would believe me.
I was nobody.
Why would they?"
Lupita Nyong'o Nyong'o described in a personal essay in The New York Times an uncomfortable encounter with Weinstein that she says took place in 2011.
Fred Lee/ABC The actress, 28 at the time, says she was invited to the producer's Connecticut home, where he asked to give her a massage in his bedroom.
Nyong'o says she declined, instead offering to give him a massage and remain in control.
But when she did that, she says, Weinstein began to take off his pants, and she objected and quickly left.
Nyong'o says that at a later dinner with Weinstein, he asked her up to his hotel room alone and told her that if she wanted to be an actor she "had to be willing to do this sort of thing."
Weinstein, through a spokesperson, has denied the claims by Nyong'o.
"Mr. Weinstein has a different recollection of the events, but believes Lupita is a brilliant actress and a major force for the industry," the spokesperson said.
Lena Headey The "Game of Thrones" star appeared in "The Brothers Grimm," a Miramax film, opposite Matt Damon in 2005.
(Miramax was found by Harvey Weinstein and his brother.)
"At one point, Harvey asked me to take a walk down to the water," she wrote on Twitter Tuesday.
"He stopped and made some suggestive comment, a gesture.
I just laughed it off.
I was genuinely shocked.
I remember thinking it's got to be a joke."
Headey said she replied to Weinstein, "Oh, come on mate?!
It'd be like kissing my dad!"
"I was never in any other Miramax film," she added.
Eva Green The "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children" star told Variety over the weekend in a statement, "I met [Weinstein] for a business meeting in Paris where he behaved inappropriately and I had to push him off.
I got away without it going further, but the experience left me shocked and disgusted."
Rosdiana Ciaravolo/WireImage/Getty Images Green said that she kept silent until now because she wanted to "maintain my privacy."
"But I understand it is important to do so as I hear about other womens experiences.
Women are often condemned when they speak out and their personal reputations tarnished by association," she added.
"We should recognize that this sort of behavior exists everywhere and is not unique to the entertainment industry.
The exploitation of power is ubiquitous.
This behavior is unacceptable and needs to be eliminated.
Paula Wachowiak The 62-year-old told ABC News affiliate WKBW in Buffalo that she was a production assistant on one of Weinstein's earliest films when she was allegedly harassed.
She said she worked mostly with an accountant on the film and took checks to get cashed at the local bank.
One day she said she was asked to take some checks to Weinstein's room to be signed.
She entered his room and realized he was holding a hand towel around his waist, she alleged.
At one point, Weinstein removed his towel and sat down completely naked, she claimed.
After reviewing the checks, she claimed he asked for a massage.
She said she declined his overture.
He signed the checks, she said, and she was then able to leave, she claimed.
She said she later ran into Weinstein at the end of the shoot.
According to Wachowiak, he asked her, "Was seeing me naked the highlight of your internship?"
She said she responded, "No, Harvey, actually you disgust me."
Lysette Anthony The British actress and star of "Hollyoaks" told the Sunday Times that she was only 19 years old when she met Weinstein in 1982.
The actress said she and the producer kept in touch over the next few years, including having lunch in London from time to time.
"We had become friends," she said.
But she told the Sunday Times that one night she met Weinstein for a drink and ended up back at his rented home where, she said, "The next thing I knew he was half-undressed, and he grabbed me."
She can't say exactly when this happened, saying she is bad at remembering dates.
She says she fled but tels the Times that then one evening when she was home with a friend her doorbell rang, and it was Weinstein.
"He pushed me inside and rammed me up against the coat rack."
She said she tried pushing him off but he was too heavy.
"Finally I just gave up."
Anthony alleges Weinstein then raped her.
She said that last week she went to the local police.
"I can't stand by and see all these brave women tell the truth and not stand up alongside them," she told the paper.
British actress Lysette Anthony has told the police she was raped by Harvey Weinstein in the late 1980s https://t.co/AQEMmL4X6q pic.twitter.com/cZRF6S8R9a The Sunday Times (@thesundaytimes) October 15, 2017 Rose McGowan The New York Times reported that in 1997, Weinstein paid a settlement of $100,000 to McGowan following an incident in a hotel room during the Sundance Film Festival.
McGowan has alluded to the alleged incident on social media.
"I told the head of your studio that HW raped me," McGowan wrote this week in a tweet directed at Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos.
"Over and Over I said it.
He said it hadn't been proven.
I said I was the proof."
Noam Galai/WireImage/Getty Images, File We are reviewing our options for the projects we have with The Weinstein Co, Amazon told The Hollywood Reporter this week.
A spokesperson for Amazon did not immediately respond to ABC News' request for comment.
1) @jeffbezos I told the head of your studio that HW raped me.
Over & over I said it.
He said it hadnt been proven.
I said I was the proof.
rose mcgowan (@rosemcgowan) October 12, 2017 Minka Kelly The actress claimed in an Instagram post that Weinstein once asked her to join him in his hotel room for a "general meeting," but after she claimed it made her uncomfortable, they met in a restaurant instead.
Kelly claimed that after a five-minute conversation about film, Weinstein promised to give her "a lavish life" if she agreed to be his girlfriend.
"All I knew was not to offend this very powerful man and to get out of the situation as quickly as possible.
I told him while flattered, I'd like to keep things professional," she wrote.
She alleges, "He said 'Fine.
I trust you won't tell anyone about this.'
I said 'Of course not.
Thank you so much for taking the time to meet with me,' - the only way I could think to shut it down gracefully and excuse myself."
I told him while flattered, I'd like to keep things professional - Minka Kelly Kelly added that she regretted her response and was speaking out in support of the other women who had come forward with their own stories about the film executive.
Sophie Dix The English actress told The Guardian newspaper that in the early 1990s she went to Weinstein's hotel room to watch footage of her new film.
He tried to pin her down and undress her, she alleged.
"He was really forceful," she said.
After running to the bathroom, she said she opened the door to find him masturbating and later ran out when room service arrived.
I decided if this was what being an actress is like, I dont want it, she said.
Florence Darel Darel, a French actress, told Le Parisien that despite her reservations, she agreed to meet Weinstein in his hotel room in the mid-1990s at the behest of her agent.
At the time, the film executive was still married to his first wife, Eve Chilton, so she was taken aback when he allegedly propositioned her.
"I told him I was very in love with my companion.
He replied that it did not bother him at all and offered to have me become his mistress a few days a year.
So we could work together," she claimed.
She alleges that the implication was "basically, if you want to continue in America, go through me."
Darel said she declined Weinstein's alleged advances.
Claire Forlani The actress claimed on Twitter Thursday that she "escaped" from Weinstein on five different occasions.
She claimed that at two meetings at the Peninsula Hotel nearly 20 years ago, she "ducked, dived and ultimately got out of there without getting slobbered over," and alleges that over the course of three dinners, he bragged to her about his famous conquests.
"I knew Harvey was a master manipulator," she wrote.
"I always thought I was a pro at handling these guys.
I'd had a fair amount of experience.
Sometimes I got angry.
Really angry.
I wondered why I had 'prey' stamped on my forehead."
Kate Beckinsale Patrick McMullan via Getty Image The actress took to Instagram Thursday, claiming that she "was called to meet Harvey Weinstein at the Savoy Hotel when I was 17."
Beckinsale, 44, said she assumed they'd meet in a conference room, but instead claimed she was told by the reception desk "to go to his room."
He opened the door in his bathrobe - Kate Beckinsale "He opened the door in his bathrobe.
I was incredibly naive and young and it did not cross my mind that this older, unattractive man would expect me to have any sexual interest in him.
After declining alcohol and announcing that I had school in the morning I left, uneasy but unscathed," she claimed.
Heather Graham Vivien Killilea/Getty Images The "Boogie Nights" actress wrote in Variety that Weinstein had allegedly implied that she had to sleep with him to be in one of his films.
"There was no explicit mention that to star in one of those films I had to sleep with him, but the subtext was there," she claimed.
"A few weeks later, I was asked to do a follow-up meeting at his hotel," she alleged.
"I called one of my actress friends to explain my discomfort with the situation, and she offered to come with me.
En route, she called me to say she couldnt make it.
Not wanting to be at the hotel alone with him, I made up an excuse -- I had an early morning and would have to postpone.
Harvey told me that my actress friend was already at his hotel and that both of them would be very disappointed if I didnt show.
I knew he was lying, so I politely and apologetically reiterated that I could no longer come by."
Graham, 47, said she was "never hired for one of his films, and I didn't speak up about my experience."
Cara Delevingne The actress said on social media Wednesday that she's had two allegedly inappropriate incidents with Weinstein.
Delevingne, who has said that she is bisexual, alleged Weinstein once called to advise her against ever going public with a same-sex relationship for the good of her career.
She also alleged that a year or so after that "odd and uncomfortable call," Weinstein brought her to a hotel room after a business meeting for an upcoming film, where she claims he asked her to kiss another woman before making a sexual advance himself.
She rebuffed him and left.
She shared that she later landed the role in the movie, but always questioned why.
Delevingne and Weinstein worked together on the 2017 film "Tulip Fever."
"Since then I felt awful that I did the movie.
I felt like I didn't deserve the part," she wrote.
"I was so hesitant about speaking out....I didn't want to hurt his family.
I felt guilty as if I did something wrong.
I was also terrified that this sort of thing had happened to so many women I know but no one had said anything because of fear."
La Seydoux The French actress wrote in The Guardian that she saw Weinstein allegedly acting inappropriate several times throughout her career.
Seydoux also detailed one alleged incident when Weinstein invited her to "his hotel room for a drink."
A female assistant then left the two of them alone.
"That's the moment where he started losing control," she alleged.
That's the moment where he started losing control - Lea Seydoux "We were talking on the sofa when he suddenly jumped on me and tried to kiss me," she claimed.
"I had to defend myself.
Hes big and fat, so I had to be forceful to resist him.
I left his room, thoroughly disgusted.
I wasnt afraid of him, though.
Because I knew what kind of man he was all along."
Ashley Judd Judd told The Times that about 20 years ago, she was invited to a Beverly Hills hotel, where Weinstein asked for a massage or to have the young actress watch him shower.
Gabriel Olsen/FilmMagic/Getty Images I said no, a lot of ways, a lot of times, and he always came back at me with some new ask," she said in the Times story from last week.
She rebuffed him but later appeared in two of his films without incident, she told the Times.
Mira Sorvino The Oscar winner found herself in a hotel room in 1995 with Weinstein, she told The New Yorker.
Billy Farrell/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images He started massaging my shoulders, which made me very uncomfortable, and then tried to get more physical, sort of chasing me around, she said, adding that she then left the room.
She believes that her rebuttal hurt her career, though she maintained a relationship with Weinstein's brother, who she says she never told about the incident.
Lucia Evans Evans told The New Yorker the assault began in 2004.
She was aspiring actress and said Weinstein "forced me to perform oral sex on him.
I said, over and over, I dont want to do this, stop, dont, she said.
Hes a big guy.
He overpowered me.
Asia Argento The Italian actress was invited under the guise of a party" in 1997, but only found Weinstein in his hotel room, she told The New Yorker.
He asked for a massage then forced oral sex on her, she said.
I was not willing, she said.
I said, No, no, no.
Argento maintained a relationship with Weinstein and had consensual sexual relations with him multiple times over the course of the next five years.
Ambra Battilana Gutierrez Gutierrez was a model in 2015 when she said she went to Weinstein's office for a business meeting, she told The New Yorker.
She claims he groped her and tried to reach his hand up her skirt.
She reported the alleged assault to the New York Police Department.
Paul Bruinooge/Patrick McMullan/Getty Images The next day, she met with Weinstein again wearing a wire in the hope of recording a confession.
In the recording, the model asks Weinstein why he had grabbed her breasts the day before.
He replies, "Oh, please, Im sorry, just come on in.
Im used to that.
Come on.
Please," according to audio released by the New Yorker.
As the recording continues, Weinstein tries to convince her to come into his hotel room while he showers despite her protests.
After a nearly two-minute encounter, he agrees to let Gutierrez leave.
The Manhattan District Attorneys Office decided not to file charges after a two-week investigation and Weinstein was never prosecuted.
They later reached a confidential settlement that included an affidavit that behavior he confessed to did not happen.
Rosanna Arquette Arquette said she met Weinstein in his hotel room in the early 1990s.
She claims Weinstein tried to force her to give him a massage, then tried to force her hand on his genitals.
Although she did have roles in subsequent films, she claims her refusal hurt her career from that moment on, she told The New Yorker.
Arquette also spoke to The New York Times.
Emily Nestor She was a front desk assistant for Weinstein, and she told The New Yorker that when she first began working for the producer in 2014, he asked her to coffee.
There, she alleges Weinstein told her, I could put you in my London office, and you could work there and you could be my girlfriend.
She told The New Yorker that it's a "clear case of sexual harassment."
She told The New Yorker that she did have a conversation with company officials but did not pursue it because she was told Weinstein would be informed of everything she said.
Emma de Caunes The French actress told The New Yorker that in 2010, she went to his hotel room under the impression that they would discuss a potential movie role.
He took shower and came out naked.
She claims Weinstein demanded that she get on the bed.
She declined and left.
Jessica Barth Barth, an actress, told The New Yorker that she met Weinstein at the Golden Globes in 2011 and she was also invited to his hotel room, where he dangled a film role over her in exchange for a "naked massage."
She refused and left.
Gwyneth Paltrow JB Lacroix/WireImage/Getty Images The actress credits Weinstein with giving her her star-making role in the film "Emma," and according to her interview with the New York Times, before filming began, Weinstein invited her to join him for massages in his hotel room, which she declined.
Paltrow said their relationship was rocky for some time afterward, as Weinstein was apparently angry that she'd confided in her boyfriend at the time, Brad Pitt.
Paltrow went on to win an Oscar for another Weinstein-produced film, "Shakespeare in Love."
Angelina Jolie Jolie said in an email to the Times that she rejected unwanted advances from Harvey Weinstein in the '90s and from that point forward, made a point to warn other women against working with him.
Dia Dipasupil/Getty Images Tomi-Ann Roberts The aspiring actress told the Times that she met Weinstein in 1984 and hoped he could help her career.
She said she arrived to a meeting to find him nude in a bathtub and claimed he suggested "getting naked in front of him" to help with her audition.
She declined.
Katherine Kendall Kendall claimed in an interview with the Times that after she refused to give Weinstein a massage in the early '90s, he asked her to show him her breasts.
She said no.
Judith Godreche The French actress told the Times that at the 1996 Cannes Film Festival, Weinstein asked her to give him a massage and after she said no, she found the producer "pressing against me and pulling off my sweater."
She managed to leave the room.
A female Miramax executive told her to keep quiet, she alleged.
Dawn Dunning Dunning, a former actress, told the Times that Weinstein allegedly offered her contracts for his next three films if she would have three-way sex with him.
When she declined, she claims he allegedly told her, "You'll never make it in this business."
Louisette Geiss During a Tuesday press conference with her attorney, Allred, Geiss, a former actress and screenwriter, accused Weinstein of offering to greenlight her script if she'd watch him masturbate.
She left the room, and soon thereafter, the industry.
Laura Madden The former Weinstein Co. employee told the Times that Weinstein repeatedly asked for massages.
It was so manipulative - Laura Madden It was so manipulative," she claimed.
"You constantly question yourself -- am I the one who is the problem?
Zelda Perkins The Times reported the former London assistant to Weinstein while he was at Miramax confronted her boss about his alleged treatment of her and others back in 1998, threatening to initiate legal action or go public with her story if he didn't change his behavior.
Perkins settled with a company lawyer and declined to comment, according to the Times.
Romola Garai The British actress told The Guardian that when she was 18 years old, she allegedly had to meet Weinstein in his hotel room.
It was an abuse of power - Romola Garai "So I had to go to his hotel room in the Savoy, and he answered the door in his bathrobe," she claimed.
"I was only 18.
I felt violated by it, it has stayed very clearly in my memory."
Garai claimed she spoke to Weinstein while he sat there in a bathrobe.
The point was that he could get a young woman to do that, that I didnt have a choice, that it was humiliating for me and that he had the power.
It was an abuse of power, she said.
Sarah Ann Masse The comedian claimed she had an encounter with Weinstein back in 2008 when she was interviewing to be the nanny for his three children with Eve Chilton.
After several interviews with female assistants, Masse claimed that Weinstein asked to meet with her.
He was still in his underwear - Sarah Ann Masse When she arrived to his Connecticut home, he was in his "boxer shorts and an undershirt," she told Variety.
At the end of the interview, she claimed Weinstein gave me this really tight, close hug that lasted for quite a long period of time.
He was still in his underwear.
Then he told me he loved me.
I left right after that.
Liza Campbell The writer wrote in The Times of London that in 1995 she had an inappropriate encounter with Weinstein in his hotel room.
Although others were there when she arrived, they suddenly "vanished," she claimed.
I could hear him moving around and suddenly the sound of bath taps running," Campbell, whose father was the 6th Earl of Cawdor, claimed.
"What do you say we both jump in the bath?
he hollered.
I could hear the thump of shoes being taken off and felt shocked that the meeting had turned sleazy.
She said she found an exit and left.
Zo Brock He re-emerged naked a couple of minutes later and asked if I would give him a massage - Zoe Brock The New Zealand writer and model wrote in a blog on Medium that she allegedly had an inappropriate encounter with Weinstein when she was 23 years old in his suite at the Hotel du Cap-Eden-Roc.
Harvey left the room, but not for long, she wrote.
He re-emerged naked a couple of minutes later and asked if I would give him a massage.
Panicking, in shock, I remember weighing up the options and wondering how much I needed to placate him to keep myself safe.
He asked if I would like a massage instead, and for a second I thought this might be a way to give him an inch without him taking a mile.
She said she confronted him and emerged physically unharmed by the experience but it was nonetheless shocking.
Lauren Sivan In 2007, Sivan was a news anchor on Long Island 12, a local cable channel in New York, when she said she met Weinstein at a New York City restaurant.
We talked about news, we talked about politics, we talked about our love of history, she told ABC News' 20/20.
He was really flattering which at the time made me feel great.
Sivan said they left the restaurant and went to a club, where Weinstein said he was an owner, and she accepted when he offered to give her a tour of the downstairs kitchen area.
But when she got there, she realized the area was empty and said she became uncomfortable.
Hes blocking the exit with his body, she claimed.
He leaned in to kiss me at that point, and I recoiled.
I realized, Oh, this is a bad situation.
I apologized to him.
I said, Im so sorry if I gave you the wrong idea.
Im in a relationship.
He said, 'Just stand there and be quiet,' Sivan alleged.
A day or two later, Sivan said Weinstein called her and asked to meet up with her again.
She said she told him she wasnt interested and after that, she said she never heard from him again.
Sivan said she has shared her story with friends but never spoke about it publicly until now and never reported it.
Juls Bindi In an interview with 20/20, Bindi alleges that Weinstein attacked her in 2010.
At the time, she was a 29-year-old massage therapist working in Hollywood and said she met the film executive at a movie screening she attended with a friend.
Bindi, who said she already had other high-profile Hollywood clientele, said Weinstein arranged for a massage appointment with her at the Montage Hotel.
Then, he arranged for a second appointment.
That time, she said, he was wearing a bathrobe when she walked into the hotel room and disrobed in front of her.
Startled, Bindi said she stepped into the bathroom for a few moments.
When she came back out, Bindi said he was lying on the massage table and she started the massage, though he cut it short.
Bindi said Weinstein then got up and began asking her about his genitals.
She said she ran into the bathroom and he followed her and started masturbating in front of her.
Im like, Please, this is not appropriate, I do not feel comfortable.
No.
Do not do this in front of me.
This is not OK.
This is not professional behavior, she said.
He continued to do it, and I tried to get by him.
He grabbed me, started groping on my chest, and he kept going, and I pushed him away."
Bindi told 20/20 she was shocked by what happened.
She went to quickly pack up her massage stuff and then said Weinstein asked her if she wanted a book deal.
I said, Sure, Bindi said.
What am I going to do?
...
In just one second he could've destroyed my career, destroyed my reputation.
The book deal never went through, she said, and she has never spoken publicly about what she said happened until now.
He just faded away, she said.
He invited me to some of his movie premieres, which I took friends to.
I went because I wanted to meet people to get them as clients.
I'm ashamed, but, what do you do?
The only reason Im coming forward now, which I wasnt going to, Bindi continued.
[Is] because there were 10 girls already who came forward.
Paula Williams Williams said she was a working model and an aspiring actress who had been living in Los Angeles for about a year when she said she met Weinstein at an Oscar party in 1990.
She said Weinstein then invited her to a dinner party he said he was having with other people she should meet.
On the night of the party, Williams, then 20 years old, said Weinstein sent a car for her that took her to a house in Hollywood Hills.
I walk in, and its just Harvey, she told 20/20.
He immediately starts massaging my neck as I walk in so I know right away that this is going to be uncomfortable.
Williams said she excused herself to go out on a balcony to smoke a cigarette and compose herself.
When she went back inside, Williams said Weinstein had opened a bottle of champagne, and said, I dont think I had a sip and he exposed himself.
Williams said she quickly went to the door and walked out.
She said she zigzaged her way through neighbors backyards, trying to get away from the house, and never looked back.
She said she hasnt spoken publicly about her experience until now, and has lived in shame of what she said happened ever since.
The reason why I didn't like talking about it and the reason why I would never come public with it before is, it was a deep shame, Williams said.
[When] Gwyneth [Paltrow] said something in the press about it, and she had experiences as well.
And all of a sudden I just felt it lifted.
The season 2 premiere of Disney Channel's coming-of-age series "Andi Mack," starring Peyton Elizabeth Lee, will feature a first for the channel when Joshua Rush's character, Cyrus, discovers he has feelings for a male classmate, played by Asher Angel.
Interested in Disney?
Add Disney as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Disney news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Ultimately, Cyrus comes out as gay to one of his best friends, Buffy, played by Sofia Wylie.
Her response, according to Disney, "makes for positive role models for kids and adult viewers."
"'Andi Mack' is a story about tweens figuring out who they are," Disney Channel said in a statement on Tuesday.
"Everyone involved in the show takes great care in ensuring that it's appropriate for all audiences and sends a powerful message about inclusion and respect for humanity."
Though the network has depicted same-sex relationships in other shows, this is the first time Disney Channel has presented a storyline depicting a character's journey to self-acceptance as a gay person.
Disney said child development experts consulted on the episode, which was screened in advance for organizations such as Common Sense Media, GLAAD and PFLAG.
The season premiere of "Andi Mack" airs on Friday, Oct. 27, at 8 p.m. ET/PT.
Disney is the parent company of ABC News.
Harvey Weinstein has sued the Weinstein Co. for access to his records as he mounts a legal defense for himself in light of recent allegations made against him.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The producer, who has been accused by dozens of women of sexual misconduct, is demanding access to his emails and personnel file from his time at the studio he co-founded.
In paperwork obtained by ABC News, Weinstein's attorneys claimed that the documents are necessary not only because of the civil and criminal allegations made against him, but also for a possible wrongful termination lawsuit he may file against the company.
Weinstein also believes that by reviewing his files, he could help the Weinstein Co. defend itself against claims made against board members, the documents state.
Representatives for the Weinstein Co. did not respond to requests for comment.
A representative for Harvey Weinstein also had no comment.
This month, more than 40 women have accused Weinstein, 65, of sexual misconduct, which led to Weinstein Co. board members terminating the former studio head immediately.
Weinstein tendered his resignation from the board shortly thereafter.
However, there have been several legal ramifications from the scandal, as well.
Earlier this week, Dominique Huett, who claims that Weinstein forced oral sex on her in 2010, filed a $5 million lawsuit against the Weinstein Co., in which she claimed that board members were aware of the producer's history of alleged sexual misconduct and did nothing about it.
Bob Weinstein, Harvey Weinstein's younger brother, recently told The Hollywood Reporter that he and his fellow board members "did not know the extent" of the allegations.
Meanwhile, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman has announced that he has opened an inquiry into the Weinstein Co. to investigate claims of sexual misconduct and harassment made against Harvey Weinstein, and the Los Angeles Police Department confirmed that authorities were investigating a potential victim of a 2013 sexual assault involving the disgraced producer.
"Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein," Weinstein's representative told ABC News on Tuesday.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Disgraced film mogul Harvey Weinstein sued his former company on Thursday, seeking access to emails, his personnel file and other records he contends may exonerate him from multiple allegations of sexual harassment and assault.
Weinstein's lawsuit filed Thursday in Delaware seeks access to the records, which Weinstein's lawyers argue are key to the Oscar-winner's defense from the avalanche of harassment claims made against him since an Oct. 5 report by The New York Times.
Weinstein was fired from The Weinstein Co. three days later.
His lawsuit makes clear that if he is able to obtain the records, he may use them to pursue a wrongful termination case or other legal actions against the company.
The lawsuit notes the numerous legal troubles facing Weinstein and his former company, including criminal investigations, a civil lawsuit that alleges The Weinstein Co. knew of decades of harassment allegations lodged against the producer and a civil rights investigation launched by the New York attorney general.
"Mr. Weinstein believes that his email account which is the primary, if not only, account he used during the term of his employment by the company will contain information exonerating him, and therefore the company, from claims that may be asserted against him or the company.
Further, Mr. Weinstein is in a unique position to offer insight, and further explain and contextualize his emails."
Weinstein is asking a judge to expedite a ruling on his case.
A representative for The Weinstein Co. did not immediately respond to an email message seeking comment.
The lawsuit came hours after actress Ashley Judd described on-camera Weinstein's sexual advances toward her, which she said she escaped by making a deal.
She was a rising young actress two decades ago who had arrived at the hotel suite of this powerful film mogul for what she thought would be a business meeting.
It wasn't, she said in her first on-camera recounting of the incident, which aired Thursday on "Good Morning America."
Judd's account of the incident three weeks ago in The New York Times was a key factor in Weinstein's downfall, and opened the door to an avalanche of harassment allegations against Weinstein and others and a broader cultural discussion of how women are treated in the workplace and beyond.
Writer and director James Toback, an Oscar-nominee for his "Bugsy" screenplay, has been accused of sexual harassment and assault by more than 200 women since a Los Angeles Times article broke the stories of 38 women Sunday.
On Thursday, actresses Selma Blair and Rachel McAdams told Vanity Fair about encounters with Toback early in their careers.
Blair alleges that Toback humped her leg and implied that he would have her killed if she told anyone.
NBC suspended Mark Halperin on Thursday after CNN reported on the claims of five women who said the political journalist harassed them while he was an ABC News executive.
Halperin, who co-authored the best-seller "Game Change," apologized Wednesday for what he called inappropriate behavior.
And former Fox News host and best-selling author Bill O'Reilly, who was forced out of the network in April after sexual harassment allegations, saw his literary agency cut ties with him.
Fallout continues to Weinstein and the film production company he co-founded.
The Lexus luxury vehicle brand said Thursday it was ending its partnership with The Weinstein Co., which included sponsorship and product placement in company's "Project Runway" television show.
Weinstein has been fired from the company he co-founded with his brother and is now facing criminal investigations in London, New York and Los Angeles.
ABC is spreading its interview with Judd throughout its programming Thursday, with segments expected to air during its nightly newscast and its "Nightline" late-night show.
In the "GMA" interview, Judd said the business meeting in Weinstein's hotel room turned into a negotiation not about work, but about things the producer wanted the actress to do to him.
Weinstein first offered to give her a massage, then, when she demurred, asked her to give him one, she said.
"I fought with this volley of no's," she said.
Then she made a "deal."
She said she agreed to submit to him, but only "when I win an Oscar in one of your movies OK?"
"When you get NOMINATED," Weinstein counter-offered.
"And I said, 'No.
When I WIN an Oscar.'
And then I just fled."
Judd said she remains of two minds about how she handled the shocking situation.
"Am I proud of that?
.
The part that shames myself says, 'No.'
The part of me that understands the way shame works says, 'That was absolutely brilliant.
Good job, kid, you got out of there.
Well done!'"
Judd said a couple of years after the hotel encounter she was seated across from Weinstein at a dinner.
She said he brought up "that little agreement we made," and claimed he was "looking around for the material."
Then he looked at her and said, "You know, Ashley, I'm going to let you out of that little agreement that we made."
Judd said by then "I had come into my own, I had come into my power, I had found my voice.
And I said, 'You do that, Harvey.
You DO that.'
"And he has spat my name at me ever since."
AP Entertainment Writer Anthony McCartney and AP Film Writer Lindsey Bahr in Los Angeles and AP Television Writer David Bauder in New York contributed to this report.
As the Harvey Weinstein scandal rapidly unfolded, with dozens of women coming forward to accuse the movie mogul of sexual harassment and, in some cases, assault over a 30-year period, it shed light on a common if not always understood legal provision -- the nondisclosure agreement.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Commonly referred to as confidentiality agreements, these provisions used in settlements or contracts are essentially a vow of secrecy.
With the Weinstein scandal, they have not only come into focus but under fire.
Earlier this week, one of Weinstein's former assistants in Miramax's London office publicly denounced the use of NDAs, and, in doing so, broke her own.
Zelda Perkins told the Financial Times that she wants to shine a light on these types of agreements in which "the inequality of power is so stark and relies on money rather than morality."
She said, "I want other women who have been sidelined and who aren't being allowed to own their own history or their trauma to be able to discuss what they have suffered.
I want them to see that the sky won't fall in."
Days before she spoke out, members of the Weinstein Co. staff released a statement to The New Yorker asking the Weinstein Co. to let them out of their NDAs "so we may speak openly, and get to the origins of what happened here, and how."
"We knew that our boss could be manipulative.
We did not know that he used his power to systematically assault and silence women," the statement, signed by "select members of the Weinstein Co. staff," said.
"We had an idea that he was a womanizer who had extramarital affairs.
We did not know he was a violent aggressor and alleged rapist."
In response to the allegations, a spokesperson for the movie executive said, "Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr.
Weinstein."
"Mr. Weinstein has further confirmed that there were never any acts of retaliation against any women for refusing his advances.
Mr. Weinstein obviously can't speak to anonymous allegations, but with respect to any women who have made allegations on the record, Mr. Weinstein believes that all of these relationships were consensual," the spokesperson said in a statement.
"Mr. Weinstein has begun counseling, has listened to the community and is pursuing a better path.
Mr. Weinstein is hoping that if he makes enough progress, he will be given a second chance.
Days after reports surfaced, Weinstein was fired from the Weinstein Co., and he later resigned from its board of directors.
He was also expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Now there is new scrutiny on the NDA or confidentiality agreement.
To learn more about what they are and to better understand how they might contribute to a culture of secrecy around sexual harassment, ABC News spoke to Jonathan Handel, a Los Angeles entertainment and technology attorney who is also a contributor to The Hollywood Reporter, and New York attorney Kathleen Peratis, who heads up her firm's sex discrimination and sexual harassment practice group.
1.
What are nondisclosure agreements?
"They are a standalone agreement or provision in another contract that restricts someone from talking about things," Handel said.
"They arise in two contexts -- one as part of documents an employee signs for employment with a company, another as a settlement agreement."
"In settling claims regarding employments, they are not only common, you never see a settlement of a claim that does not include a confidentiality agreement," Peratis said.
NDAs typically restrict the person from disclosing the agreement or saying anything disparaging about their employer, she added.
"You cant say disparaging things about an employer, even if it's true," she said.
"The employer gives you money and you give the employer a release and a promise of silence," Peratis said.
"Thats the basic structure."
2.
Are all NDAs bad?
"There are aspects that are highly legitimate," Handel said, such as in situations involving trade secrets, where they are "understandable and generally noncontroversial."
"In the context of sexual harassment, the results have been less salutary and more harmful to what they do to society," he said.
That's especially true, Handel said, in the case of serial offenders.
"[NDAs] enable someone who very much appears to have been a serial predator, harasser and abuser, not someone in one instance who stepped over the line," he said.
3.
How can NDAs contribute to a culture of silence around an issue like sexual harassment?
"This culture of secrecy and lack of transparency has arisen in the employment context because no one likes being accused of discrimination," Peratis said.
"[NDAs] do perpetuate the very wrong that they arose out of.
Theres no question -- having things be in the shadows perpetuates those things."
"[NDAs] contribute to a culture of silence because they are a legal agreement that the victim will remain silent," Handel said.
"Silence is the pillar."
4.
Can an NDA protect criminal wrongdoing?
"The law makes a distinction -- perhaps not the correct one -- between going to authorities on one hand and going to the press on the other.
You can go to the police," Handel said, in cases where a crime has been committed.
"And you should have a lawyer advising you to make sure you dont do anything that steps over the line into potential liability in the NDA."
Criminal prosecution is not blocked by NDAs but there are other things to consider, Handel and Peratis said, like the statute of limitations, if the incident occurred many years before and a prosecutor's willingness to pursue the case.
Employees can also report allegations of harassment to the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and corporate whistleblowers can contact the Securities and Exchange Commission.
5.
What happens if a person with an NDA goes to the press?
"It depends on what the agreement says," Peratis said.
"If you breach it, the employer can claim all the money back.
A lot of clients have called me and said, 'What can I do?'
I tell them if you made a deal and you break that deal, youre vulnerable.
The defendant might well come after you."
Peratissaid it might start with a cease-and-desist letter followed by legal action.
In the Weinstein case, Handel said, "This is where we get into the distinction between what could happen versus whats likely."
He added, "My guess is that he is not going after them."
6.
Should victims of sexual harassment sign NDAs and help perpetuate the culture of silence?
"What lies underneath is a hard moral question: What responsibility does a victim have to potential future victims, assuming it's not a one-off or one-time mistake?"
Handel said.
"What the victim owes not just herself but future victims is a very hard question.
In effect, you're asking me to tell someone who has been in this awful situation what to do.
I cant."
"I'd love to be able to advise my clients [what to do]," Peratis said.
"But it's not my decision."
7.
So how do we prevent serial offenders from using NDAs to victimize others?
"The only way to stop this is through some official body -- the legislature," Peratis said.
"One by one, lawyers like us cannot do it."
Handel said in California, where legislation is already being considered to bar such agreements from sexual harassment cases in much the same way as they are in felony sexual assault and child sex abuse cases, he'd like to see some legal method that addresses the concerns of all parties, including the alleged offender.
As for a serial offender, he said there should be some sort of trigger that nullifies previous agreements if there is a second offense.
"Its increasingly uncomfortable that a legal measure plays a part in sustaining a culture of silence around sexual harassment," he said.
Transcript for Singer Wrabel on the inspiration behind his music Can an afternoon the pilgrim we aerial I don't from the couch today.
We're joined by special guests Steven rabble.
There's X not a caption here is an account.
I think man I mean they're making her look at the situation in the events yeah Burnett have like a couch conversation.
And have a fat.
Now the government the European.
Now as a first where you.
I was one of my island.
I moved I think before I was even there a year reality and moved up like fifteen times as something.
I grew up in Houston and knowing California and that event LA fair.
Ten years.
Your source.
And how do you end up and that world like I have no idea.
Anyone knows how to and up and world evidence.
I don't know I went to Berkeley county music for a semester which is like a fancy dancing is at school it is fancied and Smith.
Those things and a different semester.
And I was kind of like Tanaka at school.
Classes now something that I.
Really into it I think out of nine and my rather than down now ice and moved out with him and Mike lived on his bedroom floor for a couple of years and I don't know I wrote with whoever it right with me and I've played shows like the weirdest places like no one.
And kind of threw test constant.
Minute and you want to lascivious.
The idea wanted to be an artist Stan and the I'd been writing songs since I was in my high school like ants.
Really that's on.
Which stuff happen all the time.
This I think it is how about him I had it was like anything I can do that's.
Remotely that I'll do it whenever.
What is that process like and Annie I can imagine this man does wakes up one day.
And they're like instantly curry and writing songs speculate that's something you become batter out over time you.
They think I hope.
I do I feel definitely more confident now than it did ten years ago.
But for me it's still.
Sometimes I think and maybe trust that like.
Weird mystical magical amuse little to match.
Because for me on.
Like if it's there it's there if not then I'm like hey guys let's go eat a cheeseburger has not happening today it's very like.
There mess just says it strikes yeah where he get your ideas.
My eighth.
A lot of I mean like I've via Iran my life based completely on emotion.
Which is really wonderful have a greater things.
Com so.
In irate true stories rate.
I've been through two men and like written myself out of relationships bombs in them before and I color not hit hints yeah I think he's out.
I remember playing it through a home boy and a mine and how do you respond.
Is it pretty song as they did it is the course is a cumulative nugget back and play.
And it halfway there it's my electrician me this week.
What am I doing this he doesn't break now I don't there's as the years ago I don't know I'm I mean.
He and a break enemies and how can now.
Mean he was feeling the stock yeah thank.
That's funny so is it can part of it you're so that there are battling that's it that's a very vulnerable thing to do it right all the things that you feel.
Before you even even popular mayfield he had.
It's.
I remember like last year there.
We put out my first single was caught eleven box and it does about actually that same guy who.
Broke my heart moved eleven blocks away from me literally and it a look at for the artwork Andrea actual map it's on my arm.
His apartment and I remember the night it came out as a new York and that and it hit midnight and it went up on iTunes and the Spotify and all the places and I called him and his like.
Any and sweating.
As.
Polls now but I'm nerve says and I feel sick just to have something.
It's a weird writing a song about a real person who like.
In that case I wanted to call and MB and I.
Pays and you know I don't what's what he'd do mean like how are you with these you get that job you want you know whatever the questions are.
But I didn't and instead I wrote the song and lecturer a map to his apartment at night.
Put it on the Internet whole world to see yes say gates can feel a little.
Like AT like just kind of like.
Like naked in public at Willamette.
Very much negative public all the things yeah all of the pains.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Singer Wrabel on the message behind his song "The Village" Music writing your music.
One of the songs on this album that you just recently put out.
Have some sort of political undertones.
To talk to us about why you decided to do that then you I'm sunk.
I wrote this on its of the village.
And it was inspired by these two kids I'm Matt I went in my first store last year.
And a I'm epidemic outside backstage door and was kind of distract period to transcripts and I was just struck by how.
They were very simply themselves and they were so like.
Comfortable and confident in my supportive of each out there and I met families and cement friends.
And it just released stop mean I was like me I did not have that when I was there aids from and I'm still like so uncomfortable.
Ahead.
And so.
That day after federal protections for trans students have taken public schools I was talking and one of them and kind of hearing like.
Outside the headlines just like what it was actually like in school that Soviet Hansgen public school and awful and ultimately it's the who to my best friends and Afghanistan I don't.
I'm always writing songs this labor and heartening that matter and museums.
And like a one and trying to.
Write a song from and if they're the only two people here in the world and grade that was really the point and a and and so we did it name and eroded for the Hammond.
And it's definitely duty to put this.
Really.
So.
What's the response to it spin.
My eight.
I have spent.
Literal hours crying over their response it's been so amazing its spin.
Who like almost every show you on this storm on now I've had someone come up to me.
After the show in here think you sound thing Kiefer media thank you for years saying in here like this story.
And people on line like on every where you can send the message and getting.
It can't read them.
And like meg Graham on ire like sending screen shots of people's comments back and four at this has been crazy to see.
People.
Unity put us on and I want to thank cool song like butter and jam.
Whatever you yeah and it's none of that it's it's like people.
Saying I am from this town in this day man.
My dad's passed there and this is my story and you know this staring up articles likes.
Their whole lives via and there like if you ever in part.
Wide open when it comes that song N. I try to cut as much as I myself and it but it's been like that the the most rewarding and kind him my favorite thing.
Ever and that and a.
Well we all just want to be comfortable except you deal.
All the normal things granted it snarled and I don't normal bill that.
Oh yeah and it's but he's talented.
I certainly don't but.
These people.
Writings he's day that song makes me feel something yeah.
It's.
What I tell my preamble to sort of pull from it take conveyed that feeling to you paint.
I mean I grew up insurers like evangelical church regret day.
I think cannot.
23 Mimi.
And a lot of that was 'cause I didn't think it was semi couldn't reconcile.
By accident.
At these two things.
Easier to old.
I was.
That they'd all like these things don't like.
It's no good and I came out into this church in LA that.
Whereas when I met this guy we've got together and start dating and then where pastors and it was really.
Hard.
To.
As a phallic you know people are gonna accept your not accept you but then when you add on to it like now retirement god.
Room.
Accepting you are not accepting you know it was like oh.
Well.
I think yeah I was reading it was really having news in this dramatic and I think.
Kind of tried to pull from that and that song and and to relate to.
You know we all go through different things.
I'm in and out of vitality BT cute family.
That.
The feelings are usually similar.
The circumstance might be completely different but the feelings like I'm a loan program rejected him weird or.
I'm on one to Adam on lovable or whatever they are.
I feel like our law usually.
The same so what's your message for people with this.
That there's nothing wrong view that's what I'm screaming in the chorus yeah the it's it's there's nothing wrong with the you know it's.
I think we're in a time now when.
I'm not a fan of the us vs them mentality that it it feels like.
It's just there now and it feels like it's loud and clear bomb and I don't say that and I don't know how eyes I say that in a way of like there's just nothing wrong with the and just to Simon Says there is.
Doesn't of that truth capital T truths and Allen can tally is best known as a right to do.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ashley Judd reflects on how she handled alleged Weinstein encounter development in the Harvey Weinstein case.
Today, he sued his former company for records, as he now prepares to defend himself.
It comes as grin sawyer sits down with Ashley Judd.
Her first television interview.
Judd was the first to come forward about Weinstein.
More than 60 other women have now followed.
And this evening, Judd with her - message for Weinstein now.
It surprised us when we heard it.
And tonight, the messages to Diane, from women all over this country.
Reporter: She's a girl from Kentucky.
She has also written about the sexual abuse she endured in her young life, before she went to California, just wanting to be an actor.
Towering producer Harvey Weinstein called.
I remember the lurch when I went to the desk, and I said, Mr. Weinstein, is he in on the patio, and they said, he's in his room, and I was like, ugh, are you kidding me?
Reporter: But you went up because -- I had a business appointment.
Which is as -- that's, you know, his pattern of sexual predation.
That was how he rolled.
Reporter: We've heard a pattern in the allegations from other women, asking to give her a massage, asking for her to give him one, to watch him in the shower.
I fought with this volley of no's, which he ignored.
He kept coming back at me with all this other stuff, and finally, I just said, when I win an Oscar in one of your movies, okay?
And he was like, yeah, when you get nominated.
I said, no.
When I win an Oscar.
And then I just fled, and then I just fled.
Am I proud of that?
The -- I'm of two minds, the part that shames myself says no.
The part of me that understands the way shame works says that was absolutely brilliant.
Good job, kid.
You got out of there.
Well done.
We all do the best we can.
And our best is good enough.
And it's really okay to have responded however we responded.
Reporter: A message for women across the country, some of whom sent us audio tapes.
We promised not to reveal their names.
I have no face in this.
I have no name.
You know nothing about me, but I'm still scared, and I can't lose my job.
We're doing this for her.
You know, if this isn't her moment yet, we're helping create the moment when she can.
Reporter: And we had a question for this Hollywood star, who says her belief in god is central in her life.
What would you say to Harvey Weinstein today?
A surprising answer.
She says she'll never forgive what he did to women, but there's something else she must do because of her deep faith.
What I would say to Harvey is, I love you, and I understand that you are sick and suffering, and there is help for a guy like you, too, and it's entirely up to you to get that help.
That was an unexpected answer from Ashley.
In the meantime, what's really staggering is the number of women across this country who have reached out to you.
Reporter: Millions and millions and millions of women are speaking out.
And I think Ashley Judd, all the women who have spoken out so far are asking, can we make this moment matter somehow?
And so, I wanted to be here to say to all of them, sending us the tapes and sending us e-mails, we'll be here.
We are not stopping on the story.
All right, Diane sawyer with This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Hamilton star talks new Nintendo game 'Super Mario Odyssey' Hi everyone thanks for tuning into ABC news I'm Nicole a look this isn't your watch to guess what it's Mariana time.
Now Super Mario Odyssey was released to mark and their party people lined up outside of Nintendo and Nintendo store in New York where I am.
Just a purchase that game.
And it's not going to be having a special events are all super fans out there with a special guests that you might as well.
Is Jordan fish just brought you dancing with the stars and out there are Disney Channel fans are Hamilton and oh yeah absolutely everything ranks.
I don't even know where desire underline just an accomplishment and only 23 years old.
Congratulations.
And it cannot lose it in advance for everything that you will do they did you and everything that is allotted.
Now while millions of area are now he is the volume the very accomplished artist in many mormons.
He's here because of the supply.
Odyssey really.
Closer to Odyssey but.
Are you most excited part of my god what minimum bid of an advocate of the franchise for a long time friends it really.
The titles are really did for me the once and I really have a lot of memories Super Mario world and and then that's Mario Sunshine on the gamecube was what really kind of launched by my passion for the franchise that's the rate was the first kind of slightly sandbox style appealed for Mario game and it really revolutionize.
What we felt Mario could do.
Writes a kind of immediately by the combat sound weighted exchange evolved over time with video games this veto Odyssey isn't he great way to kind of celebrating.
The technology that we have now with and it's in this which.
I think it's the best console sits they gave Q I think one of the best council's ever created which is something I'm really stoked that.
To be able to celebrate to honor and that way obviously other ton of people that are here been lined up some of some people don't mind a fight in the days getting ready for the launch of this event.
Which is unbelievable and rightfully so because the game is under.
So there are but to the characters and the Mario franchise in general which what is your favorite eye a minute I've got to go at the agenda hook Mario guys consulate putting his life on the line and then.
It I'll always trying to rescue piece you can't seem to stay out of trouble but I he's got to he's got a new friend for this game and capping the written completely expands the entire way of thinking.
In terms of yeah.
Achieving accomplishments and be able to get from one place it together when it went feed.
Defeating enemies so on and so forth than it's a plethora of different ways to cap you can kind of help you.
Head and never the kind of helps accentuate Sam butts out of the game as well.
This version of the video game Super Mario ought to be it's been 3-D version.
Now we used to the Super Mario games whereas this besides growing tighter credit jump insulating things don't emotions and all that.
Song which of the study prefer do you really liked this new version.
Need you know let's as a purist of video games I I love what the essence this special Mario is concerned renovate it's definitely something that we know and just so you know that there are there are moments in this game as well where you can kind of revert back to that.
That that style look Mario that you that you know and love really well but if you look at thank.
Galaxy or sun shining at BCA even even 64 which the first one that we got to experience Mario and breeding environment.
There has been a steady throughout the city evolution that feels very intuitive for us gamers and the way the video gaming has grown and this is just with the switch with the it being so where are literally what was playing the game.
On a flight here last night afterwards with the stars' rehearsals the strategist called and said Ed play and be able to focus on one thing in.
Mars and severe episode reason to fuels could it's nostalgic.
It it it makes sense its familiar you know but there's something really special revenue about this game and I'm excited everybody play.
That's amazing number.
For lose you I want to ask the question because I wouldn't you would miss me to not mention yet.
Cynthia SR BS and ABC news is they could the parent company as Disney or ABC advancing of the stars now light at the end the different television group suddenly back.
I have to ask you filled it on this so how do you talkback known.
Learning Q I mean really the question was over the top of the best we can we we've we've got to a perfect.
Score on Dziena it was amazing especially considering we got the Pulitzer divine justice on the act to be for the more on the soundtrack which was.
Unbelievable very very chaismatic in the way that it all kind of came together.
And and that it definitely added an element of stress a little element of pressure.
On us to be able to perform at that level again that we let the week later and if yes and you Latin.
Professional ballroom dancers elicit from us the artist's style to do we got to run but it's the southern I was really.
Frightened about veterans.
It it definitely try to keep about this past week but I haven't needs more markets moving on and Shean made sure that it booked it about it we need to hitting 39 out of forty.
Sounds really their wedding graduation Ankiel is a great way to kind of follow up.
An incredible week them for doing it again.
And one more thing.
You haven't outlook.
But just not talked to respect crap I had signaled that and other gay assets called nests in the videos out now I should watch it.
To get a chance to be any of those things.
Yeah I mean it's it is Keith.
It is he Davies single off my debut album which we'll drop in 28 team members had her right here.
It doesn't it at that time yeah I'm Eric and I think that I think that we're that are much smarter than men and I think that women out of many argue with that I have right AA giving you guys ahead of push our buttons and the best ways and in the worst way is in this kind of an embellishment on that basis bomb on experiences.
It's it's it's a great sides by a significant sets the tone of the records hope you guys like.
And well and we do we love you thank you so much prayers speaking with us and I'll let you gotta get onto the festivity thing you're going to be hosting the piano.
I'm Nikki so much appreciated back.
Are so we have to move on because there are so many things to talk about what this event it's going on today.
And while I do love their Mario franchise I will first inning as one of my friends over here Alice.
Who could tell us all about it.
Please please please explain to all of our people are watching right now live on abcnews.com.
Exactly what's going to be going on tonight for the Super Mario Odyssey.
Game that was he said tonight was celebrating the launch of Samara Odyssey for Nintendo's wedge we've had fans lined up here for days.
Waiting to get their hands on of course we're going to be selling the game to them that the effect among the first in the country to get their hands on it.
But it's really a celebration of everything Mario and everything that's about this came so outside the store.
We have have a large dance troupe is going to be doing a performance.
The game as sort of a theme song that's got vocal scenes and Mario be dancing with the forty plus dancers and a very elaborately choreographed.
Routine I'm not a dancer myself so I I saw them rehearsing this yes and I thought wow this is really cool I could never do it.
And it doesn't ever been to the Nintendo store by the way but it's very well decorated.
And I went I want to kind of get a look at why you're explaining all this may be coming right hypocritical over here.
We don't want.
I mean you know Mario is one of the great.
Gaming icons.
All time when the great entertainment icons of the past thirty years so he's all over the place here.
We've got all the legend of Zelda.
Lets you other great Nintendo franchises.
Have past and present but here's an area where.
When a demo of Yasser attendees will be before they have a chance that by thinking contaminant planet.
For some of them this will be their first time ever playing the game.
That's very exciting and again justice beyond there is sort of that outdoor area will have the big celebration we have.
At a trailer.
Traveling cross country and that the theme of this game is is traveling going from different places to different place.
Country.
He started on the West Coast travel throughout.
Need four or five different stops and now he's in New York coming so many kingdom's Sunni kingdom yes kingdoms are sort of areas in the game that Mario travels to one of them is called new dunks city.
Nick Johnson City and remind you and New York City so there are some visual similarities as far as it being a big metropolis.
But this is where we're gonna cap off that seeks long journey for Mario.
And I look at speeding up half you yeah positioning right into the did not part of the island active.
Good character right here.
Because giant Belgian I got on a Red Hat and he spoke capping that's happy he tells about happiness of the new addition to the Super Mario Odyssey Democrats Cappy is brand new Super Mario Odyssey.
He takes over arias happens is of course very iconic and Mario confer it is easy air and it.
Back cavium lands on certain objects or enemies apart can actually take them over.
So previously in a Mario could throw fireballs or he could fly in this case you can actually become some of the enemy's been using and seeing for thirty years.
All sorts of things are so many different things that you can capture that's part of the fun is during the captaincy and I captured this when and what can I do when I finally do.
I had have you heard the front yard suddenly know everything about Nintendo the vendors and let this encyclopedic.
You know acknowledged that I've had for the thirty years.
Yes well thank you so much can we appreciate you Sarah all the odds of that and good luck tonight going to be amazing the art about people outside.
And I think it's sort of suddenly move on out there.
Fear.
So again Super Mario Odyssey releases tomorrow October 27.
But that's not stopped all people from lining up right now I see.
Food IC chair is not Black Friday that's coming up in just a couple of weeks that he's been put an app to your right back up for another round events.
And Cappy is going to be a new character.
Cabbie is an anthropomorphic.
Packs that Mario airs.
And as it was telling us they can capture people or capture enemies and then take on the minds of those enemies just to defeat them.
Right stepping outside here.
As you can see.
We have a whole lot of people like just a look at we need a secular.
All the people lined up right now going all that look at the Red Hat and its people are ready.
A long line.
What does one person in particular that I want you guys to see and speak with because he has the first person in line and he's been here for about.
Several days ten days right.
How car after it how you dizzy Bennett anyone important you you tell a story even.
All option.
I've been here since Tuesday morning so I spent.
Tuesday to let that I and the minds in the Thursday.
And now we're almost there.
And you listing ten days of that is valid but cannot apply attempted yes so basically while the stores open.
I've been making trial beholden on the spot and every day for ten days now I've done.
I've been out here.
Wow wow so your first time comes sticking out right mail not at all.
So anybody most excited fork of the have to be very sad Brazoban they're coming out for the Super Mario Odyssey game at this and that will obviously Odyssey and then secondly this crazy event that's gone on its.
Insane and then thirdly what I would say I'm most excited about is as came out with.
The rest of the community utilities to neighbors and saw people that does you know while what I love and on his glass glass.
You something back here and yeah.
Yeah.
I'd like reverend had.
It absolutely so you have heard there's a new character called title character a more compact I should say called Cappy yet.
What are you must sign a valid and come without new addition.
I guess be able to roam around everywhere and kind of get Mario into other characters and that just opened up the possibilities are.
A lot more exploration in this game solved.
That's yes it's going to be amazing talent I didn't playing video games are on the as long as I can remember honestly.
The federal remember watching my my mother and then my father and then I got my own them.
Bad dog from that possible thank you so much for speaking about half.
And you haven't a club hours to go but then you're Schumer and looks like you're also not here everyone seems to be also have been ready to go.
I dad are all a lot of antenna bands I hear and rob you Nintendo and Super Mario Odyssey October 27 can't understand and if you want to come out and be one of the first 200 people in line to be a part of the celebration happening.
Later tonight's.
Under Coppola and I'm gonna run dry and enjoy this solvers who must be.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Boo 2' star Tyler Perry on how Madea came to be and how she changed his life He's guy he and you wait I he Obama Wainwright don't in the I'm back I'm always writing and only IMAP I. I'm unaware.
Of how happy breath I got.
I'm not happy and make you can't open back.
Not.
Yeah you are.
About what got ahead of what happened there and there are how.
And why I have Ted Barrett eloped right moment.
Ma.
Yeah.
Hi everybody.
I'm Peter Travers and this is popcorn we we tell you what's happening at the movie.
And.
If you're a fan that Medea and Tyler Perry then you can have a treat because he has boom to.
A media how the way I'd be seen the first one the second one is got more surprises and it.
But big surprise for me and the thrill is to have Tyler Perry on the show for the first time so welcome thank you thank you haven't what's it is a longer bite me.
I did I think it was just didn't have.
OK I don't let it go into those reasons.
What happens but you truly do every.
Youth and you're writer director producer and actor.
I don't know what else do you built a studio.
In Atlanta that's twice the size of worn over.
It is ms. pretty is a pretty tired of the car via I think that when you came in the ever take a minute off.
I do you know I've got a really good team that allows me to.
To be able to be creative when I need to be them they also allow me to.
Focus on business when I need to and then to add to any twosome my team is really good idea to have a good team apparently do but you also now have a son via.
Yeah he's having.
Yeah if you part of even have a team that edited.
They haven't just comes in and says.
Any day at a time and everything else that stuff that's right I'm sorry he's not going to do the there are no more episodes of in his right with going home with them.
But will be cost boo to is in the it's part for me by just talking about where she comes from.
Medea is across the debate that it's a southern term ideas caused things worth mother and beer.
That a lot of governors used to describe the grandmother a mother or so Madea's is slang term but I saw Eddie Murphy do clubs two years ago.
And I settlements from and a female character on.
And I tried this character.
Medea Susan muscles BO things like five minutes.
And the lead actress didn't show up that night so I have to say her lines and my lines and the audiences of their forgiveness and and I only Alice Chicago they loved it.
And that's where it started in like 1999.
Well it was an act accident at yeah we.
The and she becomes somebody that's followed you through your whole career acting U Rivera broke.
I can't get rid of the just happen when you put the wig and address is that than she just come to see just absolutely comes I can I look at is as total.
Sabena character actor so you know whether whether it's you know a lawyer and gong girl or woman DO whatever yeah I just surrendered to the character just try to do my best.
You're not like walking around the house confusing your son know moment.
Never seen her I'm I'm afraid I'm maybe when he's about 2511.
Elevenths a year ago.
He's got to wait that long when I'm when trying to hire him as long as he goes to school with are gonna do.
That vein that I'd love about her is that I think no matter where we come from we all have one that's right but basically have one.
My grandmother would just basically say I'm gonna crap did you would be very sarcastic and that good and I'll be the cane that rabbit you know.
The threat analgesic that need to get a broad over here and play going to be the end of year to do it as a right.
But in describing her I can't come up with the many things that she is because she can be scary sometimes seen as a whole thing with weapons that is the little community are you remedy.
Okay both of them over my grandmother didn't she wasn't ever up on weapons charges yeah yeah.
You know abuse of reviews have everything our efforts art but that's because they didn't catch.
Bright vests that Obama is right with what did it.
I think I think that's what's so popular Peter a lot of people miss miss this grandmother when she's she's not around anymore but she wasn't politically correct decisions autumn and she would knock insider had been taken to the hospital briefly all of the thing.
The.
About via and you can keep people just warming to her when you watch it in the theater via you know.
Me as a movie critic when I go to a screening I'm sitting with other critics.
Who are dead you know we're get it but if nothing and if you go and see.
Boom to do with people.
Yeah they're just roaring with laughter all around you and your feeling.
Yeah that's what it's about those is that about.
Let's of the metro makes it was list of me this is about now no relative of our.
Met it's a silly movie bad I just wanted to have for people laugh.
Everything is so heavy this country and when the person came out everything was really I think it's gotten even worse now with just the weight of what's going on across.
That we you know this ridiculous things going on so I just want people to go out and take a 102 minutes you outing today in just.
Be light laugh at something to sell it and you're saying that you went on stage and it that was the accident and but.
Did she come from your life like I'm talking about my grand oh yeah this kind of thing on issues she is my mother him the combination of the two.
My who who lives still lives in Texas my mom passed 2000 but they won't they award the funniest woman do you would not want to meet them.
In a dark Alley in the movement rob them because you would end up giving Rocco care how bad you think you were they were bare amazing amazing.
What that they they actually talk like that I mean I love Madea's with the way she sometimes with.
Those T the R&R.
T.s and ours yes that covers the war praise the lord to get anything that comes from that comes from that serves in the black church.
On Sunday they do something called church announcements.
And the he retrieved though wondered if it feet.
All of these women making these announcements and no matter which stirred from went to Louisiana they all sound the same that Camara and seeing there they have messages for today's his palace the pastor what lack all you know to come.
And would when he beat senator accused of what women with David out of this happened so long without a month over at W vet yeah it's great yep but.
So you felt this and look I've read things about you brought up in new walk right yes so you had an abusive dad yes it wasn't really.
A favorite of view yes right to hang out with so mother and can't ward your life right there are two oh yeah my sister Celeste was a lot of times.
I go back and a look at some of the moves now the ones that I can't wants to some room for Julio beat Watson of learning that one alone.
But but.
Go back and I look and I realize that allowed the messages about.
Abuse and getting out of that situations I was actually.
Speaking to my mother of their bed and hasn't hasn't looked back on it but while those pretty pretty profound and even the limits.
Speaking to in the sense of saying from the influence on movies this was what I was feeling they'll all or I wish someone had said this to you to get out of this situation life so so a lot of times my audiences especially the base of my audience.
You know there were you can't get in the Range Rover go to therapy became you know do things like that so they don't have house in the country's nuclear.
We go to movies for the state and what happens is.
What I found is I got it that's the most I've got to amazing a lot of amazing I was one that was really great that are forgot was woman said.
You did in two hours what me and my.
Brooks justices have been trying to do for twelve years she's leaving an abusive relationship talking about the system.
What that's what this is about.
That's totally what it's about.
And it gives them something that they relating to the deficit because you relate to and a partial.
That's one thing if anybody is looking at the movies that you're doing or what happens in it and there are critical of them.
This sense that you always bring to this character in the movies you do is that he is never won the things I hate most about Hollywood.
Attempting to actually formula and then to synthesis.
Yeah yeah he senses.
Yeah or formula not.
An idea how kanga you know the but she doesn't come from that place right.
I'm just gonna make you laugh.
And I'm and Patrick somebody yeah because she's real T via what bright these are real people real situations grown up in New Orleans it was the best backdrop.
For every situation back and operate effective be on -- history from one into the tendency every kind of person represented every kind of music represented.
Every every kind of drama guard struggle or whatever will be for president on the one street.
May shouldn't say to yourself I want to create I want to actually do something I want to write about.
I wanna perform I didn't know that I could even doing or even at that I would would be prolific.
Just no no concept of any of that the I saw an Oprah Show which is that it was cathartic to write things down go to the dictionary to look up the work department in the would have meant.
And I sort of writing and I I was using them talking about things that I have been through.
But I would put different characters names on each page and a friend of mine found he said members of really good play you should really.
Do this play about play maybe that's what it is and that's that's that that was the C that's sort of also play you weren't growing up going the theater.
No and I would sneak into I was sneak into the saying a theater.
And when children come to town at an admission because all of the patrons who come out to smoke when they went back in I would go back in with them.
And fire is clever and by the seat somewhere but.
But some letters that the new well that's while would you moves seem like we only have one act or the bad actor in the second you can't.
Form a whole.
Oh hole art because you've only learned watching one act of black and via.
But now your title here.
And so.
You you're not that little boy growing up new ones that can't do anything you.
You now have this gigantic studio you produced what you have five or six different teams Shelton yeah.
Are you still part of these routes that you had when you were hit so I'm I don't think that I'll ever I've gotten a source of last elect.
On the and I've met enough characters in my life that valve.
I'll never run out the less you have writer's block has a right over TV Sosa and Mike Nolan never do it to sit down and the terror to start this week.
And you still do it don't you go in front of people and go on stage and play this character and other care would get.
What do you get from taking it to the streets and in the way it was after like it's running for president when I'm when you're out among the people.
If it it gives me a refresher on Mickey's room in the right place because.
I never know I always hope would shall work on screen but if archrivals states I know worked and it worked well because the response is immediate so.
Go and out is still the proving ground for everything it everything that I do and also to be.
To continue to stay in touch it to not you know get lost in all the other things that story I think that's the key to do.
Because if you get.
When you make something that's bars you know that's like this it's still has to stay real bright and some people have said including you know every British friends likely.
You know that these are a everybody expert he fifth he had some it probably would have made it anyway.
Everybody you have got a little it's a caricature America will brat what did he call it.
Corner real glory before Andrea that's yes there's that.
So a lot easier defense against back.
It's good for me it's very simple you know I look at spike him where he came from it and the the notes before the father thing was jazz musicians mothers and educator from income and I'm mistaken.
And he grew up in new York and it reminds me of this Zora Neale Hurston Langston Hughes Zora the person spoke from a very southern point of view and she had a lot of critics in length and use called her new version of the dark.
Because her stories were very suburb and the and the characters were very southern in the dialect that they spoken.
So this is this seems like the same thing repeating to me because like some was very parliaments on some new Yorker sophisticated.
So I think of that it's just took the class between.
The northern way.
But storytelling upbringing and thinking and my southern roots them that way of story telling them.
Sometimes I think he's just the leaders.
Yeah.
People would just come and say yeah well I can't right now brighten up all right.
I think going to crock my phrase about Africa.
And stole the idea that thing yet argued that thing that happened yeah.
And yet.
To me.
In somebody who create something from the heart gifts all.
There is no such thing here yeah you know because it's coming from why.
Would provide for every yep absolutely so divers resist the stereotypical thing though is a stereo types these are real people I think that every person.
Of caller not a color what ever every person has the right to tell their own stories their own way it's just like walking into museums and all kinds of art.
What you mean I like the abstract but you've certainly will go to.
Something else you know so it's about what you like and what you prefer and and I'm grateful that millions of people love what I do it and continues to.
How would you describe your audience.
Who wager on I tell you it's changed a great deal over the years but but we in the beginning and has my basic definitely tell you about race largely.
99%.
African American 99 through nine that is an African American about 80% women.
African American women who are just have been there completely for me and what I love about him that they're two audiences that I'd love.
So much as the country music but fans are always there for their artists always still debating.
And this audience has been right there with me and I've been very very fortunate that they've been so giving in so supportive of me of old fears that's my base.
But I'm I've watched it changed over over the years yet it could have used it yet in your movies don't open in just Pacific theaters right in this certain part of ten.
Right they're everywhere and where it.
Right so watching a change in seeing it younger group would join it more demographics overcoming.
You know crossing.
What what would have been recruit people would say cross over what I to select the lines of just wanna wait so everybody can realize it's not just a movie for black people was just.
A movie.
Just a movie.
About people about how they see because it com that specific needs to universal that's kind of truth and grooming.
For sure yet where so so when you you do this again signature character but certainly not the only actor and you've treated right now you have what five shows on Oprah's.
Own yes that's right.
That's right.
And what there's one other four.
He'll see.
Yes TLC that's what you want you all were the learning Miller's SNL writer jets as they try to percent of development.
Is this relationship between you and Oprah was the fact that you did you caller up and say listen I. I saw your show.
And and it made me want to write.
No strangest thing they propose them writing down the street this is probably nineteen.
Idea 22.
Maybe 2001 or two.
Camera memories are here where I'm from right administered to get a phone calls saying.
Or they want to on the Oprah Show they were doing the segment called remember your spirit and they heard about you've been doing these plays and once so like no way to say proposed so.
So they fly me to Chicago and sit with her do so.
And I always felt like I was gonna know heart which is the strangest thing some sitting across where she's interviewing me I'm a kid.
And we had a great conversation and that was it through four years later there are mad black woman comes out of walking them street in Vegas almost got hit by carcass my phone rings it's our.
Saying I just saw you movie congratulations I was.
Who is yet right right and then us he invited me to the legends ball and that's where references there.
And a friendship that becomes then a kind of partnership yet that what's happening.
That's right with its YouTube co produced precious together right yeah Calder went that's ought to Calder.
And said you know we should we should consider doing this together and as for me I didn't only bad news at the time but she did and it was who doesn't open.
Yet right for your program right so we.
Teamed up together to make sure that the move it was it's a success and that all of the actors were able to get the recognition they deserve Duchardt.
That's the thing about.
You and what you do it so Aaliyah and with that studio that few hours and that you're you're there with the show off and you're writing directing them.
How many episodes in a week.
We're probably.
The haves and have nots would probably do in six of seven episodes we.
Well yeah I.
You know nothing is speed I never thought and I couldn't I'd never thought it wasn't.
I didn't learn the way that everybody's in Hollywood remember going to see you taping of the Steve Harvey sitcom years ago.
And I was sitting there just blown away of saloon noise of that was taking this long to shoot there's so that lot of the news this this this in this in this in this and what once I got in power have even do it myself I realize I was they've been cut out a lot of of the things that slow down which is which or a lot of opinions and a lot of people a lot of notes and a lot of everybody's got an opinion vessels all the production so me on the only that what that's got a great idea that he gets it to spread via already sick.
The writer you are the directors talking to the actor here that we got a pro at it it's somehow it all together in Everett that's right to do that that's right.
Lot of the world's you have to conquer.
I don't know if there's anything else left to congress much as it is right now I've shifted from work as a hardened and just tried to get things up and running to.
After my son and turning forty now everything is about legacy and little early for him what do I what is that the mark believe.
On on the planet and and how.
Well how many people was I able to inspire cards so that's where.
This is a show that you never been on before but we always ended song oh and I mean we do but I know that gospel is there.
Yeah he really is so we always tell me and everybody OK yes everybody things we Daniels couldn't thing as though right though as yet three in Geneva.
Well that should be sent I think fit him yet we'll gospel definitely definitely.
My roots growing up.
My.
Grandfather was minister Maher was a minister my uncle was minister it's it's it's Emma.
So give us a little bit at.
I don't believe there and I leave everybody got at least where we're off you know yes.
Play games.
And the long.
Where a team to handle.
So you.
Wing.
Do well.
God school in the true bull the world.
The you don't fall.
Why is it where's the next musical.
Of a couple of current let alone.
Go on without league and that has nothing compared to Villa did you notice that amid a put he and a close talker Tyler.
Re going to meet you freeway and restrict thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Tyler Perry sings 'Wade in the Water' This is a show that you never been on before but we always ended song.
Oh and I mean we do but I know that gospel yeah.
Yeah do you really zone always tell me.
And every OK yes everybody thinks they Daniel's parents.
As though right there Otis yeah three in Geneva.
Well that should be sent I think that you know yet we'll gospel definitely definitely.
My roots growing up.
My.
Grandfather was a minister was a minister my uncle was minister it's it's it's him.
So give us a little bit at.
I don't believe there and I leave everybody got at least where we're off you know yes.
Playing even though.
Long.
Weighing team to handle.
It's you.
Wing.
Do well it.
God scoop on the true little the world.
The unit fall.
Why is it where's the next musical.
About.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ashley Judd: Girls, 'If it doesn't feel right, it's not' We've heard of going back to Anita Hill and a workplace that there's flirtation.
And women participate confrontation true.
And Howard guy supposed to know the lion and if you.
Dress like that it's ambiguous to me it's just ambiguous to me.
Get over yourself.
I mean I understand the world can be confusing for all of us and so I'm making that the little bit.
Of the joke about it but it's also very serious you know if I say no I mean no period.
No means no.
It doesn't mean maybe it doesn't mean yes doesn't mean try again in a different way it doesn't mean gonna kill joy it's in fine injure.
Your sexist or your racially over time joke funny and there's something so important.
Diane which is that.
We normalize being able to dialogue about these things that a hand in erupt and say I'm very uncomfortable with that.
And the male person with whom I'm in this conversation.
And not have their own massive debilitating chain attack or become outrageously defensive and say.
I didn't know that tell me more so tell me more is the answer to ambiguity is absolutely can be.
Yes because we have to read teach each other how to treat one another and that takes humility techniques in beginners mind it takes.
Being willing to have vulnerable conversations what should parents saying to their children about this.
Voice when in doubt don't girls doesn't feel right it's not.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Harry Connick Jr. and his wife, Jill Goodacre, reveal their family's 5 year battle with breast cancer Thanks so much.
Lara.
To that surprising revelation from Harry Connick Jr. And his beautiful wife Jill Goodacre.
The two opening up in "People" magazine about her private battle with breast cancer.
And how it took additional screening to diagnose it.
???
Why do stars fall down from the sky ???
Reporter: She's the picture perfect former Victoria secret model.
He's the New Orleans born crooner.
This morning, Jill Goodacre and Harry Connick Jr. Are opening up revealing a personal struggle she faced back in 2012.
I'll never forget it.
It's one of the hardest days of my .life.
Exactly five years ago this month I was diagnosed with breast cancer.
Reporter: The two telling more about their journey today on Connick jr.'s talk show "Harry" and in the pages of "People" magazine saying how it was undetectable in her routine mammogram.
The technician saw something that didn't look good.
She was diagnosed as having stage one invasive ductal carcinoma.
Reporter: She was saying what it was like to share the news with their three daughters.
Just watching their faces it was so horrible as I saw the fear dawning on them and the confusion.
It broke my heart.
Harry for Jill's sake had a very stoic demeanor.
He absolutely put on his best game face.
Privately, however, he said that he was just absolutely terrified.
Reporter: Goodacre now in remission for five years hoping to raise awareness saying, I'd never heard about dense breasts.
And if I'd only had a mammogram and walked away for the next year, things could have turned out so differently for me.
All I wanted to do was grow old with you and, you know, have as many years as possible as I could with you.
You always used to say that.
I just want to grow old with you.
It's true.
Reporter: Connick Jr. Married to Goodacre for 23 years posting on Instagram, if this info can help just one person, we're happy.
And we're happy for them.
Such a wonderful couple.
The new issue of "People" hits newsstands tomorrow and Dr. Ashton is back here and this brings up memories because I found a lump.
Right.
Went for a mammogram.
Perfect.
Ultrasound, thankfully my doctor had also asked for the ultrasound and the tumor was detected and there's just so many -- different screenings.
Right.
So let's go through quickly the screening for detection of breast cancer 101 talking basically about mammogram, sonogram and mri.
There is no perfect screening test so mammograms, we know they can miss cancers that can show up on sonogram, especially in women with dense breasts because tumors look whurt and dense breasts look white.
These tests are not one size fits all.
They're not all tests for every woman and they all have their pros and cons and that has to be discussed doctor to patient before that prescription is written before you go.
I'm very blessed and very, very fortunate.
Let's talk about certain treatments.
Tamoxifen.
People talk about it.
A lot of side effects.
Hormonal therapy for estrogen recepti receptive tumors but it can stimulate other parts of the body and it can come with a list of side effects.
We talk about the tamoxifen tummy or bloating, weight gain and can affect the uterus and need to know about these things.
We do.
Thank you so much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ashley Judd: 'I had found my voice, and I was coming right at him' We are back now with more of Diane sawyer's exclusive interview with Ashley Judd, the actress one of the first to come forward with accusations against Harvey Weinstein starting that firestorm and now others all across the country are sharing their stories and they faced -- what they face at the workplace and how you went about getting their story is something that people really need to hear, Diane.
Yes, you'll hear from some of them and Ashley Judd has traveled the world for the united nations but she's the first to point out there are so many people who need to have their voices heard right here at home.
For million and millions of women across this country, the chance to speak out on the #metoo but for so many the reality also of few options.
I keep thinking of someone in one of our towns in Kentucky.
Right.
Who cannot come forward, who cannot.
Well, then we're doing this for her, you know.
If this isn't her moment yet we're helping create the moment when she can.
Reporter: Some of you sent us audiotapes.
We promised not to reveal names as we play them for her.
I was told that if I didn't sleep with him, I would be fired.
We're slow tonight, baby.
Go in my office and take your clothes off.
So I'm sitting inside my car outside a job I've had for years now.
And this is the part which I have to psych myself up and say, it's going to be okay.
I know he's in there because he's always in there.
This guy controls my schedule.
I don't make any money, I don't feed my kids and I can't say anything because I need this job.
He's just going to push and push and push and push trying to find where my breaking point is and the terrifying part is that I don't know where that is.
So what do I do?
I just want to hug her.
I don't know how we fix this.
I'm -- even just -- I have no face in this.
I have no name.
You know nothing about me but I'm still scared that he's gonna find out or someone's going to find out that I've said something and then I lose my job and I can't lose my job.
Reporter: Women reminding her of a favorite song.
You know, I love the song "Invisible" by u2 which is really about making unseen people seen.
???
I am not invisible ???
I'm more than you know I'm more than you see I'm not invisible.
Reporter: She says it's the way she felt when she didn't feel powerful enough to speak out publicly even as actresses, we're talking privately about the same experience with Harvey.
Then in 1999 she says Weinstein said something to her across a table.
Remember that little agreement we made.
Think I have got that script for you.
Hey, just looking around for the material.
And then I saw him and Barbara Walters was right here and he was across from me at a table and I had just reached the up with which I could not put and come into my own, I had come into my power.
I had found my voice and I was coming right at him Diane and he looked at me and he said, you know, Ashley, I'm going to let you out of that little agreement we made and I said, you do that, Harvey.
You do that.
And he has spat my name at me ever since.
Caught a wide berth.
Reporter: She later made two movies at his studio.
She doesn't remember him being a big presence on the set and in the last three weeks Weinstein has given out statements to "The New York Times" and others saying he didn't retaliate against anyone and, again, any sex was consensual.
He might very well believe that.
He said the rules in the '60s and '70s were different and that he will try to be better.
Trying is lying.
Yes, he said a year from now I'm going to reach out to her.
Are you going to meet with him?
I have no idea.
I believe that there is hope and help for everyone.
It has to be the appropriate help and there has to be a real profound understanding on the part of the sexual predator that what they were doing was wrong and criminal.
Should he go to jail?
If he's a rapist he absolutely should go to jail, yes.
What would you say to Harvey Weinstein today?
Reporter: Her answer surprised us but she wants to make it clear she'll never forgive what he did to women, but something else comes from her deep faith.
When I spoke at the united nations on the modern slave trade I said my prayers beforehand.
I said my prayers before I did this.
I actually prayed last week and I said dear god in case I forget to pray please let this be the prayer, you know, and what I would say to Harvey is I love you and I understand that you are sick and suffering and there is help for a guy like you too and it's entirely up to you to get that help.
It's going to surprise a lot of people.
It's just who I am, you know, it's, frankly, it's an easier way to roll through the world than the alternative.
Reporter: And she says only if men and women work together and we change all of this for good.
What is your bracelet?
Unstoppable.
Unstoppable.
You think this is the moment.
This is the moment.
And if we want it to be the moment it will for sure be the moment.
And we're going to stay on this story.
The voices of those women are so haunting and there's so much more to be done about what works, what can we do together.
When you hear that one woman who was talking about I get emotional just thinking about it, that she'd lose her job and -- Feed her family.
And feed her family and she said how I don't have a face, I don't have a voice and to feel that way, invisible.
And where does she go?% there are some experiments now with new websites.
There's one called Calista or college students where you can go anonymously and post things and they can see if women are posting the same story about someone and you can know you're not alone.
Yes, and Ashley said men and women have to work together in fixing this.
That's right and also across party lines as you know she's a Democrat.
She she's been a big Democrat, big divide there in the country and she knows there's questions about speaking out about her Weinstein when she does but she's explained why she's doing it now and why she just felt it was impossible before.
But she knows there are those that questions and we ask about those too.
We ask a lot about those, as well.
But she's just said can we just let this not be a partisan issue because it's across every party line, every geographic line.
If we can't band together on this, what can we?
And there's so much more to your conversation with Ashley and I know that you'll be on "World news tonight" with David and also "Nightline" as well.
It is great to see you, Diane.
It is great to see you.
Great to be back with.
You and for you to be back here with such a powerful voice.
You know when you see this woman it is must see TV when you see her.
You just perk up and you know you got to listen even more.
Love you, robin.
Right back at Ya.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jimmy Kimmel rips Trump over 'love fest' comments President trumpet bid.
How he's been feuding with a couple of senators from his own party.
Jeff flake of Arizona and Bob Corker of Tennessee Iran has less right now senator corker yesterday implied in no uncertain terms that the president is a liar Jeff flake announced he won't run for reelection because he can no longer support Donald Trump made a big speech about it this morning on GMA he said he thinks a lot of Republicans feel that way and expects that they too will speak out soon.
Against the president and incredibly does the president decided to tweet about this that it.
He said there are no problems and GOP.
In fact they loved him so much they cannot sit down when he walks general look at this so nice being with a Republican senator Slade multiple standing ovations.
Most are great people who want big tax cuts the meaning we're Republican senators yesterday outside a flake in corker was a love fest with standing innovations and great ideas.
For USA.
Jeff flake within 18% approval rating in Arizona said a lot of my colleagues have spoken out really they just gave me a standing O.
Who wants to be the one the tellem the people are required to stand with the president and.
OK. Good day.
Every time I walk into a Starbucks guy behind the counter asked if I want coffee.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Movie chain proposes charging more for hit movies We are back with that big change that could be coming to your movie theater.
More than 4 billion seats go empty every year so regal cinemas is trying to change that with a pricing proposal that would charge less for flops and Diane Macedo has the details.
Good morning.
Shopping for movie tickets may soon feel like shopping for concert tickets.
The more popular the show, the more expensive the ticket but it means cheaper tickets when demand is low and regal is hoping that adds up to more people in the seat and at the concession stands.
Whether you went to a theater to watch the smash hit "Wonder woman" or a box office flop like "Baywatch," you probably paid the same piece for admission.
But this morning, a movie movie theater giant is trying to change that in an industry trying to fill seats.
Regal is partnering with atom to test demand-based pricing and means you could pay to see more like "Despicable me 3" or save a few bucks and see a less successful film like "Mother".
Why don't you want kids.
Excuse me.
Reporter: Atom tickets tells ABC they believe moviegoers will see S more often when presented with flex financial flexibility.
They're giving mixed reviews.
A cheap price for a bad movie.
Cost less to go to a movie, then I would definitely go.
Keep it simple.
Charge your admission and let me decide if I want to see it or not.
Atom tickets is partly owned by our parent company Disney and haven't said how it will work.
One source of concern whether people will avoid regal cinemas if they want to see a popular movie.
On the flip side if you have weird taste in movies or, say, weird hour, perhaps and this sounds pretty good, right?
Yeah, go to the early bird special.
So they say they play on testing it in a few markets first and take it from there.
So what do they do, put out the movie if it doesn't do well in the first place they drop the price.
They didn't explain exactly but it works with hotel rooms and airline tickets.
Demand pricing is already out in other markets so planning to apply some to movie tickets?
See what happens.
I'll buy the cheap tickets.
All right.
For all of you.
On me.
All right.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Back to the Future' star talks directing 100th episode of 'The Goldbergs' Perhaps they doctor here there's a major crisis between me and Jackie.
Only my love guru can happen in this is YAC do you waiting all day lay it on Greek you know hang onto your head acts.
Turns out Jackie likes Star Trek more than Starr reports.
I do about what it's a backed force freaks and trek he's never to don't want were sworn enemies it's okay.
He is what she'd do.
Nothing cause it's all down.
If data tracking I lose all my street cred with my bullets it to screeners discreet and who are these bullies need Yankee are doomed.
I ever got and Wesley master here in Los Angeles with Lea Thompson who directed the episode of the Goldberg that everyone's asking peca yeah.
Congratulations I got from the show it's evident reference back to see your thinking is the pats super exciting to this for the hundredth episode of the show what was likes to work on such a huge episode.
Of this blacks account.
It's huge honor.
It's so he's a big deal in the upcoming shows and actually make it 200 episodes so congratulations goal birds.
If I actually directed hundredth episode it's a tipper.
Which I did.
It's just we just finished a year ago so I'm I'm I'm Herbert did.
Yes.
And that I was just really excited and I love the snow on such a fan and that was my second Culbertson and just in pre pro for the next one right now were and just do my shot list.
So is it what is it like on the sat has it really a family vibe he adding is it really is and that.
They are they're a lot of the kids kind of had.
Done very little or nothing before they started the show soak.
They've all kind of grown up together as actors and as a family and sell it's really fun working with them and seen.
How you know what they bring to their characters it's just I just sit behind a monitor in last wonderful.
To you a hundred episodes or how to have been a celebration afterward yes what did you guys you know we katic peak.
That was crazy doesn't it look like decayed and that the it was Sony's in the Guinness TV is a fat fat fat not about katic about party favorite the whole crew of so I was pretty excited at the Mason yes so I ask everyone is looking for work should hope and pray that they get to work on a an episode typical you have they they didn't do that on switched at birth they actually canceled the show will not have a salad.
I think it's as bad pick it.
Well we actually.
One.
The actors on the show had something to say about what it was like to work with TO.
So we'll play that right now.
Thompson and I listen I don't want to overstate.
I Thomson.
Is the greatest director that's ever lived or that ever will live right and it's not for debate and so it was an honor.
It's not up for debate.
Cooling.
She's so great love her so much so it's really sweetie.
Cindy you feel pretty good especially if you're going back to know that they feel and benefits are at stake el Al take.
What is it like to work to work with Wendi it means she's such a funny woman.
To work with her I don't want to put words in your mouth but it's like it would be a pretty good thing too damn well it's like she's a comedy stradivarius.
The you know which is like a great silent.
And that that's always a joy in.
It's.
I can't tell you it's interesting thing having been an actor for so long an and I've actually been attractive for like twelve years but.
And I work with a lot of times I direct people like that in working less than at acted with but.
It's.
It's such chill lying when you can exit.
Eat there and want someone create hand and do different tapes and see what they deal in when their great.
It like Wendy is it's nothing but.
Purer.
Merry Christmas got hit thinking.
All one thing I think viewers have really enjoyed seeing with the Goldberg is the evolution sort of her character's journey to you figuring out who she is both as a mother and outside of her family room.
I'm act of women connect to that that's something that you connect you want some up all this idea of having having it all I guess.
Absolutely.
There are active raising children.
Multiple children or even 12 child is so.
Crazy it's like so pat that sold hot summer to work involved this is so involved so.
Hired.
And when you kind of realize that they're growing up in their comment you kind of need to let them beyond their own.
Try to think like yourself and it's a really difficult transition it's a really hard thing.
And you know I think all all mothers can relate to it takes just a change of you know you think oh GM got all these years laughed.
And I spent so much energy in this direction I need to and Connor start taking care myself and to reach.
From what I understand the minute you have kids your priority shift in and it immediately.
And so good for sure.
It sits just sort of go back in time I guess and think Koch what was that like fort heads.
Seems like it would be.
A whole other lifetime or something along those lines.
And there's an.
You know there's a grace in knowing you know what season nearing and you know what what time that is to do things then you know there is it it is actually my mother uses say.
That it adds it's hardest to let go of your kid.
And it and it's really important because that's the only way they're actually gonna survive that's a way I thought I like I want him to be able to survive without me which is super important and Bev has a hard time went.
The.
But that also been working with your daughters on some of I know you just dead.
Your first you direct your first feature found near spectacular man which was.
Written by one of your daughters and and features both of them in front of the camera and you're in front of the camera as well.
Like.
You know it took us it's taken us for years says.
Get the movie out we're.
Where in about two different film festivals were going to Savannah now we were just in the left them film the in the Twin Cities and asylum Alley and that's also.
And in that film festival circuit in the movie to come next year.
And actually a three producers have had like babies.
It will.
Haven't Philly it's really interesting my daughter wrote the movie I developed it with her it's the first piece of kind of art that I've actually been.
She created at that I've been in it kind of like molding it for years and so I feel really really proud of it and you know there's not enough stories by women.
And especially young women and young women iron usually written by Alderman.
And they write their kind of dream pixie whatever they call it an attic exude an exit you know that.
And it you know I felt really strongly about telling she wrote she's 22 when she wrote it telling an on a woman's story.
From the perspective of a young woman.
And I and personally having to play a lot of liberals written written Fineman.
When I was younger I just feel really strongly that we may need to tell their own stories.
Yeah I think.
It can't sing at that really interesting that it's very funny very personal.
And a look a lot like the gold ores in the sense that she's she's really.
Really honest about her family and how she feels and about her sex life you know Amy the Colbert thief.
So honest about a lot of things are meant that theme.
They're not exactly the prettiest side.
They're there really.
You know personal rights specific.
And so that's what she did and that's what we tried to do with convenience really be proud of.
That's a it she also scored.
Really bad Matty yeah Maggie scored as she wrote five songs for it and only 1% of movies are scored by women really.
Well you bring up against an interesting point about the importance of women.
Reading Aaron movies and being involved with them in Hollywood.
Obviously we know a lot have come out the last couple weeks with Harvey Weinstein as a woman who has worked in the industry now for many years and having daughters.
Who are following in your facts apps.
Is there anything you told them before they became actor says or any advice you gave them as they began to get.
Girls think it's the whole world wasn't really about acting.
Because I've had so many incredible wonderful interactions with men and women in Hollywood I've.
I've loved working in this instance Chris have had a few hash tag me to this but like everyone.
Think sadly.
But what I what I think it's really important is to raise people degrees men and women.
With the strength to stand up for themselves.
For the for the with the notion of right and wrong with the idea that you don't get anything for free you burn your job through.
Hard work.
And it's.
Perseverance and talent and that someone says he want to come to my hotel also we can talk about your job and they're creepy old guy.
Well let's go on not and never done anything in just don't dealing.
So I think that's how I tend to raise my kids with a sense.
Confidence about themselves and their abilities.
And you know just common sense commons.
Moments you know.
Well.
Not to change the subject that you brought a confidence and we have some some photos are believed.
You dancing in the league are all.
Allegro cabaret benefit.
Which of course isn't part of breast cancer research a not tell a little bit about what that was like.
And when Al own and.
I was really busy so I did cabaret on Broadway at the Sam Mendez.
Rob Marshall version of cabaret for like eight months so likely tell evils and I dance in my underwear free.
Incredibly glorious moment month so when he asked me saying I could learn the songs I said let me sing something from cabaret sound.
I had decided seen my hair and then when I got there there like some underwear.
Pick all the girls to get dancing girls and they're all wearing their underwear and like a pack.
Only now do they weren't.
You know hack idea.
He it was heard good kinds ain't got analysts' for the song the song is kind of you know about nineteen.
Forties.
Sperling nets for.
Player Dancing With The Stars fans will be happy and here's a stale than I am still answering what you mentioned that you're going back to the Goldberg's so.
I knew your first stamp that is next week what are you most looking forward to you when you Seagates this group again.
You know it's just sit tick it's it's a great group and I.
It's always it's so much fun for me to watch Adam Goldberg.
With the way he thinks the his attention to DT now.
Do we he.
Retry eights and re works things funds.
Scientists.
I'm always learning like I think that's the key to life is just keep excited to keep learning to keep being.
In law.
Of the beauty that we have here in thing.
Intelligence and you know of other people so silent for its Eric just creating I love to create I left to work with the group of people that are all kind of trying to go for the same goal benefits to make people laugh and feel could've.
The world a little bit right now.
Mall for and we can all technologies that Catholic and I use that right now well.
Think you so much for joining us and for talking about the episode and everything else.
The Goldberg's airs tonight at 8 o'clock right out here on ABC.
Again I'm Wesley Muster here with Lea Thompson in Los Angeles in Q so much for spending some time with us and we'll see you soon.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Houston Texans star J.J. Watt announced his plans for the more than $30 million in donations he raised for Hurricane Harvey relief on Thursday, naming four partners who would receive $31.5 million within the next two years.
The partners -- Americares, Feeding America, SBP and Save the Children -- are expected to use the funds to rebuild homes, restore childcare centers, provide food and address Houston residents' health needs in the areas impacted by the storm.
The remaining money, nearly $7 million, will be held for distribution in 2018.
"While I understand the total recovery from Hurricane Harvey could require upwards of $200 billion," Watt said in a statement, "and this $37 million will not be able to help every single person as I so badly wish it could, I have made it my mission to ensure this money makes as large of an impact as possible."
Brett Coomer/Houston Chronicle via AP "I cannot thank everyone enough for their support and donations from across the country and around the world," Watt said in a video.
"Houston will bounce back from this and we will rise up stronger than ever."
Watt, 28, announced his fundraiser at the end of August and set the initial goal at $200,000.
Within a matter of days, more than 160,000 donated more than $27 million.
"Just to see the snowball effect, and to see how much good there is out there, and how many people wanted to get involved was ... incredible," Watt said in an interview with "Good Morning America" co-anchor Michael Strahan last month.
"I've seen little girls set up lemonade stands.
I've seen kids trying to sell, you know, Popsicles on the road.
I've seen businesses offering up ... portions of their sales or all of their sales.
...
It's been truly something incredible to witness."
Harvey Weinstein has sued the Weinstein Co. for access to his records as he mounts a legal defense for himself in light of recent allegations made against him.
Interested in Harvey Weinstein?
Add Harvey Weinstein as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Harvey Weinstein news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The producer, who has been accused by dozens of women of sexual misconduct, is demanding access to his emails and personnel file from his time at the studio he co-founded.
In paperwork obtained by ABC News, Weinstein's attorneys claimed that the documents are necessary not only because of the civil and criminal allegations made against him, but also for a possible wrongful termination lawsuit he may file against the company.
Weinstein also believes that by reviewing his files, he could help the Weinstein Co. defend itself against claims made against board members, the documents state.
Representatives for the Weinstein Co. did not respond to requests for comment.
A representative for Harvey Weinstein also had no comment.
This month, more than 40 women have accused Weinstein, 65, of sexual misconduct, which led to Weinstein Co. board members terminating the former studio head immediately.
Weinstein tendered his resignation from the board shortly thereafter.
However, there have been several legal ramifications from the scandal, as well.
Earlier this week, Dominique Huett, who claims that Weinstein forced oral sex on her in 2010, filed a $5 million lawsuit against the Weinstein Co., in which she claimed that board members were aware of the producer's history of alleged sexual misconduct and did nothing about it.
Bob Weinstein, Harvey Weinstein's younger brother, recently told The Hollywood Reporter that he and his fellow board members "did not know the extent" of the allegations.
Meanwhile, New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman has announced that he has opened an inquiry into the Weinstein Co. to investigate claims of sexual misconduct and harassment made against Harvey Weinstein, and the Los Angeles Police Department confirmed that authorities were investigating a potential victim of a 2013 sexual assault involving the disgraced producer.
"Any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein," Weinstein's representative told ABC News on Tuesday.
Image copyright Getty Images Jason Derulo is set to be the first guest host of BBC One's new primetime music show Sounds Like Friday Night, which launches on, umm, Friday night.
What can viewers expect from the show's debut?
Celebrities who turn up to TV studios often have a list of diva demands for their dressing room.
A bowl of exclusively yellow M&Ms.
A room filled with white lilies.
Or, in Justin Bieber's case, an Indian yoga casket.
So what will Jasooooon Deruuuuuulo be requesting when he arrives on set?
"I'm going to demand a basketball court," the singer laughs as he speaks to BBC News.
"I have to have a basketball court in the back, and if anyone comes back there just know that you might get dunked on.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption This should be easy enough to install "So you've got to be careful where you walk.
If you walk underneath the goal I'm dunking on you Shaq-style."
(He's referring to US basketball player Shaquille O'Neal, to save the non-sports fans among us a trip to Google.)
Sounds Like Friday Night will be the first regular, mainstream music programme on the BBC since Top of the Pops was cancelled in 2006.
But Jason won't be riding solo, as regular hosts Greg James and A.Dot will be joining him to do sketches and help introduce and interview other artists.
"It's going to be a lot of fun," says Jason, who is no stranger to TV presenting.
"I've done quite a bit - I was a presenter on the Mobo awards, in the US I did the iHeart Radio awards, so I've done a bit of presenting in my day.
Image caption Greg James and A.Dot will be joined by a different guest host every week "Whenever I can have a good time with a show that I'm a fan of, or people that I'm a fan of, I'm always down."
Jason will be performing himself on the first show, and introducing artists like Charlie Puth and Jessie Ware.
(Next Friday's episode will be a Liam special - with Payne guest presenting and Gallagher performing.)
Music shows used to be everywhere on British TV - CD:UK, Popworld, Top of the Pops - but these days a band is left with few choices if they can't get on to Jools Holland or that five-minute slot at the end of The Graham Norton Show.
So is there a gap in the market for a new music series like this?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Liam Payne will be guest presenting next week's show "100%," Jason says.
"I think people are craving it more than they know.
It's something that we all have a little nostalgia for.
So this show will definitely be one of those ones that brings back old memories and may start a new journey.
"People have so many options these days, so you've just got to give them something that's going to keep their eyes glued.
"There's definitely a slot for that, it just has to be something that's so captivating that means they're going to stop looking at their phones or YouTube."
Sounds Like Friday Night debuts on BBC One at 19:30 BST on Friday 27 October.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
US singer Gregory Porter says the rise of white nationalism is no surprise as "we knew it was there".
In August, white supremacists marched in Virginia and last week protesters disrupted a speech made by far-right lobbyist Richard Spencer in Florida.
Porter told BBC Music News LIVE: "We saw it disguised a whole bunch of different ways.
"Like my mother always said, 'I'm glad when it shows its face, that way I know it's here and I'm not guessing'."
'Serious time' The singer releases a new album of Nat King Cole covers on Friday, and has spoken of his hope that music should be used to connect people from all walks of life.
"In a way it's time for artists and thoughtful people to get to work," he said.
"It's a serious time and I think that opposition will be reflected in the music.
"People will rage against that machine but there will also be some thoughtful people who will find some craft or word to speak directly to the people who allow for this type of negative energy.
"It's why the last line of [Nat King Cole's] song Nature Boy is important to me: 'The greatest thing you'll ever learn is just to love and be loved in return'."
Image caption Porter, seen here during a rehearsal, performed at the Royal Albert Hall earlier this year Porter, who performed at the Royal Albert Hall in September, suggested one of his own recent tracks was written as a direct message to US President Donald Trump, who was criticised for what some saw as a sluggish condemnation of white nationalists who attacked protesters in Charlottesville during the summer.
"It's the number one reason why I recorded my song When Love was King, it's a direct message to our leaders, to my president, absolutely and I don't know if they hear but I hope they do."
Image copyright Rosanne Cash/Facebook Image caption Johnny Cash's family shared a statement after a white supremacists was pictured in a t-shirt bearing his name Porter's comments follow on from those made by the family of late country singer Johnny Cash, who denounced a far-right protester wearing a T-shirt bearing their father's name on the Charlottesville march.
In a statement, they said they "were sickened by the association".
Porter said: "That shows you how big a fool a person is, marching in a Nazi protest with a Johnny Cash T-shirt.
Johnny Cash's first wife was black you fool.
he definitely wouldn't agree with you."
Nat King Cole & Me is out now.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Netflix Image caption Gaten Matarazzo, Noah Schnapp, Caleb McLaughlin and Finn Wolfhard star in Stranger Things Spoiler warning: Includes plot details Netflix's hit sci-fi show Stranger Things is back for a second series and its bigger budget makes it even more ambitious.
Set over Halloween, the new series introduces several new characters, ready to fight the Demogorgon as it returns to the town of Hawkins.
This trailer reveals that the character Eleven survives, but Netflix has been tight-lipped on any other clues.
Here's everything you need to refresh your memory before series two starts.
The basics Image copyright Netflix Image caption Natalia Dyer and Joe Keery play Nancy Wheeler and Steve Harrington in the show Series 1 starts in November 1983 when Will Byers (Noah Schnapp) disappears and a girl with a shaved head called Eleven (Millie Bobby Brown) escapes from a government lab.
Will's friends Mike (Finn Wolfhard), Dustin (Gaten Matarazzo), and Lucas (Caleb McLaughlin) use Eleven, who happens to have telekinetic powers, to try to track him down.
Will's brother Jonathan (Charlie Heaton) and Mike's sister Nancy (Natalie Dyer) then get involved after Nancy's best friend Barb also disappears.
Will's mum Joyce (Winona Ryder) realises she can communicate with her son through electricity and gets the town police chief Jim (David Harbour) involved in the plan to find him.
The more complicated bit Image copyright Netflix Image caption Millie Bobby Brown plays Eleven in the show It turns out there's an alternative reality to Hawkins, which is dark, stormy and cold, plus it has a monster called the Demogorgon living in it.
The Demogorgon feeds on blood, which explains why Mike and Barb (Shannon Purser) both go missing.
They're both trapped by the monster after having an accident and bleeding as a result.
Viewers also discover that Eleven was kidnapped at birth and trained by the government to be a spy to listen in on Russians.
The evil Dr Brenner (Matthew Modine) has manipulated Eleven for her whole life and spends the series trying to get her back after she escapes, but her amazing powers mean she can kill his henchmen with her mind.
How the series ends Image copyright Netflix Image caption David Harbour and Winona Ryder play Jim Hopper and Joyce Byers in the show Joyce and Jim enter the alternative reality and eventually find Will, who's been kept captive by the Demogorgon, and revive him.
Nancy and Jonathan lure the monster to his house in an attempt to kill it.
They set lots of traps and think they've killed it with the help of Nancy's boyfriend Steve (Joe Kerry).
But it soon reappears at Hawkins Middle School, where Mike, Dustin and Lucas are hiding Eleven.
At the same time, evil Dr Brenner and his henchmen arrive.
Eleven kills most of the men and saves her friends, but both she and the Demogorgon disappear.
The fate of Eleven, Dr Brenner and the Demogorgon remains to be answered in Stranger Things 2.
Stranger Things 2 is released internationally on Netflix on Friday 27 October.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Disney Channel Image caption (Left to right) Sofia Wylie, Joshua Rush, Peyton Elizabeth Lee and Asher Angel star in the show The Disney Channel is introducing a gay storyline for the first time in its show Andi Mack.
The channel is to set to make history when its season two premiere airs on Friday in the US.
It will see best friends Andi (Peyton Elizabeth Lee) and Cyrus (Joshua Rush) both admit they are attracted to the same boy.
A Disney spokesperson says the show "sends a powerful message about inclusion and respect for humanity".
The statement added that the show's creator, Terri Minsky - who also made the hit Disney show Lizzie McGuire - and her team took "great care in ensuring that it's appropriate for all audiences."
The series is a coming-of-age show that revolves around 13-year-old girl Andi and her friends Cyrus, Buffy and Jonah.
In the season premiere, Andi is dealing with feelings for a boy she knows when her best friend Cyrus realises that he has feelings for the same boy.
Cyrus's story develops in later episodes as he begins to understand himself better with the help of his friends and family.
Rush said he was proud to bring the "groundbreaking storyline" to life.
'Thought, care and authenticity' To ensure Disney told the story in a sensitive and respectful way, they worked with child development experts on the storyline.
They also consulted PFLAG, the US's biggest LGBTQ organisation.
Their executive director Dr Jaime Grant said: "Coming out requires honest self-reflection, no small amount of bravery and a safe place with at least one trusted person.
"Andi Mack's creative team captures this moment of revelation with such thought, care, and authenticity, it will be a memory moment for some, and a teachable moment for many."
Kim Sanders from LGBT rights group Stonewall said: "It's great to see Disney taking this step.
For young lesbian, gay and bi people it sends a powerful message, demonstrating that they are not alone.
"We need to see more people with different sexual orientations and gender identities on TV and in film."
Image copyright Disney Image caption LeFou is the first gay character in a Disney film Andi Mack's average viewer is 10 years old.
This means it will attract a similar audience to Beauty and the Beast, the 2017 adaptation of which featured the film side of the Disney franchise's first gay character.
In the film, starring Emma Watson, gay character LeFou comes to terms with fancying his sidekick Gaston.
The reworked Power Rangers film, which was out earlier this year, also had an openly gay superhero in it.
Yellow ranger Trini is depicted in the film as having "girlfriend problems".
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Malthe has been in films such as Elektra and Lake Placid Norwegian actress and model Natassia Malthe has accused Harvey Weinstein of raping her in a London hotel room after the 2008 Bafta awards ceremony.
She told a press conference in New York she met Weinstein at an after party and felt pressured into telling him she was staying at the Sanderson Hotel.
Malthe alleges Weinstein banged on her door, she let him in and he raped her.
Weinstein has previously issued a statement saying he denies all allegations of non-consensual sex.
In a separate development, Reuters reports that Weinstein is suing the Weinstein Co, the firm he founded and until recently was co-chairman of.
In the lawsuit filed in Delaware's Court of Chancery, Weinstein said he needed the information to prevent the company from being harmed by unjustified legal settlements, and to find out whether the board and executives wrongfully terminated him from his post there.
'I disassociated' Malthe, who has appeared in films including This Means War alongside Reese Witherspoon, Tom Hardy and Chris Pine, said she was asleep when she was awoken by Weinstein's "repeated pounding" on the door.
She said she heard someone yelling: "Open the door Natassia Malthe, it's Harvey Weinstein."
Malthe claimed when she opened the door, Weinstein implied sex would get her a role in an upcoming film and then began to masturbate in front of her.
She said he then "pushed me back and forced himself onto me.
It was not consensual.
He did not use a condom".
She added: "I was completely grossed out.
I believe that I disassociated during the time that he was having sex with me.
I laid still and closed my eyes and just wanted it to end.
I was like a dead person.
Afterwards I lay there in complete disgust."
Image copyright AFP Image caption Weinstein has "unequivocally denied" all allegations of non-consensual sex She said she received a script the next day and then returned to Los Angeles.
Malthe said she was given the impression she had landed a role in the movie Nine, a film produced by Weinstein that would star Daniel Day-Lewis, Nicole Kidman and Dame Judi Dench.
Malthe said Weinstein later asked her to meet him at the Beverly Hills Peninsula Hotel, telling her an assistant would be present.
But Malthe said when she got there, he instead asked her to engage in a threesome with him and another woman.
'Powerful men' She says she refused and when she later called him to turn down a role in one of his films, he became angry and verbally abusive.
"I had experienced sexual harassment from other powerful men in Hollywood, but my experiences with Harvey were the worst," Malthe said.
Her lawyer Gloria Allred said Malthe is "considering" whether to make a report to police over the allegation.
The news comes the day after a former production assistant, Mimi Haleyi, also accused Weinstein of rape when he forcibly performed oral sex on her without her consent in 2006.
Another actress and model, Dominique Huett, also said she was raped by Weinstein when he allegedly forcibly performed oral sex on her.
She has now has become the first woman to sue The Weinstein Company, alleging a single count of negligence.
Dozens of women have made accusations against Weinstein this month, including rape and sexual assault.
He has "unequivocally denied" all allegations of non-consensual sex.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Nick Grimshaw has recorded the lowest listening figures for BBC Radio 1's breakfast show since records began.
The DJ, who took over the slot from Chris Moyles in 2012, saw his audience drop below five million listeners per week in the third quarter of this year.
The show recorded 4.93 million weekly listeners between July and September - down from 5.5 million last quarter.
Controller Ben Cooper defended the stats and said it was still "the most relevant youth brand in the UK today".
He also said there was still a 10.5 million weekly listenership across the station and that Radio 1 had 9.4 million subscribers on social media, with an additional five million on YouTube.
Listening figures for all stations are traditionally lower in the summer months - but Grimshaw's figures are the lowest for any Radio 1 breakfast show since audience research body Rajar began collecting data.
Image copyright PA Image caption A.Dot helped 1Xtra reach its highest ever breakfast show audience A source at Radio 1 said: "Grimmy is the number one breakfast show in the UK for young audiences and that's all they really care about.
"Teens are addicted to their phones so you can see why Radio 1 does so well on YouTube and Facebook."
There was better news for Radio 1's sister station - with A.Dot giving BBC Radio 1Xtra its highest ever audience for its breakfast show.
It recorded 390,000 listeners in the last quarter - up 33,000 on the previous three months.
People aged between 15-24 listened to just over 14 hours of radio per week last year - seven hours less than the average adult, and 15% less than they did a decade earlier, according to broadcasting regulator Ofcom.
Other Rajar headlines: Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Roman Kemp took over from Dave Berry on Capital's breakfast show earlier this year Roman Kemp 's Capital London breakfast show increased its audience - posting 1.11 million in the third quarter.
The results were up by nearly 30,000 on the previous three months - it was the first full quarter he's presented the show, after becoming host in May this year.
's Capital London breakfast show increased its audience - posting 1.11 million in the third quarter.
The results were up by nearly 30,000 on the previous three months - it was the first full quarter he's presented the show, after becoming host in May this year.
Chris Moyles's Radio X breakfast show has also grown its listenership, pulling in almost 75,000 more listeners across the same period, giving it a new weekly reach of 823,000.
Radio 2 had cause to celebrate after Ken Bruce achieved a record weekly reach of 8.7 million, up from 8.3 million in the second quarter.
Chris Evans's BBC Radio 2 breakfast show attracted 9.35 million listeners a week in the third quarter of this year, up from 9.01 million in the second quarter.
BBC Radio 4's Today programme saw a drop in its audience after enjoying a huge growth last quarter.
The flagship news programme had 7.06 million listeners a week in the third quarter, dipping from the 7.66 million a week figure it achieved in the second quarter.
Digital station BBC Radio 6 Music attracted a record 2.4 million listeners a week in the third quarter of the year, an increase from 2.2 million in the second quarter and 2.3 million last year.
New station Heart 80s, which was launched in March, reached 1.08m listeners per week, up from its maiden quarter by more than 230,000 listeners.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Maxine Peake has written a new play but won't appear in the cast She's known for her acting on stage and screen, but Maxine Peake has another career - writing plays about fearless women who overcame the odds in a man's world.
It took four policemen to physically hold Lillian Bilocca back when she tried to stop a trawler leaving port in Hull in 1968 at the height of her campaign for safety at sea.
Three ships and 53 lives had just been lost and emotions were high.
"Big Lil" was a fishwife, and her husband, father and son all worked on the trawlers.
She had had enough.
She tried to board under-manned ships to prevent them from departing and took a petition with 10,000 signatures to the government.
For their efforts, she and her fellow "headscarf revolutionaries" were met with disdain, misogyny and even death threats by some Hull men and trawler owners.
She was blacklisted and never worked in the fishing industry again.
But the campaign worked.
The law was changed, and lives were undoubtedly saved.
Image caption Lillian Bilocca died in 1988 at the age of 59 Bilocca is the heroine of Maxine Peake's latest play The Last Testament of Lillian Bilocca, which opens in Hull next week.
"It felt an important story to tell," the actress and playwright says.
"It's about women putting their head above the parapet, and she did get punished for it by the community."
One of Britain's most sought-after performers, Peake has starred in TV dramas including Shameless, Silk and Three Girls, and films like The Theory of Everything.
But she also has a burning desire to tell her own stories - mostly about unsung British heroines whose achievements have been swept under history's carpet.
Before The Last Testament of Lillian Bilocca, she wrote Beryl, about Beryl Burton, the champion cyclist who went faster than her male rivals, as well as Queens of the Coal Age, about four miners' wives who tried to save pits from closure by occupying a mine.
'Determination and fearlessness' The Bolton-born actress and writer wants to celebrate "ordinary women who had led extraordinary lives", she explains.
She says: "There's a determination and a fearlessness in those women that I really gravitated towards.
They were 'get up and go and sod the consequences'.
"I sort of aspire to [that].
They really spoke to me.
They didn't let being a woman obviously it was an issue, but they didn't feel it was something that ever stopped them or became a barrier.
They knew what they wanted to do.
"With Beryl and with Lil, they had a passion and they followed it.
I suppose that's what I've always tried to do, although it's not always easy."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Maxine Peake isn't keeping up with the Kardashians There are some "amazing role models out there" today, Peake says - but she believes Beryl, Lil and the rest set better examples than some celebrities who are held up as idols for young women.
She's looking at you, the Kardashians.
"Look at our role models," she says.
"I won't mention her name, but there's a family, you know, and it's all about beauty and looks, and that drives me insane.
"For young women now it's about education.
That's our weapon.
If you want to fight, as they say, the pen is the sword."
Social media 'holding us back' The smartphone may not be the sword, though - especially if social media gets in the way of our path to personal freedom.
Peake continues: "It's about following your dream and being brave and - I know it's difficult - but we get very stilted by what other people think of us in this media age now.
"I feel in some respects lucky that it wasn't part of my generation.
It feels like it's even more [about] the body beautiful and selfies and Twitter, and people getting held back by what other people think about them and opinions about them.
"You just want to say to girls and young women, 'You can.
Think big.
Even if you don't get to where you're going, you'll get somewhere along the ladder.'"
Image caption Prepare the Baftas: Maxine Peake in Three Girls Peake herself is near the top of the acting ladder, despite saying she's never taken the most obvious career opportunities.
Her high-profile roles have been peppered with projects like a concept album about the Pendle Witch Trials, playing Hamlet on stage - and now writing a play about a Hull fishwife.
"Sometimes people go, 'Why are you doing that now?
You had quite a good acting career there,'" she says.
"But that's me.
If the path's going one way, I have to jump off.
"If I feel like if there's a few too many people on that path with me then I want to jump off and find another one."
She's not the only person celebrating Lillian Bilocca's story, almost 50 years after her campaign and 30 years since her death from cancer at the age of 59.
As well as Peake's play, which is being staged at Hull Guildhall in a production by Hull Truck theatre, a TV drama is in the works from Red Production Company, which made shows like Trust Me and Happy Valley.
'Lingering hate' against Lil And by coincidence, another play is being staged in Hull at the same time as Peake's.
Lil has been written by Hull playwright Val Holmes, who was 15 when Bilocca was fighting for better safety.
Growing up, she recalls how Bilocca's name was "often used with this lingering hate".
Men in the fishing industry often felt women shouldn't be interfering with their business, while the extra measures her campaign won - like full crews, radio operators for all ships, improved safety equipment and a "mother ship" with medical facilities for all fleets - were blamed for the economic decline of the industry, Holmes explains.
"The awareness is there now about what she actually achieved," the writer says.
"It's in the schools.
But up to about 15 years ago, no.
They forgot all about what she'd actually achieved and the fate of the fishing industry was laid at her door.
"I think people are just realising what she did actually achieve.
The thousands of lives that were saved because of her and the other women's actions.
"I think they really do appreciate that now.
And thank goodness."
The Last Testament of Lillian Bilocca is at Hull Guildhall from 3-18 November.
Lil is at Jubilee Central, Hull, from 6-11 November.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption L-R: Diana Vickers, Ms Dynamite and Kate Nash Earlier this week, Kate Nash took to Twitter to criticise BuzzFeed for their article about noughties singers who are no longer in the charts.
The listicle features 33 artists who "only exist in the memories of British millennials", but Nash was quick to argue that a lack of recent chart success doesn't stop them from being active or credible musicians.
"I have huge problems with how the industry disposes of artists," she tweeted, "it's a difficult career to maintain."
BuzzFeed told the BBC: "We love Kate Nash and really did want to be her!
Many of our posts reference nostalgia for things we love and this list is one of those, definitely not intended to be taken literally."
But Nash's comments raised questions about the wider issue of how much high chart positions and record deals equate to success in the music industry.
The 30-year-old's last top 40 hit may have been in 2010, but she has recently written for Willow Smith and Rita Ora, and will release a new album next year.
Nash also has several film and TV credits and is currently filming the second series of hit Netflix show Glow.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Rebekka Johnson, Sydelle Noel, Kate Nash and Kia Stevens all star in Netflix's GLOW Peter Robinson, music writer and creator of Popjustice, told the BBC: "Hit records have a magical ability to take us to a specific time or place in our lives so it's fair to say Kate Nash's hits will have a special significance for a certain age group.
"But several entries in the article might have benefitted from a brief visit to Wikipedia."
The musicians on the list included Ms Dynamite, Blazin' Squad, Diana Vickers, Mis-Teeq, La Roux, 5ive, Rachel Stevens, The 411, and So Solid Crew.
"If you're a fan, it's natural to be excited when your favourite artist does well commercially, and disappointed if their latest release looks like a failure, particularly because labels tend to drop acts when sales take a dip," Robinson said.
"But if you're ignoring new music because it's not selling, and if you're allowing your tastes to be dictated by whose records are selling well, then, well, enjoy your Bradley Walsh album."
The BuzzFeed piece refers to millennials - people that grew up in the 00s.
But according to singer Sandi Thom, who is also one of the 33 artists on the list, they are not as fickle as some may think.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sandi Thom performing at her album launch in 2008 "Some of my biggest fans are kids under 10, and with the new era of Spotify anyone is discoverable or re-discoverable," she told the BBC.
"I couldn't care less what a journalist writes about me and my career.
"Making music is a privilege and if you can continue to do so throughout your career like all of the artists have been doing that were mentioned in the article, you're one lucky person!"
Robinson also addressed Nash's tweets about the mental health impact of being an artist who is trying to make it in the industry.
Skip Twitter post by @katenash Also the reason I cant let this slide is because I happen to be in a great, happy place in my life.
Which is difficult for anyone 2 achieve Kate Nash (@katenash) October 24, 2017 Report Skip Twitter post 2 by @katenash But I am and there have been many times over the past 10 years when I havent been ok. Mentally, financially, emotionally, physically.
Kate Nash (@katenash) October 24, 2017 Report "Being dropped is like being made redundant, which is gutting in any line of work, except to make matters worse, for an artist it happens in public," he said.
"And whereas most of us could bounce back and look for other work in the same area, in the music industry people are often seen as damaged goods: they had their chance, they blew it.
"The irony of course is that many of the planet's biggest artists, from Lady Gaga and Beyonce to Katy Perry and Bruno Mars, were all dropped before they became huge."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Peter Robinson says Beyonce was dropped by her record label before she became famous Skip Twitter post 3 by @katenash Also I have huge problems with how the industry disposed of artists, its a difficult career to maintain so this is actually a discussion Kate Nash (@katenash) October 24, 2017 Report Being dropped is something Nash discusses in her tweets, saying its unfair to make fun of "artists that got dropped or aren't in the charts anymore.
"Most artists I know are struggling to be able to continue and may have to give up."
The BuzzFeed article describes Nash as "the cute vintage-dress-wearing girl we all wanted to be back in 2007.
"Presumably these days she's wearing baggy jumpers and DMs [Doc Martens] but who knows?"
Nash references these comments in her tweets, saying "the media have talked about me this way my entire career, since I was 20 years old".
Skip Twitter post 4 by @katenash To all the other independent/smaller artists out there wearing baggy jumpers & DMs I admire u.
This sleazy industry doesnt make it easy Kate Nash (@katenash) October 24, 2017 Report Sandi Thom agreed: "It doesn't matter what anyone writes in the press because me and Kate and whoever certainly aren't sitting crying into our cornflakes about it, we're out there keeping on keeping on!
"Doing what we love, being discovered and rediscovered every day thanks to the advent of streaming and playlists."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video There are more than 200 child actors working in the West End at any one time.
School of Rock the musical has just had its run extended in the West End.
Now the producers are holding open auditions across England to find the next round of children to play the roles.
Image copyright The Beatles Story Image caption The negatives date from around the time Lennon released his third single, Instant Karma A set of unseen images of John Lennon, which were in a "junk drawer" for over 30 years because they were thought to have no value, have been unveiled.
The 26 negatives, dating from 1970, were brought to a valuation day at Liverpool's The Beatles Story museum.
Their owner said his late father may have come by them while studying art in the 1970s.
The "intimate portraits" were "a rare find" and could be worth 10,000, auctioneer Darren Julien said.
He added that it was "not often when you find images of John Lennon that have never before been seen by the public".
The museum's marketing manager Diane Glover said their owner, who wanted to remain anonymous, had found them among his late father's possessions.
He told museum staff they had been put in the drawer for at least 34 years, because they were thought to have no value.
Image copyright The Beatles Story Image caption The negatives capture Lennon in a number of poses Image caption They resemble those taken at the BBC in February 1970, when Lennon was on Top of the Pops The negatives, which date from February 1970, capture Lennon at a pivotal point in his career - The Beatles were breaking up and he had recently released his third single, Instant Karma.
It became the first solo single by a member of the iconic rock band to sell more than a million copies in America.
Ms Glover said the negatives and images taken from them would be on display at the attraction from November, before being auctioned in 2018.
She added that the valuation day had also uncovered a signed Beatles Christmas Show programme from a concert in Bradford in 1963, which was valued at 8,000, and a signed John Lennon postcard, which was estimated to be worth 5,000.
Image copyright The Beatles Story Image caption A signed postcard from john Lennon was also discovered at the valuation day
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Fats was the father of eight children, whose first names all began with the letter A Fats Domino, one of the most influential rock and roll performers of the 1950s and 60s, has died aged 89.
The American rock and roll artist was best known for his songs Ain't That A Shame and Blueberry Hill.
The New Orleans singer sold more than 65 million records, outselling every 1950s rock and roll act except Elvis Presley.
His million-selling debut single, The Fat Man, is credited by some as the first ever rock and roll record.
An official from New Orleans coroner's office confirmed the death, which was earlier announced by Domino's daughter to a local television station.
Image copyright Clive Limpkin Image caption Fats Domino had more than 30 hit singles Fats Domino - whose real name was Antoine Domino Jr - was one of the first rhythm and blues artists to gain popularity with a white audience and his music was most prolific in the 1950s.
Domino had 11 US top 10 hits and his music is credited as a key influence on artists during the 1960s and 70s.
Elvis Presley referred to Fats Domino as "the real king of rock n roll" and Paul McCartney reportedly wrote the Beatles song Lady Madonna in emulation of his style.
In 1986 he was among the first inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, but by his later life Domino would no longer leave his Louisiana hometown - not even to accept the award.
New Orleans-born musician and actor Harry Connick Jr is among those who have paid tribute to Domino on Twitter, saying he had "helped pave the way for New Orleans piano players".
Skip Twitter post by @HarryConnickJR RIP fats domino... you helped pave the way for new orleans piano players... see you on top of that blueberry hill in the sky Harry Connick Jr (@HarryConnickJR) October 25, 2017 Report Rapper LL Cool J paid tribute to Domino for being an inspiration to so many: And Samuel L Jackson cited the lyrics of one of Domino's best loved songs: Fats Domino: A life in music Image copyright Getty Images Antoine "Fats" Domino Jr was born in New Orleans on 26 Feb 1928, the son of a violinist.
His parents were of Creole origin, and French Creole was spoken in the family.
He was musically inclined from an early age and learned piano from his brother in law, the jazz banjo player, Harrison Verrett.
He was given his nickname by bandleader Bill Diamond for whom he was playing piano in honky-tonks as a teenager.
He said the youngster's technique reminded him of two other great piano players, Fats Waller and Fats Pichon.
Domino left school at the age of 14 to work in a bedspring factory by day, and play in bars by night.
He was soon accompanying such New Orleans luminaries as Professor Longhair and Amos Milburn.
In the mid-1940s, he joined trumpeter Dave Bartholomew's band, and the two co-wrote Domino's first hit The Fat Man.
Suddenly, the New Orleans sound became popular nationwide.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption "Clean living keeps me in shape.
Righteous thoughts are my secret...And New Orleans home cooking" In an interview with the BBC in 1973, Domino spoke about his early life.
He said: "I was 17 when I made my first record in 1949.
I never thought about being professional.
I used to work in a lumberyard and that's where I first heard a number on a jukebox and I liked it.
It was a piano number.
It was called 'Swanee River Boogie' by Albert Ammonds."
Despite both musical heavyweights coming from New Orleans, Fats Domino said he only met Louis Armstrong twice in his life.
He told the BBC in a later interview: "I liked the way he was singing 'Blueberry Hill'.
See, a lot of people think I wrote 'Blueberry Hill' but I didn't.
"That number was wrote in 1927 and I recorded that song in 1957.
We just put a different background and I just sing it the way it would fit me and it came out great for me."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Earlier this week, it was reported that some of the close-up shots in Blue Planet II, which returns on Sunday, were filmed in a lab, rather than in the wild.
The Guardian said some crucial footage could only have been captured on film in "controlled laboratory conditions".
Attenborough defended the use of these shots, saying they are "not in anyway misleading", and makers say the series was overwhelmingly shot on location.
It's not the first time this issue has come up - back in 2011, a Frozen Planet programme, narrated by Sir David Attenborough, used some film footage of polar bear cubs in a Dutch animal park.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption Sir David Attenborough defends use of clips shot in labs One segment of Blue Planet II includes close-up lab footage of coral bleaching, which producers said could only be filmed with lights and specialised cameras.
We spoke to executive producer James Honeyborne about how much is filmed in the wild and the techniques involved in capturing those critical moments.
How much of Blue Planet II is filmed in studios or other artificial environments?
The overwhelming majority of Blue Planet II has been filmed in the wild.
Blue Planet II is a natural history series, led by the latest scientific discoveries and we've collaborated with hundreds of scientists around the world's oceans.
When working in the field, studying the smaller marine creatures, scientists sometimes set-up marine labs.
We've been lucky enough to access these for our 'macro' filming, to bring the full wonder and detail of marine life to our audience.
Image copyright BBC NHU Which scenes were these labs used for?
In the episode Coasts, we filmed rock pools with a marine lab in Vancouver.
To film in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife, and it would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab.
In the episode Deep, by collaborating with scientists based on a number of research vessels who were sampling the deep sea, we were able to film portraits of creatures such as fangtooth, that would otherwise be impossible to see.
Filming took place at sea in pitch-black, refrigerated filming chambers on board the ships.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption The fangtooth has the largest teeth relative to body size for any fish in the entire ocean.
And in the episode Green Seas, the underground burrow of a zebra mantis was recreated by scientists and film makers, to reveal the full story of the mantis shrimp's behaviour.
What kind of techniques are used?
Macro-filming is done on location - on board boats, or by the coast.
We have made short films for those who are interested, and because as you'll see, it's still a real challenge for the filmmakers!
You can check out the Making Of... films on the programme page for those who wish to delve deeper into the filming techniques.
Why is this necessary?
To compile a full portrait of the oceans, we need to tell the amazing story of tiny creatures, as well as the big ones.
Sometimes we have to film in controlled conditions to protect the welfare of the animals.
In others instances, it's to protect the safety of the scientists and crew.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption A Blue Planet producer uses a multi-directional hydrophone to record the sounds of the reef Are those techniques flagged up to viewers?
The vast majority of our audience prefer for us not to 'break the spell' in the commentary, so we don't explain how we achieved shots during the film itself.
And we only have time for one making-of sequence at the end of each episode.
We try to choose the one which was the most challenging to achieve, or the one in which the story of the crew's endeavours is most likely to engage the audience.
But online, we share in-depth insight into all of our filming techniques, through 'making of' films, blogs, interviews and Q&As.
That way we can maintain the trusting relationship with our audience that we enjoy.
If not flagged up, are viewers being misled?
Absolutely not.
On every episode we have a minimum of half a dozen scientific advisors who help us ensure that what we show is true to nature.
That's the point of it all.
To represent nature the best we can.
Blue Planet II returns to BBC One from Sunday.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Brand's latest book deals with his own addictions to drugs, alcohol, sex and fame Addiction and mental health may not be the kinds of issues you'd normally expect to be addressed at a stand-up comedy gig.
But Russell Brand has never been your conventional comedian - and it's precisely these subjects that he's tackling in his new book and at one of his upcoming London shows.
"Society is collapsing," the comedian tells the BBC, "and people are starting to recognise that the reason they feel like they're mentally ill is that they're living in a system that's not designed to suit the human spirit.
"People are realising 'Hold on a minute, is it natural to work 12 hours a day?
Is it natural that I live in an environment that is designed for human beings from one perspective but not from a holistic perspective?'
Breathing dirty air, eating dirty food, thinking dirty thoughts.
So really what this is, is a time of transition.
"Yes, the conversation is changing because the communication is becoming so much more expedient, but what's really changing is people are starting to notice that the system is not working for them."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The comedian says he prefers theatres to large arenas when it comes to performing comedy The 42-year-old's latest book - Recovery: Freedom From Our Addictions - is released this month, and sees him discussing his own addictions, namely drugs, alcohol, sex and fame.
But, he says, the book isn't just for people who have had chemical addictions, and argues that pretty much all of us have some kind of vice.
"Everyone's living their lives on addictions really," he says.
"Everyone is living their life thinking they've got the answer to their own little problem.
If there's something they get, something they do, they're going to feel a little bit better.
"Addicts are just a more pronounced version, and end up usually with a drug issue, but look at what people can do to themselves with food.
"People can destroy their lives with food, and so addiction really, we're all on the spectrum, we're all on the scale, it just depends how severe we are, and I think that unless you're happy in your life, there's room for a program.
He continues: "Unless you're like 'I'm really happy with my job, my diet, my relationship, my body', if that's how you feel, that's fine.
You deserve to feel like that, people should feel like that.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brand has turned to activism more recently and attended an austerity march in London in 2015 "I'm not talking about stupid simple pleasures like eating an ice lolly, that's only very temporary, we're looking at peak and contentedness which we can find our way to, if we're willing to change the way we think."
Brand clearly isn't going to be short of material when he discusses the topic at a special gig at the Hammersmith Apollo on 1 November.
In addition to his usual stand-up show, he's going to turn up early to do some readings from Recovery.
"It's the only time I'm ever going to do it," he explains.
"So if people want to come at 6.30, I'll read from the book, and then do the show, Rebirth."
It's interesting that Brand is playing somewhat smaller venues than the arenas we've seen other A-list comics perform at in recent years.
Image caption Michael McIntyre and Chris Rock have both toured arenas in recent years The recent generation of "rock star comedians" like Michael McIntyre, Chris Rock and Peter Kay are more likely to sell out the O2 than play an impromptu gig at the Comedy Store, but Brand says he prefers the intimacy of slightly smaller venues.
"People that have played both arenas and theatres, most people prefer theatres, and I'd say the same," he says.
"It's a great privilege to perform in front of 20,000 people at once like at the O2, it's lovely, but there's all sorts of reasons for not doing it... but I love doing stand-up comedy, so I'm happy to do two nights in Brixton and two nights in Hammersmith rather than one night at the O2, and it is a better experience for the audience and for the performer."
Speaking about his own live dates, Russell adds: "The stand-up is full of audience interaction.
The thing that excites me most is what people create when they come together in groups."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Brand has become increasingly vocal as an activist and campaigner in recent years Despite his recent activism, which has included charity work, austerity protests and endorsing Jeremy Corbyn, it's unlikely that Russell will be entering the world of politics anytime soon.
"If you think the political process doesn't work, why would you think, I'm going to get involved with it?"
he asks.
"If you swap the word 'political process' for 'car', you wouldn't think 'I'm going to get in that car and try and drive it in a different direction.
If you think people should be riding horses, start riding a horse.
"So just do what you think is the correct thing to do.
If you think your school should be run differently, start running your school differently, and then when you find obstacles to that, confront the obstacles, but never alone, always in groups.
"The thing I've learned from recent conversations from people who are experts, like Prof David Harvey, is to start establishing systems you believe in, and operate within them.
So the work I'm doing already is the work that I think should be done.
"So I think if people start communicating honestly and openly, they'll realise, 'Everyone is more similar to me than I imagined.'"
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video The first ever official exhibition about Prince has been set up in London.
Pieces of iconic costumes and props is on show at London's 02 arena.
Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, told the BBC what his favourite colour was... and it's not purple.
Video Rosie Redvers-Jones looks perfectly friendly until you ask her to be scary.
The actor has a masters degree in making performance in which she specialised in "scare acting".
She has devised a spooky method using six body moves which she is teaching to actors performing in the event Scarefest in Tatenhill, Staffordshire.
"Variety is key," she said.
"Everyone is scared of all sorts of different things."
Video journalist: Catherine Mackie
Video The rising popularity of spoken word poetry is giving a voice to artists like Dylema.
She tells the BBC's Izin Akhabau that it's "so amazing" to have platforms to be on stage and say her truth.
Video One of the first rock 'n' roll stars, Antoine 'Fats' Domino Jr, has died at the age of 89.
We take a look at some of the most interesting and surprising points about his life.
'Fake' couple marry for real 13 years on A couple who got married in a fake wedding for a video to be used in schools have tied the knot for real 13 years later.
Hanks: 'It's all got to change' after Weinstein Tom Hanks talks to the BBC about the Harvey Weinstein scandal, saying there will now be a "sea change" in Hollywood.
Image copyright PA Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn is going to swap the despatch box for Gogglebox when he appears in a celebrity special.
Mr Corbyn will feature in the hit Channel 4 TV programme next week to help raise money for Stand up to Cancer.
He is expected to share a sofa with a mystery celebrity to chew over a selection of TV programmes.
It is not yet known which shows will be dissected by the Labour leader, who is not expected to be filmed at home.
However, he has previously expressed a fondness for EastEnders - and also revealed he watched Casualty on the eve of this year's Labour Party conference in Brighton.
The show is being filmed this weekend.
A Labour source added: "He's really looking forward to it - it's a great programme for a great cause."
Love Island star Jamie Jewitt says he feels guilty that he posts photos on Instagram that "aren't real".
The model says young people can get disheartened by seeing images on the social media site and he wants to show "it's just a job".
"The images are not the real me and they very rarely portray the real person," he said.
He's now writing a book and giving a talk about the effect of social media on self-esteem.
In May, Instagram was revealed to be the worst social media platform when it comes to its impact on young people's mental health.
In response, Instagram said keeping the platform a safe and supportive place for young people was a top priority.
"Young girls and boys that I know are quite addicted to social media and get disheartened by seeing these images that are just not real," says Jamie.
"Coming from a modelling background, I thought I was part of the problem.
I'm trying to make people realise that it's just a job."
Jamie signed up to Instagram as part of a work contract for the reality TV show Taking New York in 2014.
He now posts regularly to his 819,000 followers - a number which ballooned following his appearance on Love Island this summer.
He says he is told by his modelling agency he has to post his photos online and will continue to do so while it's a part of his career.
"I know I'll be called a hypocrite by certain people," Jamie admits.
"That comes part and parcel with modelling but if I can't say what I've done candidly, and what people should focus on... then I don't know who can.
"I feel a bit guilty for being a part of it and what I'm made to post.
It's important to make the audience aware of what exactly they're looking at."
Jamie is giving a TEDx talk about the modern day influence of the digital world on Saturday.
He says the influence of social media means that people are now able to judge themselves against billions of other people in the world.
"I don't think we're quite built to have that much competition in front of our eyes, being a competitive species.
"Young people see it, get confused by it and have trouble feeling good about themselves.
"A lot of these images are falsified, they're not real versions of people's lives - so it's about trying to call out the things that are false."
Jamie reveals that he has wanted to quit modelling a couple of times, but was persuaded to keep going by his parents.
Jamie says he was reluctant to sign up to Instagram initially and ultimately it cost him work.
"My career started to go down the pan because I didn't have a following.
Even when my work was disappearing, I still refused to get it."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image caption Dolly Parton is known as much for her business acumen as her song-writing skills Even when she's talking about cold, hard cash, Dolly Parton manages to seem down to earth.
She's promoting her new children's album "I Believe in You" and is in top, self-deprecating form, talking to the BBC.
"It's hard for me to spend money on tonnes of stuff because I'm going to look the same, no matter what I wear.
If I wear diamonds I'm still going to look like a rhinestone," she tells me.
Still, if Dolly was inclined to buy diamonds, she could afford them.
She's known as much for her business acumen as her song-writing skills.
At the start of her career she took lessons from her dad, she says: "Even though he wasn't an educated man, he wasn't able to read and write, daddy had a great sense of business.
Image caption Dolly Parton at Glastonbury - in the past year she's earned some $37m "He said, 'Don't let other people take advantage of you, keep your mind on your business.'
So when I got into the music business I thought of it as a business."
Early on she launched her own publishing company and hung on to the rights to her songs, and she says that other artists should do the same.
"As soon as you start making money, you should invest and get into other businesses that you can fall back on if you don't make it big, or if you make it big and you fall on hard times."
That attitude has served her well over the years and continues to do so, according to Forbes magazine's Celebrity 100 list.
It claims Dolly earned $37m (28m) in the year to June 2017, with most of this coming from her Pure and Simple concert tour and income from her Dollywood theme park in Tennessee.
Image copyright Jason Davis Image caption Dolly visits Vanderbilt children's hospital in Tennessee Brian Warner, founder of website CelebrityNetworth.com, estimates her total fortune to be $500m (379m) but says this is conservative.
"We think that Dollywood alone is worth around $200m; $100m for the land itself and $100m for the brand - you could class it as an intangible asset.
"On top of that she makes a lot of money from touring and has had a 50-year career in which she's sold millions of records and has also written songs for other artists."
Mr Warner says "I will always love you", a hit Dolly wrote and recorded in 1973, has made her more than $20m in total.
He explains that although individual music contracts may vary, "as the writer of a song you might be keeping 50% of the revenue or more and as a writer and performer you could be getting 80%".
Image copyright Wes Ramey for Dollywood Image caption The Barnstormer ride at Dollywood Dolly's own version of "I Will Always Love You" was a big commercial success, topping the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart twice, in 1974 and 1982.
Whitney Houston made the song a hit all over again when she recorded a version for the 1992 film The Bodyguard.
It was number one for 10 weeks in the UK charts and for 14 weeks in the US.
The song had another resurgence in 2012 after Ms Houston's death.
More The Boss features, which every week profile a different business leader from around the world: The proceeds from Dolly's latest album won't be adding to her fortune, though; instead they'll be going to the Imagination Library.
Set up in 1995 it aims to improve child literacy by distributing free books to children in the US, Canada, the UK and Australia.
Image copyright Keystone Image caption Dolly in London in 1977 Dolly says her own impoverished childhood in Tennessee inspired the library and has shaped her attitude to money in general.
"Being brought up poor means I don't take things for granted, and no matter how much money I make, I'll always count my blessings quicker and more often than I count my money.
She has "always realised the value of a dollar", too.
"Even now if I go in a store it's hard for me to pay a huge amount of money for one item.
I say 'good Lord', what could mummy and daddy have done with that!"
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dolly's Imagination Library scheme provides books for children At 71 years old, Dolly's career has spanned more than five decades and following her Glastonbury performance in 2014 she's reached a whole new audience.
So what's the secret of her longevity?
"I think a lot of people can relate to me, because of my upbringing and because I'm from a big family.
I think people see me as an aunt, an older sister or a cousin.
I've been around so long I'm part of their family."
Dolly will be hoping that this loyal fan base will support ambitious plans to expand her empire.
The DreamMore hotel at Dollywood, opened in 2015, is "doing well" and she is thinking of franchising it.
She'd also like to do more kids projects and launch a line of wigs, cosmetics and clothes.
"I've still got a lot to do...
I'm going to be an old lady before I get it done but at least I'm going to be working till I fall over dead!"
Dolly Parton is a force of nature and a tremendously successful one at that; it's hard to imagine her ever stopping.
Image copyright Miselo Kunda Image caption Chanje Kunda wants to celebrate "female sensuality and eroticism" Poetry, pole dancing and particle physics don't often meet.
But they do in a new theatre show by a performer who wants to reclaim the way the female body is portrayed.
Poet, playwright and performance artist Chanje Kunda took lessons in several forms of dance to prepare for her latest one-woman show Superposition - ballet dancing, contemporary dancing, pole dancing and lap dancing.
The latter two are normally performed in certain clubs for certain men, but Kunda is reinventing them for her own positive purpose.
"I wanted to explore female sensuality and eroticism because female sensuality within the media has been commodified and cheapened and exploited, and I wanted to try and find new ways as a feminist to be able to celebrate that," she says.
It was her movement director who suggested she have pole dancing lessons.
Image copyright Miselo Kunda Image caption Kunda compares particle physics with the workings of a nightclub "It's not for people who want to become strippers - it's about how to be confident with your body, with your own sensuality, and also it's about fitness and strength and doing the things that make you feel fabulous regardless of your size," she says.
"It's about being comfortable in your skin and being able to celebrate your sensuality."
In one section of the show called The Lonely Chair, Kunda "uses the movement vocabulary of erotic dance to express feelings of loneliness and sadness".
With a chair.
She combines movement and dance with her linguistically luscious poetry, which riffs on the big questions of life and the universe, such as "what are the real laws of attraction?"
Kunda explains: "I decided to research the laws of attraction by interviewing particle physicists, a professor of philosophy and also attend a lap dancing course, because they might have a different take on laws of attraction.
"I found that research absolutely fascinating, very intellectually stimulating and very inspiring."
'Body and intellect' So, in one part of the show, she explains attraction by drawing parallels between the workings of particles and the workings of nightclubs - while pole dancing.
She gives an example of one of her lines: "If an atom was a nightclub, the nucleus would be dancing in the middle of the dancefloor and the electron would be orbiting the nucleus getting to see its sexiness from all angles.
"So I'm explaining about how atoms and particles work, whilst spinning."
Movement is married with scientific themes throughout the show.
It's a deliberate attempt to "celebrate and elevate your body, your physicality, your beauty" while at the same time "being valued for your intellect and your thoughts", she says.
Image copyright Miselo Kunda Image caption She was one of the BBC Radio 3 The Verb New Voices winners in 2015 The second full theatre show from Kunda, Superposition launches at The Lowry theatre in Salford on Thursday.
The title is making the point that she can't be pigeonholed.
"I am many faceted and many things at the same time and I'm in superposition," she explains.
"You can't locate me here or here.
I'm in superposition in the show and as a human being."
Her last show Amsterdam premiered in 2014 and toured for three years.
She was also one of the winners of BBC Radio 3 The Verb New Voices writing competition in 2015.
As a result, she made a short film for the BBC titled Physics - which was one of the seeds for Superposition.
But her career nearly didn't get off the ground at all.
Kunda was turned down for Arts Council England funding to stage Amsterdam because, she says, she wasn't an established theatre artist at the time.
PPI to the rescue "It just made me more determined because I thought, I'm not going to let people dictate to me what I can do with my life and what I can't do."
She did find the the money, but from an unusual source - a PPI claim.
"I had a director, a choreographer and a sound designer, and I had rehearsal space, but I didn't have any funding," she recalls.
"They only found out I didn't have any funding on the first day of rehearsal.
"Somebody approached me on the street saying, 'You can claim back for PPI'.
I thought, actually, I've had several credit cards over the years, so I filled out all the forms and it was successful.
I was using that to pay the creative team."
Begged, stole and borrowed She raised the rest of the money by starting a gardening company called Titan Trimmers and mowing her neighbours' lawns at evenings and weekends.
Meanwhile, she persuaded her sister to donate her tax rebate and asked friends if they would like to "invest in some art".
"So I begged, stole and borrowed and scrimped and worked my butt off," she says.
"But I paid the choreographer, I paid the director, I paid the sound designer, I paid the rehearsal space, I paid for all the marketing materials, costume, props - I paid for it all."
It's said with the conviction of someone who has a vision - and knows how to make people watch, listen and learn.
Chanje Kunda: Superposition is at The Lowry on 26 & 27 October.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
A group of 100 Cambridge students have called for the university to include more black and ethnic minority writers in its English Literature curriculum, leading to a row over race.
But the university has condemned the backlash and says it supports debate over its reading list.
The literary row started with a letter written in June by the students to the university's English faculty, asking it to "decolonise" its curriculum by including more BME writers.
The letter, mainly signed by white students, stated: "This is not a call for the exclusion of white men from reading lists... it is a call to recentre the lives of other marginalised writers."
One of the students, Lola Olufemi, women's officer for Cambridge University's student union, then explained the position in an article for the university's student newspaper Varsity.
She wrote that that it was "simply not enough" for the university to offer one optional course to read post-colonial BME texts at the end of a three year degree.
Her picture was splashed on the front page of the Daily Telegraph on Wednesday under the headline: "Student forces Cambridge to drop white authors".
The paper then faced criticism for "twisting the facts" and "demonising" Ms Olufemi.
The university has responded by saying it supports "robust academic debate" and that "very early" academic discussions had already been held on this issue.
But for now it said, there "has been no decision to alter the way English is taught at the University of Cambridge".
So what do students studying English Literature at Cambridge read and why?
The course outline advises students they will be studying a full range of "English literature from the Middle Ages to the present day".
Across the three years, it lists four compulsory papers that must be taken by all students: English Literature and its Contexts 1300-1550 Shakespeare Practical Criticism Tragedy There are also more than 20 optional papers - "which change regularly", with lecturers providing suggested reading lists and students making decisions on what books to study based on that guidance.
But some students say all too often they are steered towards white, male writers.
One of the lecturers is Dr Priyamvada Gopal, who teaches postcolonial literature.
She says she has noticed "more assertiveness" from students about what kinds of issues they want to explore.
Because many have not learned about the British Empire while at school, she says, this makes them keen to study books that examine the issues of Britishness or Englishness, and "how that relates to questions of race, immigration and even class".
So what should be on the agenda?
Dr Gopal has five books she suggests are worthy of inclusion: Dr Gopal's top five BME reads Image copyright Getty/BBC Image caption Writers Olaudah Equiano, CLR James, Sam Selvon Recommended reading from Dr Priyamvada Gopal, Reader in Anglophone Literatures and Fellow at Churchill College, Cambridge: The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano by Olaudah Equiano Olaudah Equiano was a black African writer whose experiences as a slave prompted him to become involved in Britain's abolition movement.
His autobiography was first published in 1789 and was immensely popular.
The Lonely Londoners by Sam Selvon The son of an Indian father and a Scottish-Indian mother, Sam Selvon moved to England in 1950 after serving in the Trinidadian navy.
The Lonely Londoners is perhaps his best-known and commercially most successful novel and was his first to address the migrant experience.
The Black Jacobins by CLR James Caribbean intellectual and political activist Cyril Lionel Robert James moved to England from Trinidad in 1932.
Six years later he published his first novel, The Black Jacobins, his seminal work on the Haitian slave revolt.
The Emperor's Babe by Bernardine Evaristo Born in London to an English mother and Nigerian father, Bernardine Evaristo is an award-winning author and current professor of creative writing at Brunel University London.
Published in 2001, The Emperor's Babe is a mash-up of culture and history, set in Roman London.
The Times crowned it the "Book of the Decade".
Feminist Fables by Suniti Namjoshi Indian-born Suniti Namjoshi's first book of fiction, Feminist Fables, was published in 1981.
An important figure in contemporary Indian literature in English, she is known for exploring issues of gender, sexual and cultural identity.
'Entire degree without BME' Image caption Mariam said the discussion "had been happening in non-academic circles for a long time" Mariam Ansar, who helped draft the open letter, said it came as a "result of years of frustration felt as an undergraduate, as a student of colour studying English at Cambridge".
The 22-year-old from Bradford graduated this summer and said: "This discussion had been happening in non-academic circles for a long time."
Fellow graduate Rebecca, 21, who preferred not to give her surname, said: "At the moment a system exists at Cambridge whereby a student could complete an entire literature degree without studying the writings of a person of colour or the context of slavery and colonialism in any depth."
'Disheartening and alienating' Image caption Lizzie said she feels "disheartened" by suggestions there are no black authors to match up to the likes of Chaucer or Milton.
Cambridge student Lizzie Bowes, 19, from Peterborough, criticised those who are "too quick" to fall back on the argument that there are no BME authors of the same calibre as William Shakespeare, Geoffrey Chaucer or John Milton.
"As a BME student myself, being constantly told that BME authors are excluded from the canon and the curriculum simply because they're 'not good enough' is hugely disheartening and alienating," she said.
Miss Bowes said adding to the list of authors would help students "challenge and interrogate the dominant conceptions of Englishness".
Stella Swain, in her second year at Cambridge, pointed to the "disturbing lack" of non-white authors on the course and said it made the English Literature degree appear "archaic".
'Schools whitewash too' Image caption Finley claims most academics "don't seem to take BME writers into consideration" Cambridge student Finley Kidd, 19, from Norwich, who signed the letter, said the problems with the English literature curriculum begins well before university level.
She said: "Britain's history of colonialism, empire, and institutional racism is one such context that has been so fundamental in shaping our literature that we can make no excuses for ignoring it.
"My high school English curriculum was similarly whitewashed.
I have had some incredible lecturers and supervisors during my degree who have encouraged my reading of authors such as Chinua Achebe and Ngugi wa Thiong'o, but the majority of academics I've come across don't seem to take BME writers into consideration.
"The onus should not be on students to reach beyond reading lists - many may not realise they are even allowed [to do so] - but on academics to diversify their reading lists."
Image copyright Wim Wenders Image caption Wim Wenders chose himself as a subject for some of his photos Wim Wenders became a major film-maker when, in the 1970s, German cinema became cool around the world.
His hits included The American Friend and Paris, Texas.
But Wenders was privately experimenting with one of the most straightforward of visual technologies - the Polaroid stills camera.
Thousands of those shots were thrown away - but now a selection of surviving images has gone on display in London.
Wenders says when he started taking Polaroid pictures in the mid-1960s it had nothing to do with art.
Image copyright Getty Image caption Wim Wenders says taking snaps was useful to his film-making and it was fun "It was just part of my life.
I would photograph things to do with movies I was making, or when I travelled.
It was useful and fun - which I think is what Polaroids were for most people."
Instant photography - doing away with a separate and lengthy process of developing film outside the camera - arrived commercially in 1948.
It was the creation of Polaroid's founder Edwin Land.
In the early years the images were black and white.
The big step forward was the arrival of the Polaroid sx-70 camera in the early 1970s.
"It was science fiction and nobody had seen anything like it.
You pointed the camera and took the picture and then it came out - an empty, blank bit of white paper.
"And before your eyes it slowly turned into the image you had shot a few moments before.
It was exhilarating in its colours and brightness.
Image copyright Wim Wenders Image caption New York is given the Wim Wenders treatment "You have to remember that at this time people didn't have even VHS tape - we were in a simpler, analogue world.
So to be able to create and record a visual image almost immediately seemed extraordinary."
Now some 200 of the images are on display in London, under the title Instant Stories.
Some of them show well-known people the director worked with such as the actor Dennis Hopper.
Others are landscapes or pictures of odd corners in places Wenders visited such as New York or Sydney.
There are also close-up images of a TV set showing the 1956 film The Girl Can't Help It, with appearances from Eddie Cochrane and Gene Vincent.
"It's still my favourite rock and roll movie.
And suddenly with a Polaroid you could photograph something you enjoyed and you had it in front of you to hold, almost at once.
At the time it was extraordinary.
Image copyright Wim Wenders "The other great thing is that if friends were in the image you could give it to them - and that's what happened to many of the pictures I took.
"I'd had traditional cameras since I was six or so and I enjoyed using them.
But there was a whole new spontaneity with the Polaroid which I think some people are now starting to rediscover the way they've rediscovered music on vinyl.
"Everyone says, 'oh the kids aren't interested in physical objects any more: they don't want a book or a newspaper or a CD.'
"But the kids will regret it when they're older: if you're 25 you have to realise that the phone which seems so great now will one day be yesterday's technology and lots of the digital images we all have will be hard or even impossible to look at."
Image copyright Wim Wenders Image caption Dennis Hopper invented the selfie in the Wenders movie The American Friend, says the director But doesn't a modern smartphone produce images far more sophisticated than any Polaroid camera did 40 years ago?
Wenders says the basic character of the technology was part of the appeal.
"I think people who look at the images will find a sort of beauty here.
The colours the process produced are great, though the monochrome images are attractive too."
The director points out a particular black and white picture.
"It's the Hoboken Terminal in New York and I was shooting a film 30 years ago there called Lightning Over Water.
These places are mainly gone."
For a long time the pictures just went up on Wenders' refrigerator and then were stored away in cigar boxes.
"But they remain unique: they only existed once and there's no negative and you can't duplicate it.
Forty years later they seem quite precious."
Wenders remembers that at the time a new Polaroid model or a big technical development was the equivalent of an Apple launch today.
"So when the sx-70 came out we were delighted to get hold of it early to use in the film Alice in the Cities (1974)."
The new show in London plays on a loop the scene from The American Friend in which, says Wenders, "Dennis Hopper invents the selfie with a Polaroid camera."
Image copyright Wim Wenders Image caption There was something "sacred" about the instantaneity of the Polaroid, says Wenders There was also a use behind the camera.
"So at this time there's no video playout and you only see your rushes three days later.
The Polaroid camera can be a real help setting up a shot."
But in the 1980s Wenders abandoned Polaroids entirely.
"I was starting to take stills photography more seriously and I started to use large-size cameras".
But he retained one of his old Polaroid cameras and only recently gave it to Patti Smith to replace one she was having problems with.
Wenders thinks digital photography is now so problem-free and so cheap that a lot of the creativity has gone.
"It's so easy for a professional photographer to take hundreds or even thousands of pictures of a particular face or of a scene and of course a few of them will be good and the rest are wiped.
It can be an impersonal, industrial process.
"The Polaroid was instant but it was still connected to the original idea of photography.
There was always something sacred about the act of stealing an image from the world."
Instant Stories: Wim Wenders' Polaroids is at the Photographers' Gallery in London until 11 February 2018.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Everything Everything perform Can't Do at BBC Music Introducing Live 2017 "There's a tide and it's coming in now," sings Jonathan Higgs on Night Of The Long Knives, the latest single from Everything Everything.
The title refers to Hitler's bloody purge of the Nazi party in 1934, drawing a parallel to the rise of the right-wing politics in the last two years.
Only Higgs isn't convinced that fascism will sweep everything in its path.
"They're saying it's a wave but it feels like a dribbling mouth," he sneers in the single, questioning whether the alt-right are a powerful force, or just a bunch of idiots.
"And the answer is both," he says.
"It depends how we react to it.
If everyone [panics and] says, 'Oh God!'
the next thing you know, they're the prime minister.
"But if you go, 'Ha, ha, ha, you're idiots,' well... they'll probably still become prime minister.
But you have to keep your head about it."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Everything Everything play Night Of The Long Knives on Annie Mac's Radio 1 show It's surprising to hear Higgs make a plea for perspective.
After all, this is a man whose last album, Get To Heaven, was a "wretched and anxious" response to Islamic State militants, beheadings, mass shootings and political corruption.
"I was in a dark place," he told the BBC on its release.
"I was essentially trying to inhabit the minds of the [extremists] and that's a really horrible thing to face."
Everything Everything's new album dials back on the paranoia and dread - partly because Higgs thinks the world has caught up with him.
"I'm not less in that headspace, but I think everyone else is in it more," he says.
"But the album's a bit more abstract, a bit more personal.
Away from politics and all that stuff, it's about the human relationships we all have."
The album is called A Fever Dream, a reference to the "surreal, nightmarish things happening, day after day" - especially the absurdity of modern politics.
It's there in Big Game, a pomposity-pricking parable about Donald Trump ("Even little children see through you"), and it's there in Run the Numbers, a song that explores Michael Gove's comment that "people in this country have had enough of experts".
"Is it the first song to be inspired by Michael Gove?
Yes, and it should be the only one.
Let's leave it at that."
Image copyright Sony Music Image caption A Fever Dream reached number five when it was released in August - the band's best chart position to date Higgs is smart enough to be aware that he comes from a position of privilege, and his liberal views are out of step with the prevailing political climate.
There's a song on the album called Ivory Tower, where people threaten to "come and crush me in the Waitrose aisle".
On the title track, he sings: "I hate the neighbours, they hate me too / The fear and the fury make me feel good."
"It's admitting that I sort of enjoy arguing," he explains.
"I think we all do on some level.
It's certainly popular."
"With anonymity you can go much further than you ever could in real life," Higgs agrees.
"People become very extreme very quickly.
It feels good to give yourself over to that emotion."
This leads to a discussion of the fake news stories that spread in the wake of this month's mass shooting in Las Vegas.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Everything Everything are named after the first two words on Radiohead's Kid A album "I just can't begin to find a way into that mindset," says Higgs.
"But the whole idea about what's true has been thrown up in the air: Who do we trust?
Why do we trust our journalists?
Is it just because we're used to it?"
"There are codes of practices in place, right?"
interjects his bandmate, Jeremy Pritchard.
"But does the Daily Mail care?
Does Fox News care?
I don't think so."
Higgs says keeping up with the news "feels like a bad dream - sometimes it's scary and frightening and sometimes it's electrifying and exciting".
He adds: "That's why there's a reference to being asleep or dreaming or waking up in every single song.
There's a feeling of 'is it real, or is it not?'"
If this all sounds pretty heavy, it's worth noting that Everything Everything have always dressed up their angst in a cathartic explosion of melodic pop.
That's how they sneak songs like Cough Cough (about greed for oil), My Kz Ur Bf (airstrikes) and Night Of The Long Knives onto daytime radio.
Image copyright Sony Music Image caption "Musically, A Fever Dream's a bit more electronic but also heavier with guitars and riffs," says Pritchard (second left) In concert, this results in fans bellowing out the lyrics to No Reptiles - a song about feeling passive and useless and alienated from society.
There's something bizarre, I observe, about hearing 3,000 people chanting: "It's alright to feel like a fat child in a pushchair."
"You're telling me," laughs Higgs.
"We're always surprised by what people's favourites are," adds Pritchard.
"And we're still towards the beginning of that process on this album.
"We've written them, we've recorded them and now we're seeing what works in the live arena - where the energy is, how to play it."
But the "fat child in a pushchair" remains the bassist's favourite part of the set, every night.
"I don't have to play anything at that point in the song," he says, "So I always take my earphones out and listen to the crowd.
It's incredible."
A Fever Dream is out now.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright PA Image caption Adrienne Warren will play Tina Turner in the musical, which opens in April A new musical based on the life of Tina Turner is set to open in the West End in 2018 - and the singer even came out of retirement (somewhat reluctantly) to work on it.
"Retirement is wonderful," Turner says as she launches Tina: The Musical in London.
"You sleep long, do what you want, decorate the house two or three times.
Just easy things that you dreamt about when you were working and that's all you did."
She says her lifestyle when she was famous involved spending most of her time on tour buses, planes and cars, adding: "That was work and that's sometimes what you had to do.
"But you had a dream not to have to do any of it."
'Learning and experiencing' Turner, whose hits include The Best and What's Love Got To Do With It, was initially reluctant to sign up for working on the show, which opens at London's Aldwych Theatre in April.
"I didn't want to because I didn't really understand it or agree with it, whatever there is - the magic between stage and music is totally different," she says.
"So I'm learning and experiencing what musicals are about."
The producers of Tina had to fly out to Switzerland, where Turner now lives, to convince her to give the project her blessing.
Image copyright CRAIG SUGDEN Image caption The pair performed together at the launch of the musical in London this week Turner was eventually won over, and now comments: "This took me out of retirement...
I'm very excited to be a part of it."
But the big question of course, was who was going to play Tina in the show.
This week, the theatre world got its answer: Adrienne Warren.
"She can sing," Turner says.
"She will do the dancing.
Maybe she hasn't done the type of dancing that me and my girls would do, but she can do that.
She's pretty.
And we're giving it a try."
'Motivation and inspiration' Giving audiences a flavour of what they can expect, Warren performed three songs at the launch, including two duets with Turner, proving in the process that she definitely has the voice to pull this role off.
Speaking after the performance, the Virginia-born actress said: "She's a motivation, inspiration to all women, and especially women of colour.
"It's the first time I ever realised that I could grow up in the South and have dreams that would take me all over the world.
I wouldn't have become a performer if it wasn't for Tina Turner."
Image caption Adrienne Warren said audiences will find the musical "inspirational" She adds: "When you haven an opportunity like this, I call it a responsibility.
Because I'm a Tina Turner fan first, so that's a responsibility and I don't take that lightly."
Details of the plot and songs included in the show haven't been announced yet, but producers say it will be a fairly comprehensive telling of Turner's life story - not shying away from issues such as the domestic abuse she suffered at the hands of her husband Ike.
Describing the show's content, Adrienne said: "Dark?
No.
Inspirational?
Yes.
It is the truth of her story.
Sometimes the best things in life come out of the worst things in life, so that's what's so appealing about this show.
"There are challenges, the stamina that is required for this show was something like I've never seen before, and actually having Tina as my coach as I do this is something quite interesting as well, so I love every second of it.
"It shows all of us that no matter what obstacle comes your way, whether it's your family not supporting you, whether it's bullying, domestic violence, don't ever let that stop you achieving your dreams."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video The voice of Strictly Come Dancing singer Tommy Blaize is known to millions of television viewers while he remains largely off camera.
But the singer has come front and centre for the release of his debut solo album.
Away from Strictly, Tommy played at Rod Stewart's wedding and was invited on a world tour by Robbie Williams.
On his new record, he performs classic soul songs by the likes of Sam Cooke and Smokey Robinson.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 17 years after His Dark Materials, Philip Pullman reads from its new "equel" Philip Pullman's return to the world he created more than 20 years ago for His Dark Materials has been greeted with eager delight by most critics.
The author's new book, La Belle Sauvage, arrives 17 years after the His Dark Materials trilogy ended.
It is worth the wait, according to the Washington Post, while the Daily Telegraph gave it a five-star review.
The New York Times praised a "stunning achievement" but had some reservations, saying the novel "sometimes lags".
La Belle Sauvage is set a decade before Northern Lights (titled Golden Compass in the US), the first book in the His Dark Materials trilogy, which was published in 1995.
The trilogy's heroine, Lyra, is a baby in the new book - she is cared for by nuns before being protected by Malcolm, 11, who lives at a nearby pub.
Image copyright Getty Images In Pullman's alternate reality, Malcolm is drawn into an underground resistance movement trying to fight a fascist religious organisation that rules over an autocratic state.
The book takes its title from the name of the pub's canoe - which Malcolm and Lyra use to escape a flood, chased by a terrifying villain, Bonneville.
La Belle Sauvage is the first instalment in a new trilogy, The Book of Dust.
Pullman has said the next two instalments will be set after His Dark Materials.
The Washington Post's Elizabeth Hand said the past 17 years disappeared "in a blink as one reads the enthralling, enchanting first instalment".
"The first half of The Book of Dust reads like a thriller," she wrote.
"The story becomes darker, deeper and even more engrossing when a cataclysmic flood overtakes southern England."
Bonneville was "one of the most frightening villains in contemporary literature", and the new book felt "more earthbound - in the best way - than the earlier trilogy".
Hand added: "Too few things in our own world are worth a 17-year-wait: The Book of Dust is one of them."
Slate's Katy Waldman was even more enthusiastic, predicting people would love the book "with the same helpless vehemence that stole over them when The Golden Compass came out in the mid-90s, or even when they first met their partners or held their newborn children".
She wrote: "I absorbed La Belle Sauvage in intense, immoderate bouts of pleasure, horror, pain, and love.
"Part of this heightened experience relates to the electric emotional content that Pullman so deftly handles; part of it is his sure command of centuries of resonant English poetry and philosophy."
'Dark and mysterious' The Telegraph's Sam Leith found a "slight question mark over who the book is for" because "the pretty childish and the very adult share space in its pages".
Leith added: "In the foreground is a straightforward adventure story - even a slightly trad one: Five Get Into Trouble In A Theocracy sort of thing, or perhaps Dust William - of great pace and interest.
"Yet its Swallows and Amazons qualities, as it goes on, rub against something altogether darker and more mysterious."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Amber Spyglass was named Whitbread Book of the Year in 2002 In The New York Times, Sarah Lyall said her view the new book did not quite live up to the original trilogy may have been coloured by her "impossibly high expectations".
And she hoped Pullman was "biding his time, laying down the groundwork for what is yet to come".
She wrote: "It's a stunning achievement, the universe Pullman has created and continues to build on.
All that remains is to sit tight and wait for the next instalment."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Liam Gallagher (banana not pictured) Rock and roll is alive, and it lives in Liam Gallagher's greengrocers.
The star was in ebullient form at Wednesday's Q Awards, batting away questions about the lack of new guitar bands with typically comic bravado.
"I know people talk about the death of rock 'n' roll, but for me it never went away," he told the BBC.
"I live and breathe it, whether I'm making a record or buying bananas.
Because I buy bananas in a rock 'n' roll way, you know what I mean?"
Gallagher did not explain how a rock star purchases a banana, but presumably he asks for a Roll With It.
The star, whose debut solo album As You Were went to number one last week, went on to win two trophies: Best live act and the Q icon award.
But he said he was "a bit disappointed" at losing the best single prize to Kasabian's You're In Love With A Psycho.
Here are some of the other things we learned at the ceremony.
1) Ed Sheeran is in constant pain Ed Sheeran received his prize - best act in the world today - with one arm in a sling (well...Burberry scarf) and the other in a cast after a cycling accident over the weekend.
The star told Radio 1 he had fractured his right wrist and left elbow, as well as breaking a rib.
"It's a pretty dull constant pain," he said, "very similar to having a tattoo."
Q Awards host Christian O'Connell joked that Sheeran had been knocked off his bike by someone "who saw him on Game of Thrones".
2) Paloma Faith sacked a sexist drummer Image copyright PA Paloma Faith's fourth album, The Architect, is due out next month, so she's spent this week auditioning musicians to play the new songs live.
It didn't go completely to plan.
"Yesterday, I was auditioning drummers," she said.
"One of them looked up during a song and said to my bass player, who's a woman, 'Wow!
I thought you were one of the backing singers.'
"And I was like, 'You didn't get the job!'"
3) Liam Gallagher has a sore bum Image copyright Getty Images Asked how he celebrated his number one album on Friday, the star replied, "I didn't".
"This is the first time I've been out of the house since," he said, offering a most curious explanation.
"I just got back from LA and I was crowd-surfing there and [the fans] were pinching me.
"I don't recommend it to anyone.
My bum's been sore, so I've just been lying on my bed flat."
4) Skepta has a song that's too "dangerous" to release Image copyright PA Grime star Skepta has been in the studio with punk duo Slaves - but he's not sure the public are ready for the results.
"That song, it's like an anarchist's anthem," he told 6 Music's Abbie McCarthy.
"We haven't dropped it because... it's a very dangerous song.
The world's not ready yet."
The Mercury Prize-winner said the collaboration was fuelled by fury.
"They were at a point and I was at a point where we wanted to just scream something to the world.
And we definitely screamed it.
It's a mad song."
5) George Ezra is not a fan of dogs Image copyright Columbia Records George Ezra's latest video, Don't Matter Now, sees the singer taking a road trip with a cute, fluffy dog.
But it turns out their bonhomie was all a terrible lie.
"It's not my dog, I can't stand dogs," said the singer.
"I've had bad experiences with dogs."
In fact, his co-star turned out to be something of a diva, with its "own agent" and entourage.
"It got far more attention than I did on set," laughed Ezra.
"Now, I'm not a man who needs a lot of attention but a line was crossed by that there dog!"
6) Wiley says there's been no new music since grime Image copyright PA Wiley picked up the innovation in sound award, recognising the impact he's had on UK music since 2002 - when he set the blueprint for grime with his instrumental track, Eskimo.
He said the award was "the one where you do your time", persevering through the ups and downs of the music industry until "they look, they recognise".
But despite the recent resurgence in grime, the star said the UK desperately needed new musical innovators.
"I haven't heard a new sound in England for ages," he said.
"We're looking for it: It could be a band, it could be kid with a guitar and a piano.
"I don't know what it will be, but we're looking for it."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jennifer Lawrence spoke out about her early career at the Elle Women in Hollywood Celebration Many were shocked when Jennifer Lawrence revealed she was forced to stand in a "nude line-up" as part of a film casting.
She described the experience as "degrading and humiliating".
The actress spoke in light of recent allegations against film producer Harvey Weinstein, who has been accused of rape, sexual assault and harassment.
He has "unequivocally denied" the claims against him and said all sexual relationships he had were consensual.
Image copyright Brendan McNamara Image caption Casting director Brendan McNamara said a nude casting call is "not a normal process" But Lawrence's revelations raise questions about whether her casting experience is commonplace in Hollywood and the wider film industry.
Brendan McNamara, who worked as a casting assistant on The Bourne Supremacy, described Lawrence's ordeal as "an awful situation", which "isn't representative of the industry as a whole".
He now has his own casting company and makes British independent films, and said his job is to "make actors feel as comfortable as possible to get the best performance for our directors and producers".
"We want to put them in a position where they can give us their best and not feel awkward," he told BBC News.
'Horrible and cruel' "I've never had to do anything that might be risque, but if I did, we would contact their agent beforehand to make the actor fully aware and make sure they are comfortable with what we are doing.
When asked about standing naked in a line-up with other women at a casting and being told to lose weight by a casting director, McNamara added: "I don't think that's a normal process at all".
"It just seems horrible and cruel.
"It's not a casting director's job to say how someone looks or tell them to lose weight, it's our job to find someone who's right for the role."
Image copyright Brendan McNamara Image caption McNamara's films include Treacle Jr which starred Tom Fisher and Game of Thrones' Aiden Gillen He added that on his low-budget indie British films he now works on, "we try to treat everyone with the upmost respect and all these stories coming out are awful".
"I'm sure the Weinstein stories are not isolated, these people are in positions of power where they take advantage of those that are vulnerable."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images New Young Vic artistic director Kwame Kwei-Armah says he doesn't yet know what kind of plays he will stage there - but promises they will be "funky".
He says he is currently listening to what people want from the London venue.
But he says he won't be directing any plays there himself while in the role.
That means his latest play, Henrik Ibsen's The Lady from the Sea at the Donmar Warehouse, is the last he'll direct for the time being.
Image copyright Manueal Harlan Image caption Nikki Amuka-Bird plays the central character of Ellida who has a yearning for the sea "I'm in the middle of my listening exercise.
If there is anything to pull out of it, it's that I love new plays and I love classics.
I love adaptations of classics, I love Ibsen and I love Chekhov and I love Shakespeare and I love August Wilson.
"So actually I'm just going to try and find ways of being funky with new plays and the classics."
And as for being funky, he has a unique way of warming up the cast before they get to grips with the script.
They have a 20-minute dance party before rehearsals begin, the cast and crew taking it in turns to provide the playlist.
He says it's a way to loosen everyone up before the serious work begins.
"It's part of my process in everything I do.
A company that dances together stays together.
It's therapeutic for me."
He says he wants the cast to shake off the morning and "vibrate on the frequency of beautiful music".
Image copyright Manuel Harlan Image caption Ellie Bamber plays the role of Hilde Not that the work is all serious though - he loves jokes and even manages to get several peppered into Ibsen's work.
"When an audience laughs, it breathes differently.
And the play breathes differently, we breathe differently - we feel included."
He said he told the cast "let's go for the gag" - pointing out that Ibsen's observations were so acute they were funny.
The adaptation of the Norwegian writer's 1889 play sees the action moved to a 1950s Caribbean, where the stifling heat adds to the feelings of being trapped as relationships untangle and are knotted together again in Elinor Cook's adaptation.
The story focuses on Ellida and her yearning for the sea - while the arrival of an old friend, (her step-daughter's former tutor) and a mysterious stranger who has haunted her dreams threatens to throw her domestic life into disarray.
Image copyright Manuel Harlan Image caption Finbar Lynch plays Dr Wangel alongside Nikki Amuka-Bird Kwei-Armah says he wanted to encapsulate the themes of freedom and the sea in the play, which he first read 20 years ago.
"But I'm a bit of a mummy's boy and I really love the ideas in the piece about female emancipation - about the sense of marriage and why we marry, how we marry - and about the sea.
"I have a complex relationship with the sea.
The sea makes me cry and makes me happy.
"And then I saw that in Ellida and it really touched me.
"When I thought about the sea, I thought about my personal relationship with the sea in the Caribbean and in West Africa.
I toyed for a bit with doing it in West Africa, and then I thought - I want to do it in the Caribbean."
He said Ibsen was investigating cold weather and the sea, and thought to himself, "let's look at what heat does to it and a sense of how it makes you feel enclosed and wanting to fight and get away from it, and rip your clothes off".
Image copyright Manuel Harlan Image caption Helena Wilson plays Bolette Cook describes the piece as "a collision of two worlds - this spiritual, otherworldly world and this glorious, funny, wry, gender political comedy".
The story of Ellida and the stranger is the "subject of every pop song - that lover you can't forget who comes back from the past", she says.
Nikki Amuka-Bird, who plays Ellida, adds: "The other side is Stand By Your Man, her husband."
She says of the play: "It feels like there's a lightness there.
It's summer and even though there are tragic moments, it's also a play about love."
'Feeling good' Amuka-Bird and Cook say it was a "lot of fun" working with Kwei-Armah and that he creates a "lovely" atmosphere in the rehearsal room.
Amuka-Bird says: "Kwame is very much about people feeling good about themselves, and feeling brave."
She adds: "Kwame has this knack of making every day really enjoyable and I think that's something we can definitely expect, that he's going to bring to the Young Vic that energy - and the dance parties!"
Kwei-Armah speaks to press before heading into the after party and admits he has not heard any audience reaction ("I'm not very good with audiences at the end of first nights"), preferring to disappear to his apartment to speak to family in America after the cast take their bow.
He says he simply loves the fact that he feels "blessed".
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Columbia Image caption Manic Street Preachers (L-R): Sean Moore, Nicky Wire, James Dean Bradfield Manic Street Preachers won the Inspiration award at Wednesday's Q Awards, 25 years after releasing their debut album, Generation Terrorists.
Michael Sheen presented the award, paraphrasing the lyrics to Design For Life, saying: "Libraries gave us power and this band gave us power!"
But speaking to the BBC, bassist Nicky Wire said he "didn't know" whether the band would ever release another album.
"I'm in a funny place," he said.
"I've kind of given up listening to music."
"There's lots of good music out there - St Vincent is great, Wolf Alice I really like - but I just listen to Radio 4."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Manic Street Preachers were recognised for albums including Everything Must Go, The Holy Bible and This Is My Truth Tell Me Yours Wire, who is the Manics' chief lyricist, said the band might have "overdone it" with their last two albums, Rewind The Film and Futurology.
"It sapped us of our creative juices," he said, noting that it had been more than three years since Futurology - the longest gap the band ever had between releases.
"It's really frightening actually because I just don't know [if we'll have another record]," he said.
"It's hard to see one coming out at the moment."
The Welsh band went on to play a storming, 75-minute greatest hits set at the Camden Roundhouse.
Asked if the gig would provide some inspiration, Wire replied: "It might take more than that."
Earlier this year, frontman James Dean Bradfield told the NME there there had been little progress on new material since the band lost their recording studio in 2016.
However, he said he wanted to "kick against" the current music scene and "rock again".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The band opened their Q Awards set with Motorcycle Emptiness Other bands at the Q Awards said they doubted the Manics would call it a day.
"I think he's just being modest," said Faris Badwan of The Horrors.
"I think there's plenty of stuff around to inspire Nicky Wire.
They're not really the kind of guys who stop making music."
"That's disappointing to me," added Biffy Clyro's Simon Neil, "but I can understand it".
"You feel there's a real drought at certain points.
You think maybe you've written your best song.
"[But] I don't see Nicky actually being able to give up.
He might not have written a song for a while, but now that he's said that, he's probably going to write a hundred."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Simon Neil and Ellie Rowsell said they thought the Manics would return to the studio eventually Ellie Rowsell, lead singer of Wolf Alice, said that Wire's decision to stop listening to music could be a sensible one.
"Some of my biggest inspirations don't come from music so that doesn't strike me as too much of a problem," she said.
"Radio 4 is banging."
Wire himself offered some hope, saying he often swore off music before beginning a new album.
"Is it something I do to clear the palate?
It is, sometimes.
Otherwise I end up nicking too much," he said.
"So we might have a surge over the next few weeks and chuck something out.
You never know."
Simon Neil added that the end of the Manic Street Preachers would be "a huge loss, unless Nicky becomes the head of Plaid Cymru, which I can see happening.
"He's incredibly eloquent when he speaks about politics."
The full list of Q Awards winners is as follows: Best act in the world today - Ed Sheeran Best breakthrough act - Rag 'N' Bone Man Best live act - Liam Gallagher Best album - Gorillaz: Humanz Best solo artist - Stormzy Best Track - Kasabian: You're In Love With A Psycho Best Film - Bunch Of Kunst (Sleaford Mods) Q Innovation In Sound - Wiley Q Gibson Les Paul Award - Kelley Deal Q Maverick - Viv Albertine Q Inspiration Award - Manic Street Preachers Q Icon - Liam Gallagher Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
