A 10-year-old girl with cerebral palsy, who has lived in the U.S. since she was 3 months old, is facing deportation to Mexico after being discharged from a Corpus Christi, Texas, childrens hospital where she recently underwent gallbladder surgery.
Rosamaria Hernandez, who is undocumented, was transported to Driscoll Childrens Hospital on Tuesday and followed by Customs and Border Protection agents from a nearby immigration checkpoint, the Caller-Times reported.
The girl's adult cousin, who is a U.S. citizen, escorted her to the hospital, the paper reported.
A border patrol spokesman told the New York Daily News that the girl and her cousin approached the primary inspection lane at a border checkpoint east of Laredo, Texas.
Due to her medical condition, Border patrol agents escorted her and her cousin to the hospital.
The New York Times reported that the agents waited outside her hospital room until she was released.
Their orders are to process her, Leticia Gonzalez, her San Antonio-based associate, told the paper.
At this point, our argument to (immigration agents) is.
'There is a doctors directive, why arent you following it?'
The agency told the newspaper in a statement that the girl's situation does not make her exempt from enforcement of the law.
The statement reportedly said, Per the immigration laws of the United States, once medically cleared she will be processed accordingly.
The Mexican Consulate has been advised of the situation by Laredo Sector Border Patrol.
The Times reported that family members said agents took the girl to a facility in San Antonio, 150 miles away from her home.
The Times reported it was rare, if not unheard-of, for a child already living in the United States to be arrested particularly one with a serious medical condition.
U.S. Rep. Joaquin Castro, D-Texas, said in a tweet that a sick 10-year-old girl should not be a @dhsgov priority.
The Government Accountability Office has accepted a request by a group of U.S. senators to investigate the activities of President Donald Trump's commission on voter fraud.
Democratic Sens.
Michael Bennet of Colorado, Cory Booker of New Jersey and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota wrote the watchdog agency last week to request the probe, citing a lack of transparency surrounding the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity.
The senators said in a statement Thursday the GAO investigation would begin in about five months.
"The GAO's decision to investigate is essential to protecting American voters," Bennet said.
"In its review, the GAO must ensure the Commission's work isn't using taxpayer money to support conspiracies long relegated to the fringes of political discourse."
An email to Andrew Kossack, the commission's executive director, was not immediately returned.
The Trump commission has stirred controversy since it was established last spring.
Its first significant action was to request a wide range of information about all registered voters in every state, including partial Social Security numbers, dates of birth, addresses and voting history.
The commission scaled back its request after stinging criticism.
A tally by Associated Press reporters nationwide shows that 15 states denied the request, raising questions about how useful the information would be.
Critics say Trump is using the commission to find support for his unsubstantiated claims of widespread voter fraud that cost him the popular vote during the 2016 election.
Democrat Hillary Clinton received 2.8 million more votes nationwide than Trump.
While there have been isolated cases of voter fraud in the U.S., there is no evidence of it being a widespread problem, as Trump has suggested.
There have also been concern about the members of the commission, with saying it's stacked with people who favor voting restrictions, rather than those who want to expand access, and that the commission has a predetermined agenda that will result in recommendations making it more difficult for people to register to vote, stay registered and cast ballots.
Last week, two of the four Democrats on the 11-person commission sent letters complaining of a lack of information about the panel's work.
One of the commissioners, Jefferson County (Ala.) Probate Judge Alan L. King, said he had no information on when the commission's next meeting would be.
He also said that the only communication since the commission's last meeting more than a month ago had been to inform them of the death of a fellow commissioner, former Arkansas state lawmaker David Dunn.
In their Oct. 18 letter requesting the review, the senators cited a lack of response from the commission to several inquiries from members of Congress.
The senators asked for GAO staff to look into expenses incurred by the commission and the steps being taken to protect any voter data that has been collected, among other items.
"Without any PACEI response to Congressional inquiries, we fear that the manner in which the PACEI is conducting its work will prevent the public from a full and transparent understanding of the Commission's conclusions and unnecessarily diminish confidence in our democratic process," the senators wrote.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
2017 FOX News Network, LLC.
All rights reserved.
All market data delayed 20 minutes.
Multiple congressional committees are investigating an Obama-era deal that resulted in a Russian company purchasing American uranium mines.
And after the request from many Republican lawmakers, the Department of Justice has lifted a gag order on a former FBI informant who is expected to have more information about the agreement that allowed Russia to control about one-fifth of the uranium mining in the U.S. and former Secretary of State Hillary Clintons involvement in it.
The informant will be allowed to speak with the Senate Judiciary Committee, House Oversight Committee and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the Justice Department said Wednesday night.
The informant will be able to provide any information or documents he has concerning alleged corruption or bribery involving transactions in the uranium market, the department said.
The controversial sale of what is now Uranium One to a Russian company is what Trump has called the real Russia story as federal investigators continue to probe Russias alleged involvement in the 2016 election.
The Hill recently reported that Russian officials engaged in a racketeering scheme to further its energy goals in the U.S. What was the Uranium One deal?
In 2013, Rosatom, backed by the Russian state, acquired a Canadian uranium mining company, now called Uranium One, which has assets in the U.S.
Uranium is key to making nuclear weapons.
Through the deal, Russia is able to own about 20 percent of U.S. uranium production capacity.
However, Colin Chilcoat, an energy affairs specialist who has written extensively about Russia's energy deals, said that the company only extracts about 11 percent of uranium in the U.S.
The deal also doesnt allow for that uranium to be exported at all, Chilcoat told Fox News.
Its not like its leaving the U.S. or somehow finding its way to more insidious players.
HILLARY CLINTONS TOP AIDES STILL BEING PAID BY CAMPAIGN The agreement was approved by nine government agencies with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), an inter-agency group that reviews how certain foreign investments can impact national security.
Clintons State Department was one of those agencies, though the former secretary of state told WMUR-TV in 2015 that she was not personally involved in the agreement.
Why is it controversial?
Republicans have largely decried the deal, especially as some investors reportedly donated millions of dollars to the Clinton Foundation.
Former President Bill Clinton also received a $500,000 speaking fee in Russia and reportedly met with Vladimir Putin around the time of the deal.
The FBI had looked into the agreement and uncovered that some Russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in nefarious dealings, which included extortion, bribery and kickbacks, The Hill reported.
Evidence of wrongdoing by Vadim Mikerin, the Russian official overseeing Putins nuclear expansion in the U.S. who was eventually sentenced to prison, was discovered by the FBI before the deal was approved, according to The Hill.
Author Peter Schweizer who wrote about the deal in his 2015 book Clinton Cash told Fox News that there is no evidence that the people involved with approving the agreement knew that the FBI had an ongoing investigation into it.
But Republicans say the whole affair raises serious questions.
"If anyone colluded for a foreign government in last years election, it was the Clinton campaign."
- White House press secretary Sarah Sanders Now its the Democrats who have some explaining to do, Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement.
I hope they will cooperate with the investigation, be forthcoming with the American people and I expect the media to cover these new developments with the same breathless intensity that they have given to this investigation since day one.
And White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told Fox News Tuesday that if anyone colluded for a foreign government in last years election, it was the Clinton campaign [and] the Democrats.
Trump has often accused the media of not reporting enough on the Uranium One deal.
Uranium deal to Russia, with Clinton help and Obama administration knowledge, is the biggest story that Fake Media doesnt want to follow!
the president tweeted on Oct. 19.
And in March, Trump asked on social media why the House Intelligence Committee has not launched an investigation into the Bill and Hillary deal that allowed big Uranium to go to Russia.
How does this tie in with the other Russia investigation?
Multiple congressional committees as well as the Justice Department are looking into possible Russian collusion in the 2016 presidential election and ties between Russians and Trumps campaign.
"That's your real Russia story.
Not a story where they talk about collusion and there was none.
It was a hoax.
Your real Russia story is uranium," Trump told reporters during a press conference last week.
REPUBLICANS SEE TABLES TURNED AS DEMS FACE FRESH RUSSIA CONTROVERSIES Robert Mueller, the special counsel leading the probe into alleged Russian interference in the election, was the head of the FBI when it investigated Rosatom officials extortion and corruption.
And the investigation was led by then-Assistant FBI Director Andrew McCabe, now the deputy FBI director, and then-U.S. Attorney Rod Rosenstein, now the deputy attorney general, The Hill reported.
"Your real Russia story is uranium."
- President Donald Trump Mueller's investigators in the Russia probe report to Rosenstein.
Congressional committees are looking into whether Mueller informed the Obama administration, particularly those tasked with approving the Uranium One deal, prior to CFIUS approval.
MUELLER PROBE EXPANDS TO DEMOCRATIC LOBBYIST TONY PODESTAS DEALINGS In her attempt to discredit reports of the controversy surrounding the Uranium One deal, Clinton said Trump and his allies, including Fox News, are diverting from the investigation.
The closer the investigation about real Russian ties between Trump associates and real Russians the more they want to just throw mud on the wall, she said Monday.
Im their favorite target, me and President Obama.
What happens next?
Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, had asked the Department of Justice to lift the non-disclosure agreement preventing a federal informant from speaking about the deal.
The informants lawyer, Victoria Toensing, has told Fox Business that her client can tell what all the Russians were talking about during the time that all these bribery payments were made.
The informant was prevented from testifying by former attorneys general Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch, according to Toensing.
Witnesses who want to talk to Congress should not be gagged and threatened with prosecution for talking, Grassley, R-Iowa, said in a statement.
The Justice Department said Wednesday night that it has lifted the gag order, allowing the informant to discuss the deal with congressional investigators.
Jamil Jaffer, a former counsel in the Justice Department, said the alleged informant could allow Congress to follow the money because if the informant was inside many or all of these transactions, meetings or conversations, he may be able to provide useful information about the intent behind the transaction and whether it was quid pro quo.
The key issues at stake in this investigation are all about intent and knowledge: was there an intent to influence official business, and, if so, did the recipient take the money in exchange for taking official action, Jaffer, the director of the National Security Law and Policy Program at George Mason Universitys Antonin Scalia Law School, told Fox News.
But Jaffer said the credibility of the so-called informant will also come into play.
Was this a foreign agent or criminal who turned?
Was this a private individual the FBI placed inside [the deal]?
Was this a government employee?
All these factors, plus the level of the informants access to relevant information, will make a big difference here, Jaffer.
During a hearing with Attorney Gen. Jeff Sessions last week, Grassley pressed the former senator on actions the Justice Department might take regarding the deal.
Grassley said hes written several letters to government agencies inquiring if they knew about the FBI probe before they approved of the deal.
Sessions said the Justice Department will take appropriate actions but declined to comment specifically on the influence Russian officials might have had on the Obama administration to smooth the way for the deal.
I hear your concerns and they will be reviewed, Sessions said.
Grassley has called for a special counsel to be appointed to investigate the deal.
Rep. Ron DeSantis, R-Fla., told Fox News that the House Oversight committees investigation could be criminal, depending on the statute of limitations.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Trump is officially declaring the opioid crisis a public health emergency.
Trump told reporters in August that the epidemic is a serious problem the likes of which we have never had and had promised to declare it a national emergency.
"The opioid crisis is an emergency.
And I am saying officially right now: It is an emergency, it's a national emergency.
We're going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis," Trump said then.
Trump will deliver a speech Thursday in which he will instruct the Health and Human Services secretary to declare the epidemic a public health emergency.
Its important that the full weight of the federal government with each Cabinet department determining their role in the crisis is involved in tackling the epidemic, said Tom Coderre, a former official with the Obama administrations HHS Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
The opioid crisis is multi-faceted and multi-dimensional.
Its not like there is a secret weapon out there, Coderre told Fox News, adding that acting HHS Secretary Eric Hargan will be able to detail exactly what will happen with the declaration.
More funds or resources could be allocated to specific states struggling with the crisis.
The White House commission tasked with finding ways to combat and treat the countrys growing opioid addiction strongly recommended earlier this year that Trump declare a national emergency to battle the issue.
The Center for Disease Control estimates that 91 Americans die daily from opioid-involved deaths and a recent study by Dr. Christopher Ruhm suggests that opioid-related deaths are severely underreported.
Thursday's declaration was a long time coming, experts have said.
Open up more resources The commission said that an emergency declaration would persuade lawmakers to allocate more funding to combat opioid addiction.
Specific details about Trumps declaration and Hargans plan are scarce, including when it comes to additional funding.
Coderre, now a senior advisor at the nonprofit Altarum, said HHS could determine what federal funds states already have and possibly allow for more flexibility in spending.
Gary Mendell, founder and CEO of the nonprofit Shatterproof, argued that more funding is needed in order to properly combat the opioid epidemic.
People are talking about this more and more, but if the president were to declare this a national emergency, it creates recognition and awareness around the country that this epidemic needs right now."
It gives the president and Congress expedited ways to fund what needs to be funded to save the lives of so many every day and mobilizes the Cabinet to attack this issue, Mendell told Fox News.
Jessica Hulsey Nickel, president and CEO of the Addiction Policy Forum, praised the declaration in a statement to Fox News Thursday.
Prioritizing this national crisis will bring much needed resources to communities, improve access to services and facilitate better coordination among government agencies.
In particular, I am heartened by the decision to bring all federal government agencies to the table to play a unique role, Nickel said.
Create more awareness Officially declaring an emergency can bring more attention to the health crisis, the commission said.
It would also awaken every American to this simple fact: if this scourge has not found you or your family yet, without bold action by everyone, it soon will, the commission said.
You, Mr. President, are the only person who can bring this type of intensity to the emergency, and we believe you have the will to do so and to do so immediately.
Mendell agreed, saying that the crisis needs more attention and awareness.
People are talking about this more and more, but if the president were to declare this a national emergency, it creates recognition around the country and awareness around the country that this epidemic needs right now, he said.
Combat stigma When asked why an emergency hadnt already been declared, Mendell blamed the stigma associated with addiction and mental illness.
But the federal declaration of emergency could help change that negative stigma, he said.
Past declarations HHS has issued public health emergency declarations in the wake of natural disasters as well as the spread of diseases.
The agency issued its first declaration for the Zika virus in Puerto Rico in August 2016.
It was last renewed in April 2017.
Public health emergencies were also declared in New York following Hurricane Sandy in November 2012 and in Missouri following a series of storms and tornadoes in May 2011.
This declaration took too long as the number of daily opioid-related deaths has continued to increase, Coderre said.
It took too long to get to where we are today.
I think there was thought they could do this without declaring a national emergency, he said.
But people are dying.
The directive for the Justice Department to lift a "gag order" on a former FBI informant involved in a high-profile Russia bribery case came from President Trump himself, a source told Fox News.
On Wednesday night, the DOJ announced it had cleared the individual to speak to Congress about Moscows Obama-era uranium deals in the U.S. market and other schemes.
A source said the order to release the confidential informant came directly from Trump -- though who actually made the final call is unclear.
One well-placed source familiar with the decision-making process pushed back, saying the decision was made entirely by senior officials inside the DOJ.
GOP lawmakers specifically want to hear what the informant knows about how a controversial uranium deal with a Russian firm was OK'd in 2010 despite the fact the FBI for months had been probing a subsidiary in the bribery case -- and what, if any, efforts were made to influence the Obama administration and the Clintons.
In a statement, the department said it had authorized the informant to speak to the leaders of the Senate Judiciary Committee, House Oversight Committee, and the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, in addition to select staffers.
The department said the informant could provide any information or documents he has concerning alleged corruption or bribery involving transactions in the uranium market, including Russian company Rosatom, subsidiary Tenex, Uranium One and the Clinton Foundation.
Uranium One refers to the name of a Canada-based company with mines in the U.S. that was bought by Rosatom, a company backed by the Russian state.
The State Department, then led by Hillary Clinton, was one of nine U.S. government agencies that had to approve the deal back in 2010.
All three congressional committees launched investigations after The Hill reported that the FBI had evidence that Russian nuclear officials were involved in fraudulent dealings including extortion, bribery and kickbacks as far back as 2009 in a case involving Rosatoms subsidiary, Tenex.
Congressional Republicans have since questioned how the Uranium One deal was approved the following year by an inter-agency committee, and sought to gain access to the informant.
Republicans also have raised concerns about efforts by interested parties to influence the Clintons citing donations to the Clinton Foundation as well as a $500,000 speaking fee received in Russia by former President Bill Clinton, who reportedly met with Vladimir Putin around the time of the deal.
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who had sought to interview the informant, told Fox & Friends on Thursday hed still like to bring the source before a public committee hearing but praised the decision to free him up to speak to Congress in a private setting.
We ought to know about [what he knows], because transparency brings accountability, Grassley said.
Grassley had written in letters to federal agencies that hes not convinced by previous assurances that there were no unresolved national security concerns in the 2010 approval.
The informant's attorney, Victoria Toensing, told Fox Business Network Monday that her client can "tell what all the Russians were talking about during the time that all these bribery payments were made."
The informant earlier was prevented from testifying by former attorneys general Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch, according to Toensing, after having signed a non-disclosure agreement.
Fox News John Roberts and Jake Gibson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Its been more than 50 years since President John F. Kennedy was shot by Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963.
Since then, hundreds of conspiracies surrounding the shooting have emerged--fueling debates over who was responsible, why it happened and more.
But with President Donald Trumps promise to release the final batch of documents, which will be posted online Thursday by the National Archives, conspiracy theorists and historians alike could finally have answers to the questions they have long asked about that tragic day in American history.
The release comes 25 years after the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 was signed into law, mandating the release by a specific deadline of all JFK files that are currently held by the government.
Here are three questions the JFK files could help answer: Was there a second shooter?
Many conspiracy theorists believe that Oswald did not act alone.
Indeed, the theory -- better known as the grassy knoll hypothesis posits that another shot was fired from an area to the right of the president's motorcade.
Conspiracists argue that Oswald, who was perched on the sixth floor of the Texas School Book Depository with a Carcano Model 91/38 infantry rifle, could not have delivered such a fatal shot from that angle.
To further investigate JFKs murder and look into this theory, the House voted to establish a U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations in 1976, according to the Washington Post.
The committee concluded that there was probably a second shooter on the grassy knoll.
Even one acoustical study, which analyzed two police channel recordings from that day in relation to a gunshot-like sound from the grassy knoll, concluded that the gunshot-like sound occurred exactly synchronous with the time of the shooting.
While both findings have since been discredited, theorists continued to grow the theory.
"Anybody who thinks this is going to turn the case on its head and suddenly show that there were three or four shooters at Dealey Plaza -- it's not the case, Gerald Posner, the author of "Case Closed: Lee Harvey Oswald and the Assassination of JFK," told CNN.
Instead, the files could clarify exactly what happened after the first shots were fired.
What was Lee Harvey Oswald doing in Mexico City two months prior to Kennedys assassination?
Experts think that the some 3,000 documents could shed light on Oswalds six-day trip to Mexico City shortly before Kennedys assassination.
While conspiracists argue that Oswald was ordered by Soviet or Cuban agents to kill Kennedy, especially because the one-time Marine defected to the Soviet Union, the same 1976 committee did not find any evidence of Soviet, Cuban or CIA involvement in his assassination, according to the Washington Post.
JFK ASSASSINATION FILES SET FOR RELEASE, BUT WHAT THEY REVEAL REMAINS A MYSTERY Additionally, both the CIA and the FBI did not find any evidence of Cuban or Soviet involvement, according to the Post.
However, the most recent batch of JFK files, which were released in 1993, revealed that Oswald not only visited the Cuban and Soviet embassies in Mexico City in 1963, but also met with Valeriy Kostikov, a KGB officer who worked for KGBs Department 13, which, according to a Washington Post article from 1993, is the department charged with sabotage and assassination.
The documents released Thursday could reveal what Oswalds meetings in Mexico City entailed.
An inside job?
Some conspiracists argue that the CIA and even Lyndon B. Johnson, Kennedys vice president, were behind the assassination.
While the U.S. House Select Committee on Assassinations also ruled out any CIA involvement, some conspiracists believe that the CIA was behind the assassination because they opposed Kennedys handling of the Bay of Pigs invasion in 1961 -- a CIA-sponsored mission to overthrow Cuban dictator Fidel Castro.
Other theorists argue that Oswald was set up by the CIA as a scapegoat.
Still, experts argue that the documents released Thursday will do nothing but challenge this theory.
Theres going to be no smoking gun in there, Posner told CNN of the documents.
The House of Representatives on Thursday narrowly approved a $4 trillion budget that paves the way for Republicans on Capitol Hill to begin focusing on tax reform.
The vote was 216-212, with 20 Republicans, including conservatives unhappy about deficits and debt, opposing it.
Republicans could lose only 22 votes for it to pass.
Big news - Budget just passed!
President Trump tweeted Thursday morning.
The Senate passed the measure last week and the House endorsed it without changes.
Tax reform will help reignite the American dream, House Speaker Paul Ryan told reporters after the vote.
It will help bring us back to a place of confidence, freedom, happiness and a stronger, healthier economy.
And this budget that the House just passed, 20 minutes ago, brings us closer to making that dream a reality.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas announced that the text of the tax bill will be released Nov. 1.
By passing this budget today, House Republicans just provided the legislative runway for pro-growth tax reform, Brady said.
Our successful vote will allow us to move forward quickly on delivering the first overhaul of Americas tax code in more than three decades.
Brady also said the Ways and Means Committee will consider the legislation in a committee markup beginning Nov. 6.
A markup session is where the committee goes through the bill line by line and revamps the package before advancing it to the floor.
The tax bill is the top item on the GOP agenda and would be Trump's first major win in Congress.
The goal is a full rewrite of the inefficient, loophole-laden tax code in hopes of lower rates for corporations and other businesses and a spurt of economic growth.
Brady told reporters on Wednesday morning that he's still looking at curtailing tax-free deposits in 401(k) retirement accounts, a move that could raise revenue in the near term as retirement savings shift to Roth-style accounts that are funded with after-tax earnings.
Trump says he opposes curbing 401(k) donations, however, which tossed a monkey wrench into the process.
Key decisions about tax brackets, including a new bracket for high-income earners, remain up in the air.
Outcomes on other provisions are unsettled as well, lending a sense of chaos as GOP leaders rush to fulfill a goal of passing the measure through the House before Thanksgiving.
Republicans view passage of the tax measure as a career-defining dream, and its importance has only grown in the wake of the party's debacle on health care.
Fox News Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Two high-profile U.S. senators testified Thursday on behalf of their embattled colleague, Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., as his bribery and corruption trial nears its end.
Menendez got support on the stand from a Democrat and a Republican.
South Carolina GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham and New Jersey Democratic Sen. Cory Booker testified that Menendez was honest and honorable.
Menendez is on trial in Newark for allegedly accepting gifts from a donor, Dr. Salomon Melgen, including free trips on the eye doctors private jet.
MENENDEZ CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY TRIAL: WHAT TO KNOW "In very difficult circumstances he always keeps his word," Graham said during about six minutes of testimony.
"A handshake is all you need from Bob.
He's a very honest, hardworking senator."
Graham arrived at the courthouse before Menendez and spoke briefly with reporters.
After his testimony, he told reporters that even though he disagrees with Menendez politically, all my interactions with Bob have been on the up and up.
He is the type of guy who gives you his word and he sticks with it no matter how much pressure put on him to back off, Graham said, and we need more of that not less.
Menendez and Melgen have both pleaded not guilty to the charges.
Booker also testified on Thursday, saying his fellow New Jersey senator is someone who keeps his word.
"Theres a rule I have with my staff, which is under-promise and over-deliver, and thats what hes about when he would tell me something and I found him profoundly honorable and trustworthy and direct, Booker said, adding that "if he gives you his word you can take it to the bank."
Graham's office said that he traveled to Newark at his own expense.
The trial is in its eighth week.
Neither Melgen nor Menendez has testified.
The defense is expected to rest its case soon, after which the two sides are expected to spar over how U.S. District Judge William Walls is to instruct the jury on the law.
The definition of official bribery was narrowed by a 2016 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that has been responsible for the recent overturning of several politicians' corruption convictions.
Fox News' Whitney Ksiazek and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump has expressed his support for the Republican candidate for Virginia governor and accused the Democratic candidate of "fighting for the violent MS-13" gang.
Republican Ed Gillespie and Democrat Ralph Northam are duking it out in next months gubernatorial race in the Old Dominion commonwealth.
Just one of two states electing governors this year, Virginia is a swing state contest viewed as a possible referendum on Trump's first year in office.
Northam leads Gillespie by 7 percentage points in Fox News' latest polling average.
Trump lost to opponent Hillary Clinton by about 5 points in Virginia during the 2016 presidential election.
Heres a look at the candidates.
Ed Gillespie, Republican This isnt Ed Gillespies first rodeo when it comes to Virginia politics.
The 56-year-old ran against incumbent Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., in 2014 and nearly defeated him.
Gillespie is a former chair of the National Republican Committee and served as a counselor to former President George W. Bush for nearly two years.
Gillespie touts his leadership within conservative circles on his campaign website, highlighting his time as chairman of the Republican Party of Virginia and work as a communications aide to former House Majority Leader Dick Armey.
Gillespie and his wife have three children and live in Fairfax County, Va.
He graduated from Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C.
GUN CONTROL ACTIVISTS TO POUR ANOTHER MILLION DOLLARS INTO VIRGINIA STATE ELECTIONS While Trump endorsed Gillespie in a tweet in October, the establishment gubernatorial candidate hasnt totally embraced the president or his politics on the campaign trail.
And he almost lost to an ardent Trump defender in the primary race.
Still, Trump offered his support and encouraged his more than 40 million Twitter followers to Vote Ed Gillespie!
Bush is hosted a fundraiser for Gillespie in Virginia earlier this month.
And Vice President Mike Pence joined him at a weekend rally.
Ralph Northam, Democrat Ralph Northam, the lieutenant governor of Virginia, is a physician and Army veteran.
On his campaign website, he said he is most proud of his career fighting for children as a pediatric neurologist and volunteer medical director for a pediatric hospice care facility.
While current Virginia Gov.
Terry McAuliffe is barred by state law from running for reelection, Northam, 58, is expected to govern the commonwealth much as McAuliffe did.
He is for greater gun control and abortion rights.
He has also promised to be a brick wall against the discrimination of the Trump administration, according to his campaign website.
VIRGINIA GUBERNATORIAL DEBATE TOUCHES TAXES, TRUMP, CONFEDERATE STATUES While encouraging Virginians to vote for Gillespie, Trump accused Northam of fighting for the violent MS-13 killer gangs [and] sanctuary cities.
Northam responded on Twitter with a link to his campaign donations website.
He has also called the president a narcissistic maniac multiple times during the primary.
Former Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton headlined a fundraiser for Northam in New York earlier this month.
And former Vice President Joe Biden backed Northam during a roundtable event.
Former President Barack Obama also campaigned with Northam earlier in October.
Northam lives in Norfolk, Va., with his wife.
The pair has two children, a son who is a neurosurgery resident and a daughter who is working as a web developer.
Northams campaign was criticized this week for a Democratic mailer that shows Gillespie and Trump along with a photo of the angry white nationalists carrying torches who descended on Charlottesville, Va., in August.
The mailer encourages voters to stand up to hate.
Northam has stood by the mailer and slammed Gillespie for not denouncing Trump for not calling these white supremacists out for who they are.
Because the message is that we live in a very diverse society.
That means that we need to be inclusive, Northam said, according to the Richmond Times-Dispatch.
We need to welcome people.
Our lights need to be on, our doors open.
We dont promote hatred and bigotry in this country and in the commonwealth of Virginia.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
House Speaker Paul Ryan on Thursday said he believes House Republican leaders can strike a deal with tax reform holdouts to win their vote on a final bill.
The House on Thursday narrowly voted 216 to 212 to approve a budget resolution, a key step to tax reform.
A full 20 Republicans, most of whom represent high-tax blue states New York and New Jersey, opposed the measure.
Some voted against the budget over concerns about its spending levels.
The vote showed that both factions have leverage over leadership heading into the tax reform debate.
Opposition could come when House Republicans release an expected draft bill next week, and leadership could need support from some of the holdouts to approve what would be the singular legislative achievement of President Donald Trump's first year in office.
"The Ways and Means Committee will be putting out a specific plan very shortly, and they're going to work with all of our members to look at and consider and address these concerns," Ryan told reporters Thursday.
"I believe that the Ways and Means Committee will be working with these members in particular to find a solution."
Nearly all Republicans will get behind a bill to chop tax rates in an effort to spur economic growth.
However, lawmakers have expressed concerns about other specific provisions in a tax framework released last month, most of which are intended to raise money.
GOP leaders have called for scrapping state and local tax deductions, a popular provision that largely benefits high-tax blue states.
Some lawmakers in the Northeast opposed the budget resolution, but they never truly imperiled its passage.
Later Thursday, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Kevin Brady, R-Texas, told reporters that a meeting with the Republicans in favor of state and local deductions did not yield a compromise.
"They made it clear.
They need this problem solved before they vote 'yes' on tax reform," he said.
Before the vote, the House Liberty Caucus, led by Rep. Justin Amash, R-Mich., also announced it would oppose what it called "wasteful" spending in the budget measure.
The group raised concerns about deficits generated by it.
The budget also allows for tax cuts to add up to $1.5 trillion to the federal deficit over a decade.
Ryan on Thursday described the budget as "really important" to passing tax reform.
It unlocks budget reconciliation, which allows the Senate to pass a plan with only a simple majority, or at least 50 of 52 GOP votes with Vice President Mike Pence breaking a tie.
Ryan did not answer questions about whether the House would make other controversial tweaks to the tax code, like changing the popular 401(k) contribution benefit.
He deferred specific policy questions to the House Ways and Means Committee, the chamber's chief tax-writing panel.
Brady said the House will introduce a bill on Wednesday and start committee deliberations on Nov. 6.
CNBC's Christina Wilkie contributed to this report.
The billionaire founder of Insys Therapeutics was arrested on Thursday on charges that he participated in a scheme with other executives to bribe doctors to prescribe a fentanyl-based cancer pain drug and to defraud insurers.
John Kapoor, 74, who stepped down as chief executive of Insys in January, was charged with having engaged in conspiracies to commit racketeering, mail fraud and wire fraud in an indictment filed in federal court in Boston.
He was arrested in Arizona, where Insys is based, and added as a defendant in a previously filed case against six former Insys executives and managers, including former Chief Executive Michael Babich, prosecutors said.
Brian Kelly, Kapoor's lawyer, said in an email: "My client is innocent and he intends to fight these charges vigorously."
Insys, which has been in settlement talks with the U.S. Justice Department in connection with the probe, declined to comment.
Its stock price fell 4.56 percent to $7.08 in midday trading on Thursday.
The charges marked a major escalation of the ongoing investigations of Insys related to Subsys, an under-the-tongue spray that contains fentanyl, a highly addictive synthetic opioid.
Those probes have come amid a national opioid abuse epidemic.
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, opioids were involved in over 33,000 deaths in 2015.
The death rate has continued to rise, according to estimates.
Kapoor, who founded Insys in 2002 and remains a board member, stepped down in January as the company's chairman and chief executive, a role he took on in November 2015.
He is currently the chairman of drugmaker Akorn and president of investment firm EJ Financial Enterprises.
According to the indictment, following the launch of Subsys in 2012, Kapoor and Babich grew dissatisfied with the drug's success in its initial three months on the market.
It says they, with others, devised a scheme to pay bribes in the form of speaker fees and food and entertainment to medical practitioners to prescribe Subsys and to increase the dosage and volume of existing prescriptions.
They also sought to mislead and defraud insurers who were reluctant to approve payment for Subsys when it was prescribed to patients who did not have cancer, the indictment said.
The Treasury Department on Thursday issued sanctions on seven individuals and three entities connected to North Korea after a new State Department report on human rights abuses by Kim Jon Un's regime.
The sanctions freeze any property or interest in property within U.S. jurisdiction and generally prohibit any transactions by U.S. citizens with any of the sanctioned individuals or groups.
Among the sanctioned entities are the government of North Korea and the Workers' Party of Korea.
"North Korea is run by a brutal regime that continues to engage in serious human rights abuses.
We are especially concerned with the North Korean military, which operates as secret police, punishing all forms of dissent.
Further, the military operates outside of North Korea to hunt down asylum seekers, and brutally detains and forcibly returns North Korean citizens," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said.
"Today's sanctions target the North Korean military and regime officials engaged in flagrant abuses of human rights.
We also are targeting North Korean financial facilitators who attempt to keep the regime afloat with foreign currency earned through forced labor operations."
The newly sanctioned parties include North Korean diplomats, military security officers and officials with state-owned construction companies.
According to the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control, the DPRK's Military Security Command and two of its top officials, Jo Kyong-Chol and Sin Yong Il, will be put under sanction, as will Ri Thae Chol, the country's first vice minister of the Ministry of People's Security.
The diplomats being sanctioned are Ku Sung Sop the consul general in Shenyang, China and Kim Min Chol, who works at the North Korean Embassy in Vietnam.
The other targeted parties are connected to a system of North Korean construction companies that export labor overseas, often to work in slave-like conditions, the U.S. said.
The country's External Construction Bureau and its director, Kim Kang Jin, will be sanctioned, as will the Ch'olhyo'n Overseas Construction Company.
In September, the Treasury Department announced sanctions in against eight North Korean banks and 26 people linked to the country's financial networks.
The actions come as the U.S. presses the communist dictatorship to end its nuclear weapons testing and missile launchings.
Among the no votes from New York were Republican Reps. Peter King, Lee Zeldin, John Faso, Elise Stefanik and John Katko; noes from New Jersey included Reps. Frank LoBiondo, Tom MacArthur and Leonard Lance.
These members hoped that by stalling the tax-reform process, they might gain enough leverage to protect a popular deduction for state and local taxes, known as the SALT write-off.
The current GOP tax framework calls for eliminating the SALT deduction to help pay for the tax cuts.
But this would likely have a disproportionate impact on middle-income taxpayers in places like New York, New Jersey and California, and as of late Wednesday, it was still unclear how many of the 30 Republicans who represent high-tax states would vote against the budget.
"Why should I vote for something that would end up decimating my district?"
King told Reuters on Wednesday.
Also among the no votes were some of the most fiscally conservative members of the House Republican caucus, who were concerned that the budget contained too much spending.
Shortly before the vote, the House Liberty Caucus released a statement opposing the budget.
With the budget vote out of the way, Republicans must now move on to the brass tacks phase of reforming the tax code.
Shortly after the vote on Thursday, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Calif., announced that a tax reform bill would be formally introduced on Wednesday, with a markup in his committee slated to begin Nov. 6.
"Today is a historic day, and we are ready to deliver tax relief that improves the lives of middle income Americans and struggling families who have been left behind in our slow-growing economy," Brady said in a statement.
Like pretty much every big personnel call in this White House, President Donald Trump has turned his selection of a Federal Reserve chair into a version of "The Bachelor" with everyone feverishly guessing who will get the role of leading the world's most important central bank.
Trump has gone so far as to solicit advice from Fox Business Network host Lou Dobbs in a televised interview.
"Tell me who your preference is," Trump asked Dobbs.
"I'd love to hear it.
You could even cut it out if you want.
You don't have to I would love to hear you.
I only want that from people I respect."
Dobbs went on to suggest keeping Janet Yellen, something that I'm told is at least somewhat attractive to Trump given that markets love the current chair and would likely react favorably to her status quo renomination.
But a source who talks to the president regularly about the Fed and other economic matters tells me that while Trump does like Yellen, he is not going to renominate her because he wants to put his own mark on the central bank something the president also suggested to Dobbs.
Just after this conversation, another senior source close to the Fed nomination process cautioned me not to rule Yellen or anyone else out.
"He changes his mind about it every day," this person said.
But a consensus among people close to the process has emerged that the race is likely down to either current Fed Governor Jerome "Jay" Powell or Stanford economist John Taylor.
Former Fed Governor Kevin Warsh sparked increasing speculation after a meeting last week with Vice President Mike Pence.
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is pushing against Warsh and in favor of Powell, whom he got to know in recent months working on financial reform issues.
National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn has been mostly out of the running for weeks now both because of his clash with Trump over the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia, and because the president wants the former Goldman Sachs president to keep working on the high-stakes tax cut push.
An announcement on the Fed chair pick could come any day, but sources close to the matter say it will most likely happen next week before the president departs for a 12-day trip to Asia.
Even that is not assured, however.
If Trump can't make up his mind, the announcement could wait until he gets back.
The Senate needs to have hearings before the Banking Committee and a full vote prior to Yellen's term expiring on Feb. 3.
Ideally, the process of sending up the next nominee would start soon.
The Senate can move quickly when it wants to it's basically up to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell so next week is really not a hard deadline for the president.
The arguments favoring a Powell chairmanship include that it would allow Trump to install his own pick while also likely continuing the very modest approach to rate normalization and balance sheet drawdown initiated by the Yellen Fed.
Taylor, while much more beloved by conservatives on the Hill and places like The Wall Street Journal editorial board, would present at least something more of a hawkish risk that might spark jitters on Wall Street.
Some conservatives on Capitol Hill have led a behind-the-scenes campaign against Powell and in favor of Taylor or Warsh.
But it's not clear that those efforts will produce results, especially given that Trump generally does whatever he wants with limited regard for what Republicans in Congress say.
And Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., is among the few on record arguing against Powell.
Taylor won a straw poll when Trump met with Senate Republicans earlier this week and quizzed them on their Fed preference, but there is very little chance many would vote "no" if Trump actually sends up a Powell nomination.
And Powell is a former banker rather than a wonky economist like Taylor, a style Trump tends to prefer in his nominees.
So the betting line remains on Powell for chair and perhaps Taylor for vice chair, if he is willing.
Heavy caveats continue to apply.
Trump could change his mind at the last minute and turn the process on its head, possibly even electing to simply stick with Yellen, though that remains unlikely.
The rose is still up for grabs.
Ben White is Politico's chief economic correspondent and a CNBC contributor.
He also authors the daily tip sheet Politico Morning Money [politico.com/morningmoney].
Follow him on Twitter @morningmoneyben.
'Nobody has been ruled out' for Fed chair -Senior administration official 22 Hours Ago | 02:58 The race to see who will lead the Federal Reserve in 2018 and beyond is becoming a process of elimination, with two and perhaps three candidates remaining.
President Donald Trump apparently has solidified his thinking and is now choosing between Fed Governor Jerome "Jay" Powell and Stanford economist John Taylor.
However, several twists have been interjected into the equation.
"Trump changes his mind about it everyday," a source told Politico, according to a report posted Thursday.
The site speculated that current Chair Janet Yellen remains in the mix because Trump is worried that removing her might disrupt the hardy stock market rally that has taken place since his election.
The Dow industrials have surged more than 30 percent from the low just a couple days before the Nov. 8 election.
However, one source reportedly close to Trump did tell Politico that Yellen was out of the race completely.
The report adds further detail on how the process has unfolded.
Former Governor Kevin Warsh, once considered a favorite for the job, has fallen out of favor, perhaps because of a long-simmering feud he has had with recently appointed Governor Randal Quarles, according to a Bloomberg report that Politico cited.
Meanwhile, Keith Hennessey, a former advisor to President George W. Bush, is backing Warsh.
Gary Cohn, Trump's chief economic advisor, also has been ruled out in a number of reports, though an administration official told CNBC otherwise.
And Trump added to the strangeness of the process when he asked Lou Dobbs, a host on Fox Business, whom he thought the president should appoint.
That comes just a few days after Trump asked members of the GOP leadership for a show of hands on what they thought he should do.
Dobbs said he thought Yellen was worth considering for reappointment.
"We're obviously doing very well together if you look at the markets," Trump said on the show.
CNBC has reached out to those involved for comment.
Read the full Politico report here.
Some of the items in the GOP tax reform discussion are just "buying off" special interests and serve no other purpose, Republican Sen. Bob Corker told CNBC on Thursday.
"Some of the things we're doing, I'm sorry, are ridiculous," Corker told "Squawk Box," though he did not mention any specifics.
"I'm sorry, but we live in a political world," said Corker, a member on the Senate Budget and Banking committees.
Those things are "not going to drive 1 ounce of economic growth.
But it's what you have to do to pass a tax bill."
Corker described some efforts to pass tax reform as "unfortunate."
"It's buying off of people to pass tax reform," Corker said.
"We could take a lot of this off in the trash can and make it easier and actually do something that grows our economy and increases our wages," he said.
President Donald Trump and the GOP have been pushing for a major overhaul to the U.S. tax code.
They believe tax relief would give the current economy a boost.
House Republicans on Thursday narrowly approved a budget deal, a crucial step toward passing tax cuts later this year.
Corker, who has been highly critical of Trump, told CNBC that despite his war of words with the president he's "all in" on tax reform.
Corker is not seeking reelection.
The Tennessee Republican said he wants to "go out with afterburners trying to make things happen."
Sen. Bob Corker: Some of the 'ridiculous' things in tax reform are just 'buying off' lawmakers to pass it 3 Hours Ago | 00:50 Sen. Bob Corker told CNBC on Thursday his sharp criticism of President Donald Trump's fitness for office will "absolutely not" influence his vote on tax reform.
The Tennessee Republican described himself as "all in" on the GOP effort to overhaul the tax system, regardless of his feelings on the president's competence.
"This tax reform is our agenda, it's the Republican Senate agenda," Corker said in a "Squawk Box" interview.
"It would be like somebody in your listening audience representing their company, sitting across the table from someone they may have a low regard for, but are they going do something that's going to damage their company because of that?
Absolutely not."
The spat between Corker and Trump erupted anew on Tuesday, when Trump unleashed a blistering string of tweets following the senator's assertion that the White House should "step aside" and let Congress handle writing the tax bill.
Later responding to Trump, Corker said the claims in the president's tweets were untrue.
He said Trump "debases our country" and will not "rise to the occasion as president."
WASHINGTON President Trump will order his health secretary to declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency Thursday but will stop short of declaring a more sweeping state of national emergency, aides said.
In an address from the White House, Trump will also try to rally the nation to a growing epidemic that claimed 64,000 American lives last year, and will advocate for a sustained national effort to end to the addiction crisis.
"Drug demand and opioid misuse is the crisis next door," said Kellyanne Conway, a senior counselor to the president, previewing the tone of Trump's speech Wednesday.
"This is no longer someone else's co-worker, someone else's community, someone else's kid.
Drug use knows no geographic boundaries or demographic differences."
More from USA Today: FDA chief supports opioid prescription limits, regrets agency's prior inaction Trump says he'll declare opioid crisis a national emergency.
Here's what that could mean As he chairs Trump's opioid commission, Christie champions his home-state drug companies To respond to that crisis, Trump will sign a presidential memorandum ordering Acting Secretary of Health and Human Services Eric Hargan to waive regulations and give states more flexibility in how they use federal funds, said four senior officials responsible for crafting the administration's new opioid policy.
The officials previewed the action to USA TODAY on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak ahead of the president's announcement.
Trump first promised to declare a national emergency to combat the crisis on Aug. 10, and repeated that pledge last week.
Speaking to reporters on the south lawn of the White House Wednesday, Trump touted a "big meeting" on opioids, and said a national emergency "gives us power to do things that you can't do right now."
But there's a legal distinction between a public health emergency, which the secretary of Health can declare under the Public Health Services Act, and a presidential emergency under the National Emergencies Act.
The latter is what the president's own opioid commission recommended in July.
Declaring a state of national emergency would give the president even more power to waive privacy laws and Medicare regulations to increase the number of beds available to treat substance abuse.
Those facilities are now limited to 16 beds.
James Hodge, a law professor at Arizona State University, said a "dual declaration" using both laws would make a larger difference, but that any emergency would be a welcome response to the crisis.
Trump's decision to go with a more measured response, a public health emergency, demonstrates the complexity of an opioid crisis that continues to grow through an ever-evolving cycle of addiction, from prescription pain pills to illegal heroin to the lethal fentanyl.
But the legal powers Trump is invoking were designed for a short-term emergencies like disasters and infectious diseases.
New security screenings for all passengers on U.S.-bound flights began on Thursday, with airlines worldwide questioning flyers about their trip and their luggage in the latest Trump administration decision affecting global travel.
However, confusion still remains about the new regulations, which come at the end of a 120-day period following the United States lifting a ban on laptops in airplane cabins affecting 10 Mideast cities.
The new regulations cover all the 2,100 flights from around the world entering the U.S. on any given day.
Some airlines said they had received permission to delay implementing the new rules until January.
At Dubai International Airport, the world's busiest for international travel, long-haul carrier Emirates began questioning passengers about their luggage, liquids they were carrying and where they were coming from.
Passengers also had to have their carry-on bags searched, along with their electronics.
Emirates declined to discuss the new procedures in detail on Thursday.
On Wednesday, it said it would conduct "passenger pre-screening interviews" for those traveling on U.S.-bound flights in concert with other checks on electronics.
Elsewhere, things did not appear to be going so smoothly.
In China, an official in the Xiamen Airlines press office, who would only give his surname as Qiu, said that the airlines received a "demand" about the new U.S. regulations and planned "to take some security measures, including security safety interviews from today on."
"We're not going to interview all passengers, but focus on those with a certain degree of risk when checking the passengers' documents on the ground," he said, without elaborating.
An official with the Eastern Airlines publicity department said that she saw media reports about security safety interviews but didn't have immediate details on what her company was doing.
An official at the Beijing Airport press center would only say: "We always strictly follow relevant regulations of the Civil Aviation Administration when conducting security checks."
Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity under regulations.
At Air China, the country's flag carrier, an official who only gave his surname, Zhang, said it would comply.
"We will meet the demands from the U.S. side, but as for the detailed measures (we will take), it is inconvenient for us to release," he said.
South Korea's Transport Ministry said that the United States agreed to delay implementing the new screening for the country's two biggest carriers, Korean Air Lines Co. and Asiana Airlines Inc., until next year on condition they deploy staff at boarding gates to monitor travelers.
Royal Jordanian, based in Amman, also has said it would introduce the new procedures in mid-January.
Other airlines with U.S.-bound flights at Seoul's Incheon International Airport brought in as many as seven extra staff Thursday to question passengers under the new rules but there were no major delays, airport spokesman Lee Jung-hoon said.
Singapore Airlines passengers may be required to "undergo enhanced security measures" including inspection of personal electronic devices "as well as security questioning during check-in and boarding," the carrier said on its website.
Other carriers who announced the new regulations on Wednesday included Air France, Hong Kong-based Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd., the airlines of Germany's Lufthansa Group and EgyptAir.
In Hong Kong, passengers described some of the questions they were asked.
"They asked me if I packed my own bag, where I packed it from, where I came from, they looked at my itinerary, verify where I was, who I was, from where I came from," said Fran Young, who was travelling to Los Angeles.
Some showed displeasure.
"It's a little inconvenient, I kind of just want to get my printed ticket and then just go inside," passenger Gavin Lai said.
"I don't want to wait on people to interview me like that.
So it's a little annoying."
U.S. carriers also will be affected by the new rules.
Delta Air Lines said it was telling passengers traveling to the U.S. to arrive at the airport at least three hours before their flight and allow extra time to get through security.
United declined to comment, while American did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
In March, U.S. officials introduced the laptop ban in the cabins of some Mideast airlines over concerns Islamic State fighters and other extremists could hide bombs inside of them.
The ban was lifted after those airlines began using devices like CT scanners to examine electronics before passengers boarded planes heading to the U.S.
Some also increasingly swab passengers' hands to check for explosive residue.
The laptop ban as well as travel bans affecting predominantly Muslim countries have hurt Mideast airlines.
Emirates, the region's biggest, said it slashed 20 percent of its flights to the U.S. in the wake of the restrictions.
More than half a century after U.S. President John F. Kennedy was struck down by an assassin's bullet in Dallas, Texas, the United States is due on Thursday to release the final files on the investigation into the killing that rattled a nation.
Academics who have studied Kennedy's slaying on Nov. 22, 1963, said they expected the final batch of files to offer no major new details on why Lee Harvey Oswald gunned down the first and only Irish-American Roman Catholic to hold the office.
They also feared that the final batch of more than 5 million total pages on the Kennedy assassination held in the National Archives will do little to quell long-held conspiracy theories that the 46-year-old president's killing was organized by the Mafia, by Cuba, or a cabal of rogue agents.
Thousands of books, articles, TV shows and films have explored the idea that Kennedy's assassination was the result of an elaborate conspiracy.
None have produced conclusive proof that Oswald, who was shot dead a day after killing Kennedy, worked with anyone else, though they retain a powerful cultural currency.
"My students are really skeptical that Oswald was the lone assassin," said Patrick Maney, a professor of history at Boston College.
"It's hard to get our minds around this, that someone like a loner, a loser, could on his own have murdered Kennedy and changed the course of world history.
But that's where the evidence is."
In 1992, Congress ordered that all records relating to the investigation into Kennedy's death should be open to the public, and set a final deadline of Oct. 26, 2017, for the entire set to be made public.
President Donald Trump on Saturday confirmed that he would allow the documents to be made public.
The documents to be released on Thursday will likely focus on efforts by the Central Intelligence Agency and Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine what contact Oswald had with spies from Cuba and the former Soviet Union on a trip to Mexico City in September 1963, experts said.
"There was a real concern that Oswald was maybe in league with the Soviet Union," Maney said.
Kennedy's assassination was the first in a string of politically motivated killings, including those of his brother Robert F. Kennedy and civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr., that stunned the United States during the turbulent 1960s.
He remains one of the most admired U.S. presidents.
A budget plan crucial to President Donald Trump's hopes for large-scale tax cuts looked set for a close vote in the U.S. House of Representatives on Thursday after some Republicans vowed opposition in an effort to protect a popular tax break.
The rebellious faction is resisting a proposal to eliminate a federal deduction for state and local income taxes, which would hit middle-class voters in high-tax states like New York, New Jersey and California.
The idea is one of several that have been floated as Republicans craft a tax-cut plan.
The budget blueprint, which has already been approved by the Senate, is central to their efforts to push tax legislation through Congress in the face of staunch opposition from Democrats.
The proposal "is obviously an issue of concern to a group of members, and the shared goal is to work together to address the issue and move forward," an aide to House Majority Whip Steve Scalise said on Wednesday.
With the clock ticking toward a vote, the impasse had yet to be settled.
Republican lawmakers had planned to meet in House Speaker Paul Ryan's office at 9 p.m. to try to hammer out a resolution, but the meeting was postponed until after the budget vote, which was set for 10:30 a.m. (1430 GMT).
Republican Representative Tom MacArthur of New Jersey told reporters it was possible there were enough votes to block the budget plan.
"It's got to be close," he said.
Scalise predicted victory.
"We're going to get it done," he told Fox News Channel.
Republicans have sketched out a tax package that independent analysts say would cut taxes for businesses and individuals by up to $6 trillion over the next decade, but detailed legislation is not expected to be unveiled until next week.
If Congress approves a tax-cut plan, it would hand Trump his first major legislative win since he took office in January.
"I am urging Republicans who have questions about SALT (the state and local tax deduction) to vote no tomorrow and keep voting no until we get some compromise we can live with," Republican Representative Peter King of New York told Reuters.
An aide to Republican Representative Tom Reed of New York said there was discussion of a compromise that would call for a tax credit up to a certain income amount to replace the deduction, and that he would support it.
Republican Representative Leonard Lance of New Jersey told Reuters he was not interested in a compromise at this time, and instead wanted the repeal provision taken off the table.
"I will be voting no on the budget tomorrow," he said.
President Donald Trump said on Wednesday that Russia was hurting U.S. efforts to rid North Korea of nuclear weapons while China had been helpful.
In an interview with Fox Business Network, Trump said it would be easier to resolve the North Korea nuclear issue if the United States had a better relationship with Russia.
"China is helping us and maybe Russia's going through the other way and hurting what we're getting," Trump said of the North Korea situation.
A series of weapons tests by North Korea and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have ratcheted up tensions.
Disagreements over controversial pieces of the Republican tax proposal threaten to trip up the party's efforts to approve a tax overhaul this year.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross on Wednesday at the NetNet event outlined a possible compromise for lawmakers.
The House hopes to pass a budget on Thursday and move one step closer to approving a tax plan.
If House Republicans can clear a budget resolution already passed by the Senate, they hope to release a tax bill next week and pass it by Thanksgiving.
Already, sticking points in the plan have emerged, threatening the loss of votes for a party that holds only a narrow majority in the Senate.
Ross identified multiple "hard" questions facing the GOP as it aims to broadly chop tax rates for individuals and businesses.
Republicans have to decide whether to add a fourth, highest income tax rate on the wealthy above the top 35 percent outlined in a framework last month.
They also have to consider how to handle several popular deductions like state and local tax deductions.
Republican lawmakers in the high-tax blue states that benefit from the provisions already have fought back against a proposal to scrap them.
Ross suggested a cap on the income levels at which the deductions could be used.
The income cap could also apply to popular provisions like the charitable deduction, he said.
Doing so "saves some of the money but doesn't do away with the concept," Ross said.
While the White House has given input on the tax plan, like President Donald Trump did when he urged Congress not to change a retirement savings benefit, the congressional tax-writing committees will ultimately decide the bill's shape.
The tax writers sought to get rid of some deductions to offset the deficits created by the tax cuts.
A major deficit increase could put off some GOP lawmakers concerned about fiscal discipline.
On the timeline for passing a tax plan, Ross echoed Trump and GOP congressional leaders in saying he wants a bill approved this year.
He added: "I think what's more important is to get it done and get it done properly and to endorse the directional guidance the president has given."
However, Ross said that taking longer to pass a tax proposal could create "indecision" or "paralysis" when businesses or individuals plan financial moves at the end of the year.
While Ross is a top economic advisor to Trump, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and chief economic advisor Gary Cohn have led the White House effort on taxes.
Ross added that he believes the U.S. will ultimately reach a deal with Canada and Mexico on revising the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Negotiations on reworking the deal will go into next year.
The average price of the most popular types of Obamacare health plans sold on the federal insurance marketplace will be at least 34 percent higher in 2018, according to an analysis released Wednesday.
The Avalere Health analysis also found lower but still double-digit average price hikes for the other types of Obamacare plans, which go on sale Nov. 1.
Continued uncertainty in Obamacare markets, and the Trump administration's threats and eventual decision to cut off key payments to insurers are fueling the higher prices, Avalere said.
Many Obamacare customers will be insulated from those sharply higher rates because their premiums are subsidized by the federal government.
The subsidies can significantly reduce what a customer directly pays in premiums, with many subsidized customers being able to find a plan for $100 per month or less.
More than 80 percent of Obamacare customers who buy plans on government marketplaces get such subsidies, in the form of tax credits, because they have low or moderate incomes.
But customers who do not qualify for subsidies will get hit with the full impact of the price hikes.
In many states, nonsubsidized customers will have to shell out more than $100 per month more than what they currently pay for their plans.
About 18 million people who do not get health coverage through a job, Medicare or Medicaid are covered by the types of individual health plans whose prices Avalere analyzed.
And about 11 million of those people buy coverage through a government-run exchange.
Avalere's analysis came on the same day that prices for 2018 insurance plans were posted for public view on HealthCare.gov, the federally run exchange that sells individual plans in 36 states.
A federal judge Wednesday rejected a request that he order the Trump administration to immediately resume paying Obamacare insurers key subsidies that the government cut off in recent days.
Judge Vince Chhabria's decision came after a coalition of more than a dozen states last week asked for an emergency order blocking the administration's move to cease paying the insurers.
Chhabria denied that bid two days after holding a hearing in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California and hearing arguments from lawyers for the states and for the Trump administration.
However, the case by the states will continue in that court.
And it could ultimately lead to restoration of the so-called cost-sharing reduction payments.
At the same time, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators is pushing a bill that would restore the payments to insurers.
"Although the case is at an early stage, and although it's a close question, it appears initially that the Trump administration has the stronger legal argument," Chhabria wrote in his decision.
He pointedly noted that despite the claims by the plaintiffs, most states have taken steps that will protect many consumers from the termination of the payments, in the short term.
Those steps will, in many cases, lead to consumers either not paying any more for their health plans next year than they now do, or to actually paying less.
Chhabria was appointed to his seat by President Barack Obama, who had pushed for passage of the Affordable Care Act, as Obamacare is formally known.
At issue are billions of dollars in federal payments that health insurers had received to compensate them for discounts given low-income Obamacare customers for their out-of-pocket health costs.
The discounts are mandated by law and will continue, despite the loss of the reimbursements to insurers for them.
The Trump administration on Oct. 12 said it was cutting off those payments, effective last Friday, because the money for them had not been separately appropriated by Congress.
President Donald Trump for months had threatened to end the payments, which had been made by the Obama administration since 2014, when Obamacare health plans first took effect.
The House in 2014 sued the Obama administration, claiming the reimbursements were illegal given the lack of congressional appropriation.
A federal judge ruled in the House's favor last year, but her decision was stayed by an appeal of her ruling.
The coalition of 18 states and the District of Columbia that sued the Trump administration in an effort to restore the payments has argued that the Affordable Care Act itself authorizes the payments to be made by the government.
Top White House economic advisor Gary Cohn reportedly raised the prospect of hiking the federal gasoline tax on Wednesday, reviving the idea after President Donald Trump raised the issue earlier this year.
Cohn, the director of the National Economic Council, told a group of moderate Democrats and Republicans they would have the opportunity to vote to increase the gas tax when Congress considers an infrastructure package early next year, Politico reported.
Cohn made the remark while discussing elements of the administration's $1.5 trillion tax cut with the Problem Solvers Caucus, according to Politico.
The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the report.
The U.S. government currently applies a charge of 18.4 cents per gallon on retail gasoline.
Revenue from the levy goes to the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for road construction and mass transportation.
The tax has not changed since 1993.
In May, Trump said he was open to raising the gas tax in order to underwrite improvements to the nation's infrastructure.
Then White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer later clarified that Trump was not endorsing a hike but was considering it.
He said an undisclosed group of truckers had asked Trump to consider raising the tax and use the funds to patch up roads.
Shortly after Trump's remarks, White House infrastructure advisor and LeFrak Organization CEO Richard LeFrak told CNBC the president deserved credit for broaching what has historically been "the third rail of politics."
He noted that several states have recently raised their own gas taxes.
The average national gas price stands at $2.45 a gallon.
The cost at the pump has remained relatively low since an oil price downturn in 2014.
Trump on Sen. Flake: He did the right thing in leaving 1:28 PM ET Wed, 25 Oct 2017 | 01:13 President Donald Trump on Wednesday said he is confident that two senators who recently criticized him still plan to vote in favor of a major Republican tax reform bill.
"I believe he's going to do the right thing for the country and vote for tax cuts," Trump said of Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz., during an impromptu press conference on the South Lawn of the White House.
Flake announced on Tuesday that he would retire from the Senate because he said the nation's politics had become too toxic, and he blamed Trump for the "undermining of our democratic norms and ideals."
Asked about another of his critics, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., Trump said he believed that Corker, like Flake, would vote for the sweeping tax-reform package.
"I really believe that Bob Corker is going to do the right thing for the country," Trump said, repeating his phrase verbatim for Corker as he did for Flake.
Corker also made headlines on Wednesday by criticizing the president.
The retiring chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee called Trump an "utterly untruthful" person and predicted that Trump's legacy would be "the debasement" of the United States.
Following Corker's remarks, Trump used Twitter to attack Corker for the rest of the day.
Trump's optimism about the tax-reform package Wednesday even extended to Democrats, some of whom Trump said would vote for the reforms because "if they don't vote for these massive tax cuts, they're going to lose" re-election in 2018.
So far, there are no Democrats signaling that they might support the tax-cut package, which includes a number of provisions like elimination of the estate tax that would benefit only the ultra-rich.
However, one Democrat, Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, attended an event with Trump earlier this year in her home state, where the president touted the benefits of his plan to cut taxes.
The top House tax writer on Wednesday signaled that Congress could still propose changes to a popular retirement savings plan in its tax bill, contradicting an assurance made by President Donald Trump.
At a Christian Science Monitor event, Rep. Kevin Brady said Republicans are "exploring a number of ideas" to "create incentives for Americans to save more and save sooner."
The House is "continuing discussions with the president" in that area, the House Ways and Means Committee chairman said.
"I do have a worry.
Not enough Americans are saving," Brady said at a separate Yahoo Finance conference later in the day.
Brady said Republicans have "asked for ideas how Americans (can) save more and save earlier in their lives."
On Monday, Trump emphatically tweeted that "there will be NO change to your 401(k)."
He called the 401(k) tax benefit a "great and popular middle class tax break that works."
Brady did not specify the possible changes the GOP is considering.
Speaking to reporters Wednesday afternoon, Trump appeared to back off of his Monday tweet.
He called 401(k) plans "very important" and said he did not want a proposal to change them to "go too far."
However, the president said he could use 401(k) changes as a negotiating tool, adding that Brady "knows how important" the retirement plans are.
Brady said at the Yahoo event that he is not bothered by Trump's stance.
"I'm certainly listening to President Trump," he said, adding that Trump has been "incredibly helpful" in putting together the tax reform bill "At the end of the day, we're looking at encouraging people to save more and save early," Brady said.
"We're looking through a number of ideas.
No decisions have been made.
At the end of the day, retirement will be strengthened or it will remain as it is."
Twenty-four percent of American voters mistakenly believe Obamacare has been partially repealed, according to a poll released Wednesday.
And another 15 percent of voters incorrectly believe Obamacare has either been fully repealed, or repealed and replaced with a new health-care law, according to the Morning Consult/Politico survey.
The findings come less a week before open enrollment begins Nov. 1 in Obamacare individual health insurance plans.
Customers on Wednesday could begin window-shopping for those plans, checking out the prices of coverage in their region.
Obamacare advocates have expressed concern that confusion over the law's status, and other factors, will decrease the number of people signing up for health plans that take effect Jan. 1 Part of that confusion stems from efforts since the beginning of 2017 by Republicans in Congress and President Donald Trump to repeal key parts of the Affordable Care Act and replace it with a new law.
Those efforts have repeatedly failed, despite the fact that the GOP, which has promised repeal of Obamacare since it became law in 2010, holds majorities in the Senate and the House.
"We've been campaigning on it for seven years," Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., told the Morning Consult for a report on the poll's results.
"So I think some people believe that we've executed better than we have," said Meadows, who is chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, a group of conservative House members.
The poll, which questioned 1,988 registered voters from last Thursday through Monday, has a margin of error of 2 percentage points.
The Affordable Care Act continues to require most Americans to have some form of health insurance or pay a tax penalty.
The IRS last week said, for the first time, that it will not accept electronically filed income tax returns that do not disclose if the filer had complied with the ACA's mandate to have health coverage.
The agency also said it will suspend processing paper-filed returns that lack that disclosure.
The Morning Consult/Politico poll also found that a broad majority of American voters say that former President Barack Obama not Trump is responsible for the current state of Obamacare, and of the U.S health-care system generally.
Only 20 percent of voters said Trump is responsible for the current state of the Affordable Care Act, the health-care law championed by Obama.
And just 28 percent say Trump is responsible for the state of the American health-care system generally.
In contrast, 67 percent of voters said Obama is responsible for the state of Obamacare.
And 50 percent of them said Obama is responsible for the state of U.S. health care.
Trump last week said that Obamacare price hikes for plans that take effect next year are "the fault of the Democrats" like Obama.
The poll also asked voters their opinions of Trump's decision to cut off billions of dollars of government reimbursement payments to Obamacare insurers.
Those payments compensate insurers for discounts granted to low-income customers for their out-of-pocket health costs.
Obamacare premiums are projected to sharply rise due to cut off of the reimbursements, because insurers still must, by law, offer the discounts to customers even though they are no longer getting the money from the government.
A total of 46 percent of voters in the Morning Consult/Politico survey said they disapproved of Trump's move to end the subsidies.
Another 39 percent approved of the decision.
Only 25 percent of respondents said the cutoff of payments would have a positive effect on themselves or their family.
And 39 percent said it would have a negative impact.
The White House plans to ask the U.S. Congress for a third round of disaster aid in mid-November as the costs continue to pour in for helping rebuild after hurricanes, but Budget Director Mick Mulvaney has told lawmakers he wants to see spending cuts elsewhere.
Mulvaney said the federal government is assessing how much it will cost to help Puerto Rico, Florida, Texas and the U.S. Virgin Islands rebuild after Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria caused massive damages in August and September.
Mulvaney expects the damages to add up to "several tens of billions of dollars," he said in a letter to Senate Leader Mitch McConnell dated Tuesday.
"As we move toward the longer-term issue of rebuilding the impacted areas of our nation, we believe that it is appropriate that the Congress consider reducing spending elsewhere in order to offset what will, again, be a significant amount of unbudgeted spending," Mulvaney said in the letter.
President Donald Trump is slated to receive a briefing on hurricane recovery efforts later on Wednesday in Dallas, where he is attending fundraising events.
The Office of Management and Budget has drawn up a preliminary list of more than $5.5 billion in unspent funds that could be cut, Mulvaney said in a separate letter to lawmakers on Senate and House appropriations committees.
The list includes $4.3 billion from an Energy Department loan program for advanced technology vehicle manufacturing and almost $730 million in funds no longer needed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for projects related to Hurricane Sandy recovery, Mulvaney said.
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is not a fan of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
Schumer directly attacked Mnuchin's claims the Republican tax reform plan will reduce the country's budget deficit.
"I don't know if the man's deliberately lying, but it seems so," Schumer said in a "Politico Money" podcast interview.
"His statements are outlandish, and he seems just to want to, I don't know if I'm allowed to use this word, I think I am, suck up to Trump, flatter Trump.
This man cannot be believed.
And if he used these kinds of arguments at Goldman Sachs, they would have fired him."
Schumer also rejected Mnuchin's prediction of a "significant" market drop if tax reform doesn't pass.
"It's absurd.
No one believes Steven Mnuchin," he said.
"He has lost his credibility because of statements like that.
Wall Street was doing great, it was going up at a dramatic rate before the president even took office.
And it's doing fine now, because the economy's doing well, because corporate profits are way up."
The S&P 500 has rallied 20 percent since the Nov. 8 election through Tuesday.
A Treasury spokesperson sent the following statement in response to a request for comment: "We are surprised to hear the Minority Leader express these comments about the Secretary.
The Secretary is committed to delivering a major middle class tax cut, more competitive business taxes that create jobs and wage growth and a fairer tax system.
This would be a good time for Senator Schumer to stop the obstruction and help hard working Americans get meaningful tax relief."
Read the full Politico story here.
A bipartisan Senate bill that seeks to restore key federal payments to Obamacare insurers "would not substantially change" the number of Americans with health insurance, the Congressional Budget Office said Wednesday.
The Alexander-Murray bill also would cut the federal deficit by $3.8 billion over the next decade, the CBO said in a report analyzing effects of the bill.
And it would result in "slightly lower premiums" that currently projected for many Obamacare plans, according to the CBO, a nonpartisan agency.
The bill was introduced in the Senate on the heels of the Oct. 12 decision by the Trump administration to terminate payments known as cost-sharing reduction reimbursements to Obamacare insurers.
The billions of dollars worth of payments compensate insurance plans for discounts that they must by law offer low-income Obamacare customers for their out-of-pocket health costs.
The CBO earlier projected that killing those payments would lead Obamacare plan premium prices to be 25 percent higher in 2020 than they would have been if the payments continued.
Prices for next year are estimated to be about 20 percent higher than they otherwise would have been because of President Donald Trump's threats since early 2017 to end the CSR payments.
The CBO also had earlier estimated that ending the payments would actually increase the federal deficit by almost $200 billion over the next decade.
The NAACP is warning African-Americans that if they fly on American Airlines they could be subject to discrimination or even unsafe conditions.
American said Wednesday that it was disappointed by the announcement and will invite the civil rights group to meet and talk about the airline.
The NAACP said that for several months it has watched a pattern of disturbing incidents reported by African-American passengers.
Among them was activist Tamika Mallory's claim last week that she was a victim of racial bias when a pilot ordered her off a flight after a dispute with another airline employee over her seat.
The NAACP said that and other recent incidents involving African-Americans "suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias on the part of American Airlines."
In a statement, American Airlines spokeswoman Shannon Gilson said, "We are disappointed to hear about this travel advisory as our team members - a diverse community of gate agents, pilots, and flight attendants - are proud to serve customers of all backgrounds.
Every day American is committed to providing a positive, safe travel experience for everyone who flies with us."
Gibson said American will invite NAACP representatives to meet at the company's headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas, for "a meaningful dialogue" about the airline.
The NAACP highlighted four recent incidents in which African-American passengers said they were treated in a discriminatory way.
The one that attracted the most media attention involved Mallory, an organizer of the Women's March on Washington in January.
Mallory had changed her seat at an airport kiosk, only to be told at the gate that the seat had been assigned to another customer.
Mallory said she was treated disrespectfully by the gate agent another African-American woman and was outraged when a white male pilot asked if she could control herself while on the flight.
After being told she was being kicked off the plane, Mallory called the pilot a racist in a profanity-laced exchange.
She took a later flight home to New York on American, then held a press conference two days later and threatened to take legal action against the airline.
American is the world's largest airline.
The NAACP describes itself as the nation's oldest and largest nonpartisan civil rights organization.
Five years ago, political scholars Norman Ornstein and Thomas Mann published an article with this bracing conclusion: "Let's just say it: The Republicans are the Problem."
That conclusion angered Republican politicians.
It came during their furious 2012 campaign to recapture the U.S. Senate, defeat President Barack Obama and put Mitt Romney in the White House.
Today, Republicans have won both houses of Congress, made Donald Trump president and created an all-GOP government.
The stunning result: More and more Republicans themselves voice the same conclusions as Ornstein and Mann about what their party has become.
On Tuesday, it was Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker, who won re-election in that 2012 campaign.
Now chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Corker characterized the Republican president as a danger to U.S. national security.
Hours later, Sen. Jeff Flake accused Trump of leading Americans toward a future as "fearful, backward-looking people."
The Arizona senator, who won his seat in 2012 and won't run again, challenged GOP colleagues to resist indecency and dishonesty from the White House.
Last week, the previous Republican president, George W. Bush, condemned Trump-era "bigotry conspiracy theories and outright fabrication."
The 2008 Republican presidential nominee, Sen. John McCain, ripped a "half-baked, spurious nationalism cooked up by people who would rather find scapegoats than solve problems."
Two months ago, Romney, who lost to incumbent Obama in 2012, called on Trump to apologize for remarks about a white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
He said the Republican president had "caused racists to rejoice, minorities to weep, and the vast heart of America to mourn."
Instead of apologizing, Trump repeated his remarks.
The seeds of what those Republican leaders denounced were planted decades ago.
Beginning in the 1960s, Republicans seized on turmoil over civil rights, cultural ferment and the Vietnam War to draw conservative whites in the South and elsewhere into a national majority coalition.
Since then, the party has grown increasingly homogeneous as the country has grown more diverse.
Diversity and rising social tolerance among younger and better-educated voters helped Democrats win presidential elections again, with Bill Clinton and Obama.
At the same time, Republicans have grown dependent on older, blue-collar white conservatives aggrieved by declining economic prospects and cultural change.
Before those voters propelled Trump to the Republican nomination, they pushed lawmakers toward the behavior that Ornstein and Mann described when they foreshadowed today's GOP crisis.
"The GOP has become an insurgent outlier in American politics," they wrote in "It's Even Worse Than It Looks," the book from which their 2012 article was drawn.
"It is ideologically extreme; contemptuous of the inherited social and economic policy regime; scornful of compromise; unmoved by conventional understanding of facts, evidence and science; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition."
They concluded, "When one party moves this far from the mainstream, it makes it nearly impossible for the political system to deal constructively with the country's challenges."
This year's failure of an all-GOP government to fulfill promises to repeal and replace Obamacare demonstrated the point.
The irony is that, as more Republicans speak out in agreement, Ornstein and Mann see signs of change.
In their new book with liberal commentator E.J.
Dionne Jr., they cite growing resistance to Trump across the political spectrum.
It can lead, they argue, "to rebuilding the more responsible, forward-looking center-right party that the country needs."
"The popular mobilization and national soul-searching he has aroused could be the occasion for an era of democratic renewal," they write in "One Nation After Trump."
Flake offered a hint on Wednesday after his dramatic speech on the Senate floor.
In an interview on MSNBC, he repeated a formulation Obama used when he struggled with bitter and implacable Republican opposition.
"At some point," the Republican senator said, "this fever will break."
Sen.
Rob Portman told CNBC on Wednesday that fellow Republicans will vote to approve tax reform despite any issues they may have with President Donald Trump.
Portman said he's friends with GOP Sens.
Jeff Flake and Bob Corker, and they said they intend to support a bill that would change the U.S. tax code.
Flake and Corker both of whom won't be seeking re-election next year took their public feuds with Trump to the next level Tuesday even as they joined their GOP Senate colleagues for lunch with the president.
"Both of them are for tax reform," Portman said in a "Squawk Box" interview on Wednesday.
"The notion I've heard this morning that they're somehow going to vote the other way because of their views about the president is crazy," the Ohio Republican continued.
"They're going to do what's best for the people they represent."
Meanwhile, Trump baited Flake and Corker in a series of tweets Wednesday morning.
Instead of focusing on the president's tweets, lawmakers need to work toward cutting taxes and lowering health-care costs, said Portman, who had been discussed as a possible vice presidential pick for Trump during the campaign.
"We shouldn't allow Twitter to distract us from the work we're supposed to be doing."
"You have to work with the president," he added, saying he even worked with Democrat Barack Obama when he was president.
"Our job is to put our head down and start legislating."
Portman said he's not a rubber stamp for Trump, saying he does speak up when he disagrees with the president.
The U.S. Republican tax cut plan that President Donald Trump wants passed by the end of the year is unlikely to trigger a big deficit expansion because it will spur more investment and job growth, House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan told Reuters in an interview on Wednesday.
"We believe that we'll get faster economic growth," Ryan said.
"We don't anticipate a big deficit effect from this tax reform because we will broaden the base and lower the rates, plug loopholes and get faster economic growth.
... Those things combined, we believe, will give us faster growth and a more resilient tax code."
Democrats have painted the tax plan as a gift to the rich and corporate America that would balloon the federal deficit and add to the $20 trillion U.S. national debt.
While the broad parameters of the tax proposal have been made public, detailed legislation has not yet been unveiled.
One of the key elements of the plan is to slash the corporate income tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent.
Ryan said the plan would help U.S. growth.
"The reason we're trying to do it with this timeline is we want to get a 3 percent economy.
We're sort of limping along, growing between 1 and 2 percent, and that is so far underneath our potential as a country," he said.
Ryan previously said he wants the House to pass the tax bill by the Nov. 23 U.S. Thanksgiving holiday.
Securing passage by Congress of his tax plan is important to Trump, who has yet to score a major legislative win since taking office in January amid a steady stream of distractions and Republican infighting.
Ryan predicted that Democratic lawmakers would eventually back the tax plan.
"At the end of the day, I do believe some Democrats will end up voting for this thing," Ryan said.
"It's hard for me to see why no matter what party you're from you'd want to vote against this."
Senate narrowly kills a rule that would've allowed more lawsuits against financial firms 1:25 PM ET Wed, 25 Oct 2017 | 00:56 Banks, credit card issuers and other financial companies will be able to block customers from banding together to sue over disputes, after the U.S. Senate on Tuesday narrowly killed a rule banning the firms from using "forced arbitration" clauses.
Republican Vice President Mike Pence appeared on the Senate floor at 10:11 p.m. EDT (0211 GMT) to cast the tie-breaking vote as the chamber's president and approve the most significant roll-back of Obama-era financial policy since President Donald Trump took office vowing to loosen the leash on Wall Street.
The final count was 51 to 50.
The Republican-dominated House of Representatives has already passed the resolution repealing the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) rule released in July.
The resolution also bars regulators from instituting a similar ban in the future.
After a signature from Trump, expected soon, the resolution will abruptly end a years-long fight that has included multiple federal regulators, consumer advocacy groups, and financial lobbyists.
CFPB Director Richard Cordray, a Democrat appointed by former President Barack Obama, rarely comments on congressional action but on Tuesday night said, "Wall Street won and ordinary people lost."
"This vote means the courtroom doors will remain closed for groups of people seeking justice and relief when they are wronged by a company," he added.
Customers must agree to the clauses as a condition of opening accounts, saying they will take any disputes to closed-door arbitration instead of joining class-action lawsuits, where complainants band together to share litigation costs.
The clauses are used for nearly every U.S. consumer product and service since the Supreme Court ruled them legal in 2011.
Victims of the Equifax hack were outraged last month when the company included forced arbitration fine print in offering them free credit monitoring.
The company later removed the clauses.
At the same time, Wells Fargo customers whose identities were used in last year's phony accounts scandal have had difficulty sueing the bank because they are bound by arbitration clauses in contracts they signed for legitimate accounts.
The CFPB rule, set to go into effect next spring, was not retroactive and would not have helped Equifax or Wells customers.
Members of Trump's administration have relentlessly assailed the regulation, and on Monday the Treasury Department laid out arguments against it in a special report.
Acting Comptroller of the Currency Keith Norieka said on Tuesday the Senate's action stopped a rule "that would have likely increased the cost of credit for hardworking Americans and made it more difficult for small community banks to resolve differences with their customers."
Meanwhile, major bank lobbying groups who sued last month to block the rule cheered the resolution's passage.
One of the groups, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said Congress had reined in the "overgrown and unaccountable" CFPB, an independent agency created to protect individuals' finances that conservatives say consistently reaches beyond its authority in its rulemaking.
Critics of the rule had said class actions only benefit trial lawyers and arbitration generally wins larger settlement awards for customers.
Supporters said forced arbitration harms customers by putting companies in control of the process and taking away the right to sue enshrined in the U.S. Constitution.
The CFPB created its rule after conducting a five-year study that found customers struggle to have banks open arbitration cases about their complaints, but that those few cases have led to slightly higher individual awards than class actions.
"The Senate today prevented a cash grab that would have transferred wealth from consumers to the pockets of wealthy attorneys," said Ted Frank, director of the center for class-action fairness at the free-market group Competitive Enterprise Institute.
Ohio Senator Sherrod Brown, the most senior Democrat on the Banking Committee, meanwhile, said Tuesday's vote "will make the rich richer, and the powerful more powerful."
Airlines get ready for new US security rules 8:57 AM ET Wed, 25 Oct 2017 | 00:40 New security measures including stricter passenger screening take effect on Thursday on all U.S.-bound flights to comply with government requirements designed to avoid an in-cabin ban on laptops, airlines said.
Airlines contacted by Reuters said the new measures could include short security interviews with passengers at check-in or the boarding gate, sparking concerns over flight delays and extended processing time.
They will affect 325,000 airline passengers on about 2,000 commercial flights arriving daily in the United States, on 180 airlines from 280 airports in 105 countries.
The United States announced the new rules in June to end its restrictions on carry-on electronic devices on planes coming from 10 airports in eight countries in the Middle East and North Africa in response to unspecified security threats.
Those restrictions were lifted in July, but the Trump administration said it could reimpose measures on a case by case basis if airlines and airports did not boost security.
European and U.S. officials said at the time that airlines had 120 days to comply with the measures, including increased passenger screening.
The 120-day deadline is Thursday.
Airlines had until late July to expand explosive trace detection testing.
"We see this as a big issue for China Airlines," Steve Chang, senior vice president of the Taiwanese firm told reporters on Wednesday, adding the airline was trying to consult with the American Institute in the country over the issue.
Korean Airlines, South Korea's flagship carrier, also said it had a lot of concerns with the new measures.
"We are asking customers to show up at the airport early ...
It's just inconvenient for the passengers," President and Chief Operating Officer Walter Cho told Reuters in Taipei.
Lufthansa said on Tuesday the measures would be in place by Thursday and travelers could face short interviews at check-in or at the gate.
Economy passengers on Lufthansa's Swiss airline have been asked to check in at least 90 minutes before departure.
Cathay Pacific Airways said it would suspend in-town check-in and self bag-drop services for passengers booked on direct flights to the United States.
The airline said passengers would also have short security interviews and it has advised travelers to arrive three hours before departure.
Singapore Airlines said the security checks could include inspections of personal electronic devices as well as security questioning during check-in and boarding.
Airlines for America, a U.S. trade group, said the changes "are complex security measures" but praised U.S. officials for giving airlines flexibility in meeting the new rules.
Alexandre de Juniac, CEO of the International Air Transport Association, said the industry understood security threats to aviation were made regularly but in this case, the U.S. government had not shared any specific dangers before changing the rules.
"What we have seen is very strange," he told reporters in Taipei.
"Unilateral measures announced without any prior consultation... That is something that is very concerning and disturbing."
At their annual meeting in Taipei, Association of Asia Pacific Airlines (AAPA) members passed a resolution calling for security measures to be risk-based, outcome-focused and proportionate to the probable threat.
"Unilateral actions taken by individual governments reacting to emerging threats may result in unnecessary disruption or lead to unintended safety consequences," said the members.
AAPA includes most large Asian airlines but not mainland Chinese carriers.
"The risk is other countries make similar demands," AAPA Director General Andrew Herdman said.
U.S. authorities in June also increased security around aircraft and in passenger areas, and other places where travelers can be cleared by U.S. officials before they depart.
A Transportation Security Administration (TSA) spokeswoman declined to discuss the specific changes but said, "the United States continues to work with our partners to raise the baseline of global aviation security and keep the entire traveling public safe."
The TSA said in July it was imposing new security rules requiring U.S. domestic airline travelers to remove all electronic items larger than mobile phones such as tablets, e-readers and video game consoles from carry-on baggage for screening.
Fewer than a third of Americans support Donald Trump's tax-cut plan, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll released on Tuesday, as the U.S. president went to Capitol Hill looking for Republican backing for his proposal to slash tax rates for individuals and companies.
As the 2018 midterm congressional election campaigns grow nearer, the poll found that more than two-thirds of registered voters said reducing the U.S. federal budget deficit is more important than cutting taxes for the wealthy or for corporations.
Trump's plan would balloon the deficit and add to the $20 trillion national debt, according to critics and independent analysts, but Republicans say the tax cuts proposed in the plan would be offset by economic growth that would generate new tax revenue.
Among Republicans surveyed, 63 percent said deficit reduction should take priority over tax cuts for corporations, while 75 percent said deficit reduction should take priority over tax cuts for the wealthy.
Democrats oppose Trump's plan, unveiled on Sept. 27, and say it is unfair to the poor and the working class.
The plan is still only a nine-page "framework."
It was drafted in secret by Trump administration and congressional leaders.
Formal legislation is in development.
Congressional leaders and Trump are trying to lock in support for the plan from rank-and-file Republicans, who were uninvolved in the framework drafting process.
Trump, who has yet to score a major legislative win since taking office in January, wants his plan to become law before year's end, a timeframe that some policy analysts doubt is realistic.
More than half of the adults surveyed in the poll agreed that "cutting taxes for the poor is more important than reducing the federal deficit," with 68 percent of Democrats and 47 percent of Republicans in accord with that statement, the poll showed.
The Oct. 20-23 poll found that only 15 percent of registered voters said Republicans in Congress should prioritize tax reform over other issues.
About a quarter of those polled, including 23 percent of Democrats and 30 percent of Republicans, agreed that Congress should continue working on a healthcare bill.
Of those adults who said they had heard of the "tax reform plan recently proposed by congressional Republicans," just 28 percent said they support it, while 41 percent said they oppose it and another 31 percent said they do not know.
The poll found opinions on Trump's plan were sharply divided along party lines, with 56 percent of Republicans and just 9 percent of Democrats supporting it.
Of those who had heard of the plan, 14 percent said it would cut their taxes, while 30 percent said it would increase their taxes.
Another 35 percent said their taxes would not change and 20 percent said they did not know how it would impact them.
The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English in all 50 states.
It gathered responses from 1,862 people, including 1,079 people who said they were aware of the Republican tax plan.
It has a credibility interval, a measure of accuracy, of 3 percentage points.
The outline of a tax plan unveiled in September would cut the corporate income tax rate to 20 percent, from 35 percent, collapse individual income tax brackets from seven to three, with tax rates of 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent, and double the standard deduction to $12,000 for individuals and to $24,000 for married couples filing jointly.
But the hardest decisions on how to mitigate the costs of the proposal have yet to be made.
The blueprint, as unveiled, would cost the Treasury more than $2 trillion over a decade, according to estimates by tax-writing experts.
Now Congress must find a way to force those proposals into a $1.5 trillion budget hole.
Disagreements on how to do that have begun spilling into public view.
In addition to the dispute over the deduction for state and local taxes, Mr. Trump and the Houses chief tax writer, Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, have collided over the issue of retirement savings, another delicate issue.
Republicans hope that by the end of the year, they will be able to deliver to Mr. Trump the first significant revamping of the tax code since the Reagan administration, a feat that would show that unified Republican government can take on a big challenge and produce success.
But overhauling the tax code is an exceedingly difficult task, as evidenced by the decades that have passed since it was last achieved.
And in the first year of Mr. Trumps presidency, Republican lawmakers already failed in their long-promised quest to repeal the Affordable Care Act, an outcome that makes the tax effort even more critical to the partys fortunes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
The budget resolution approved Thursday, for the 2018 fiscal year, ostensibly maps out spending and revenue levels for the federal government.
But its passage is meaningful largely because of the special procedures that it unlocks.
The budget measure contains parliamentary language that will shield a tax bill from a Democratic filibuster in the Senate, allowing it to pass with the approval of only 50 senators in a chamber where Republicans hold 52 seats.
It also could pave the way for lawmakers to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil and gas drilling.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In order to allow the tax effort to move along quickly, Republicans in the House agreed to pass the budget plan that the Senate approved last week.
The House had passed its own budget measure earlier this month, but by agreeing to the Senate plan rather than trying to meld the two documents, the timeline for passing a tax measure can be sped up.
In the end, the eagerness to tackle the tax overhaul ended up trumping other matters including fiscal concerns that have been a central issue for many conservative Republicans.
For one thing, the Houses previous budget blueprint would have called for a more aggressive approach on cutting spending.
In addition to laying the groundwork for a tax bill, the Houses plan would have instructed committees to come up with legislation that would produce about $200 billion in savings.
The Houses plan also called for a tax overhaul that would not add to the deficit.
House Republicans were asked to vote for a budget that nobody believes in so that we have the chance to vote for a tax bill that nobodys read, Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida, complained this week.
Representative Diane Black, Republican of Tennessee and the chairwoman of the House Budget Committee, acknowledged that taking up the Senate plan was not an ideal outcome.
But she talked up the promise of overhauling taxes.
Put simply, we have the opportunity to make history by reforming our tax system for the first time in nearly three decades, she said.
President Trump is with us on this, and I agree that we must move quickly.
Democrats continued their drumbeat against the tax effort, warning that Republicans were preparing to cut taxes for the rich.
Representative John Yarmuth of Kentucky, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said the budget measure was not a real effort at responsible budgeting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is a means to an end, Mr. Yarmuth said, a single-minded plan to make it easier to enact tax cuts for the wealthy and big corporations regardless of the consequences for everyone else.
Mr. Strauss dash for the exits followed the retirement announcements of Mr. Flake, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee and Representatives Ileana Ros-Lehtinen of Florida, Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, Pat Tiberi of Ohio and Dave Reichert of Washington State all members of the Republican establishment.
Many of those who remain will have to accommodate the president to survive primaries from the pro-Trump right.
Already, in the high-profile campaigns of 2017 governor races in Virginia and New Jersey and a special Senate race in Alabama Republican candidates are mirroring Mr. Trumps racially tinged campaign tactics.
And Republican officials are putting up with the sort of incendiary candidacy that a party more devoted to nurturing a tolerant image might have rejected.
The reason?
Many of their voters prefer the Trump way.
Were not an element, said Laura Ingraham, a pro-Trump talk show host.
Were the party.
Ms. Ingraham, the author of a new book, Billionaire at the Barricades, on the populist uprising that helped elect Mr. Trump, said the conservatism of market-oriented internationalism simply has little mass appeal.
Theres no constituency for open borders, endless war and these international trade deals that are skewed against the United States, she said.
As for the limited government pitch that defined Mr. Flakes career, Stephen K. Bannon, the presidents former chief strategist, scoffed.
This thing theyve got today doesnt work, it doesnt move with urgency, said Mr. Bannon, who is now orchestrating an effort to defeat Republicans deemed insufficiently loyal to Mr. Trumps agenda.
Its very nice.
But its a theoretical exercise.
It cant win national elections.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even some of the presidents detractors on the right believe that the party base will stick with him because they like his agenda.
We have a leader who has a personality disorder, said former Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, but hes done what he actually told the people he was going to do, and theyre not going to abandon him.
This grass-roots loyalty is why no prominent Republicans on the ballot next year have broken with Mr. Trump only lame-duck lawmakers and Republicans out of office, such as former President George W. Bush, have been harshly critical of him.
At the moment, congressional Republicans and Mr. Trump are trying to make common cause of an overhaul of the tax code because they see it as something of a temporary cure-all.
A bill-signing ceremony on taxes would hand lawmakers something to run on next year and the president a much-needed accomplishment.
It stops the bleeding, said Senator Lindsey Graham, of South Carolina.
But even that holds risks.
A tax cut that skews heavily toward corporations and the rich would hardly dislodge the populist view of a Republican establishment beholden to its donors.
I dont think the rank-and-file Republican believes that corporations are people, said Sam Nunberg, a former adviser to the Trump campaign who has also worked with Mr. Bannon.
He was mimicking a Mitt Romney quote that earned Mr. Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, ridicule for being out of touch.
On Wednesday, Mr. Trump painted a rosy picture of the party.
We have, actually, great unity in the Republican Party, he told reporters before leaving for a fund-raiser in Texas.
But even as Mr. Trump won repeated standing ovations from Senate Republicans on Tuesday when he visited their weekly lunch at the Capitol, the partys lingering tensions were also on display.
Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas, a longtime member of the Agriculture Committee, expressed concern about whether Mr. Trump would pull out of the North American Free Trade Agreement, according to a Republican present at the luncheon.
Photo Less than an hour after Mr. Trump left the Capitol, Mr. Flake was on the Senate floor delivering a 17-minute excoriation of the Trump era.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story How aggressively the president pursues his platform on trade and immigration restrictionism could test how strong his grip is on Congress.
For now, though, the vision for a more populist-nationalist party sketched out by Mr. Bannon is being won as much through intimidation as through actual purges in Republican primaries.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
What Mr. Bannon is trying to do and what Mr. Flakes retirement could further is strike fear in the hearts of Republicans who do not display enough enthusiasm for the nationalism that Mr. Trump ran on.
This should be a warning shot to any other Never Trumper in the Senate today: Your time is up, Mr. Surabian said.
That is playing out not only in the examples of Mr. Flake and Mr. Corker.
In Nevada and Mississippi, Senators Dean Heller and Roger Wicker have responded to Trump-inspired primary threats by taking steps to emphasize their fealty to Mr. Trump.
On Wednesday, Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No.
2 Republican in the Senate, endorsed former Judge Roy S. Moore in the Alabama Senate race, praising Mr. Moore, a caustic social conservative, as a tireless advocate led by principle rather than politics.
Mr. Cornyn is the highest ranking Republican to formally back Mr. Moore.
But accommodation is not giving pause to would-be rivals.
Danny Tarkanian, Mr. Hellers Republican challenger, said the conversation among activists was no longer dominated by finding the most conservative candidates.
The talk I hear is, Hey, whos going to support Trumps America First policies, said Mr. Tarkanian, citing trade, military intervention and what he described as worrying more about refugees from other countries than our own people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the House, some lawmakers who have previously spoken out against Mr. Trump, such as Representative Martha Roby, Republican of Alabama, are now working to repair their relationship with the White House.
The message theyre sending is: The way to survive is by accommodating him, changing their tone and professing loyalty to Trump, said William Kristol, the former editor of The Weekly Standard and a vociferous Trump critic.
The two governors races this year also illustrate Mr. Trumps influence in the party.
In Virginia and New Jersey, the establishment-aligned Republican nominees for governor, Ed Gillespie and Kim Guadagno, are airing controversial ads on immigration to both stir their base and win over some independents concerned about crimes committed by those in the country illegally.
Mr. Gillespie, a veteran Washington lobbyist who served in George W. Bushs White House, is also running ads extolling his support for Confederate statues.
In the Senate, Republicans have made clear that they will welcome Mr. Moore of Alabama who has a decades-long history of making inflammatory comments about gays, African-Americans and Muslims to their ranks should he win the special election in December to fill the seat left vacant by Jeff Sessions, now the attorney general.
A handful of conservative writers have expressed concern about the message that tolerating Mr. Moore sends, but no high-profile lawmaker has followed suit, and a pair of Republican senators are even hosting a fund-raiser for him next month in Washington.
And in Colorado, former Representative Tom Tancredo, who was shunned by the Bush-era Republican Party for his harsh anti-immigration views, is considering a comeback bid for governor in 2018.
Whether Mr. Trump permanently realigns the party around his style and platform may depend on how much he remains true to what could be called Trumpism.
Mr. Graham believes that the president is not as wedded to some of his nationalist policies as his supporters want to believe.
The best thing that could happen to Trump and the future of the Republican Party is for Trump to fix a broken immigration system, Mr. Graham said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story By calling last week to offer his support to a handful of Republican senators that Mr. Bannon had named as potential targets, the president demonstrated he would not blindly follow his former adviser.
Establishment Republicans are attempting to convince Mr. Trump that if you join with Bannon, you cut your own throat, Mr. Graham said, because it could lead to an impeachment effort by a Democratic-controlled Congress.
But these arguments cause the early Trump enthusiasts only to roll their eyes.
The party establishment, these Trump backers say, wants to govern as if the election never happened.
They still think the election was about Trumps personality, Ms. Ingraham said.
It wasnt.
It was his ideas.
To me, the only way to stop this is to defeat the budget tomorrow, Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, said on Wednesday.
Once the budget passes, they hold all the cards.
Theyre asking us to vote on the budget for a tax bill they havent shown us on a promise that somehow its going to be fair, even though theyre talking about knocking out SALT, Mr. King said.
I dont see how anyone from those districts can vote for the budget under that, even if they promise us something.
The challenge facing Republicans is trying to mitigate the revenue-losing effects of cutting tax rates, particularly Mr. Trumps push to reduce the corporate rate to 20 percent from 35 percent, which the White House says is nonnegotiable.
The budget resolution that is supposed to win final approval on Thursday would allow for $1.5 trillion in additional deficits from tax cuts over the next decade, but the proposed tax cuts already revealed would cost well over $2 trillion.
Photo Cutting rates unifies Republicans.
Finding offsets, either by eliminating tax deductions or employing accounting tricks, divides them.
On Wednesday, Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, acknowledged a long list of still-unresolved issues in the Houses draft bill, which is to be released Nov. 1.
They included where to place the income limits for various tax brackets, whether to maintain or cut tax rates on top earners, and the fate of several critical components of the revamped corporate code.
Two issues in dispute flared up publicly: changes to retirement savings and to individuals ability to deduct their state and local taxes.
Mr. Brady seemed to defend a proposal to drastically lower the cap on tax-free retirement account contributions.
He indicated that there were better ways to encourage the bulk of workers to save, even after Mr. Trump declared on Monday that there will be NO change to your 401(k).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Right now, we are not a nation of savers, Mr. Brady said at a breakfast convened by The Christian Science Monitor, adding: We think in tax reform we can create incentives for Americans to save more and save sooner.
Privately, though, a member of House leadership assured lobbyists on Wednesday that retirement account limits would not be touched in the draft bill.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
House Republicans have been considering sharply reducing the amount that Americans are allowed to save, before taxes, in 401(k) retirement plans to $2,400 a year, from the current $18,000, or $24,000 for workers who are over 50.
Lowering the cap would be unlikely to encourage more savings, research suggests, but it would amount to an accounting maneuver that would help Republicans make up some of the lost revenue from large cuts to business tax rates.
Money in such retirement accounts is taxed when it is withdrawn.
By taxing most deposits immediately, Republicans would push future tax revenue into the 10-year budget window they are now working in.
Mr. Trump was not giving up.
He told reporters that he wanted to quickly end speculation because 401(k)s, to me, are very important.
Asked whether he might negotiate over the changes, he replied, maybe well use it as negotiating, then added that Mr. Brady knew how critical the retirement accounts were.
Representative David Schweikert, Republican of Arizona and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, said the issue of tax rules for retirement savings was far more complicated than Mr. Trumps declaration.
Photo Were the ones writing the bill, Mr. Schweikert said.
At some point, he gets to agree or veto.
And ultimately, we have to make the math work.
Mr. Brady also said Republican leaders were seeking a deal on the state and local tax deduction, which they had targeted for elimination.
Mr. Brady seemed to suggest the deal could focus on maintaining deductions for property taxes, but not for income or sales taxes.
That would reduce the savings from eliminating the deduction to about $1.3 trillion over 10 years, from an estimated $1.9 trillion over 10 years for eliminating the deduction entirely, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation.
But it may be the key to passing the budget resolution, which appears in jeopardy if Republicans from high-tax states are not pacified.
A protracted fight over taxes would be particularly rough on a Republican Party already fraying on the edges.
Mr. Trump is feuding with two Republican senators who plan to retire, Jeff Flake of Arizona and Bob Corker of Tennessee, as part of a growing rift between old-guard conservatives and Mr. Trumps new-wave populists in Washington.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the face of those divides, Republican leaders aim to deliver a completed tax bill to Mr. Trumps desk by Christmas.
The stakes are rising by the day, as Republican donors and voters worry about the party advancing the legislative priorities it has long espoused.
A failure on taxes, after the Republicans did not succeed in repealing the Affordable Care Act, could jeopardize its congressional majorities in the 2018 midterms.
The Republicans are finally figuring out if they dont pass this, the political consequences are going to be catastrophic, said Stephen Moore, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation who is advising Mr. Trump on tax policy.
The attitude of the conservative base is, If they dont do this, theyre worthless.
Finding common ground will only get more difficult as the effects of specific tax changes on constituents become clearer.
Polling suggests Republican voters subscribe less to the tax cut philosophy than their elected representatives.
A report this week from the Pew Research Center, based on polling in August, found that Republicans were not especially unified in support of tax cuts, said Carroll Doherty, the centers director of political research.
A September poll from the online survey company SurveyMonkey found that three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents approve of cutting corporate taxes, which is the centerpiece of the tax plan.
But that poll, and a related one in October, found a divide: Republican voters who approve of Mr. Trump were far more likely to approve of corporate tax cuts and to say that they believe their individual taxes will fall next year than those who have turned against the president.
The divisions in the party do not, at this point, appear to imperil the tax-cutting effort.
Mr. Corker, an outspoken deficit hawk, gave his blessing to parliamentary language that would allow the tax bill to add $1.5 trillion to federal deficits, though he made clear he could still vote against the final legislation.
And Mr. Flake diatribe on Tuesday aside is still viewed as a likely yes on whatever tax bill makes it to the Senate floor, provided it survives several weeks of political kicking and screaming.
It is often said that children are watching, he said.
Well, they are.
And what are we going to do about that?
When the next generation asks us, Why didnt you do something?
Why didnt you speak up?
What are we going to say?
Without mentioning Mr. Trump by name, Mr. Flake, 54, took direct aim at the presidents policies, notably his isolationist tendencies, but also his behavior and that of his aides.
In his time in Washington, Mr. Flake embodied an old-line conservatism.
He avidly pitched smaller government, spending cuts and an end to home-district pork-barrel projects, but also supported free trade, engagement with the world and an openness to immigration.
Those positions stood in marked contrast to Mr. Trumps inward-looking, anti-immigration nationalism.
The senator had already touched on such themes in a book he published in August, Conscience of a Conservative, that was highly critical of the president.
In his speech, he was at turns somber and passionate.
We must stop pretending that the degradation of our politics and the conduct of some in our executive branch are normal, Mr. Flake said.
They are not normal.
Reckless, outrageous and undignified behavior has become excused and countenanced as telling it like it is when it is actually just reckless, outrageous and undignified.
And when such behavior emanates from the top of our government, it is something else.
It is dangerous to a democracy.
As he spoke, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, Mr. McCain and Mr. Corker sat listening on the Senate floor.
Mr. Corker had jousted with the president only hours before.
Isnt it sad that lightweight Senator Bob Corker, who couldnt get re-elected in the Great State of Tennessee, will now fight Tax Cuts plus!
Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday morning, fearing that Mr. Corkers vow to oppose any tax plan that increases the federal debt could imperil his tax push.
Mr. Corker snapped back, Same untruths from an utterly untruthful president.
I dont know why he lowers himself to such a low, low standard and is debasing our country, Mr. Corker said in a CNN interview, suggesting that he would soon convene hearings to examine the ways Mr. Trump purposely has been breaking down relationships around the world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its unfortunate that our nation finds itself in this place, he added.
After the speech, Mr. McConnell praised Mr. Flake and said he regretted the senators decision to leave.
We have just witnessed a speech from a very fine man, a man who clearly brings high principles to the office every day, the leader said.
But privately, some Republicans were growing angry at the displays of disunity from Senators Flake and Corker as the party was trying to come together to pass a major overhaul of the tax code.
Only minutes before Mr. Flakes address, the president had been in the Capitol for lunch with Senate Republicans and a discussion about tax reform.
Read Jeff Flakes Speech The announcement did please Republican officials in Arizona and Washington, who believe that they now have a better chance at retaining the seat.
Mr. Flakes private polling had steadily become worse this year as he intensified his criticism of Mr. Trump.
His firm stand against the president had alienated Republican voters, but his long, conservative track record dissuaded Democratic voters in the state from coming to his side.
One poll showed he had just an 18 percent approval rating among Arizona residents, and a survey that the senator conducted last month led some of his own allies to conclude that he could not win a Republican primary, according to multiple officials directly familiar with the situation in the weeks leading up to Tuesdays speech.
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that she had not spoken with Mr. Trump about the senators decision but that she was not lamenting the announcement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Based on previous statements and certainly based on the lack of support that he has from the people of Arizona, its probably a good move, she said.
She said history would remember Mr. Trump for his achievements and the strong economy that he was presiding over, not some petty comments from Senator Corker and Senator Flake.
At home in Arizona, Mr. Flake was facing threats from both the right and the left.
His main primary challenger, Kelli Ward, an osteopathic physician and a former state senator who ran unsuccessfully against Mr. McCain last year, kicked off her campaign last week with two conservative luminaries Laura Ingraham, the radio host, and Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trumps former chief strategist at her side.
Steve Bannon adds another scalp to his collection, said Andy Surabian, a senior adviser to the Great America Alliance, a Bannon-aligned group that has endorsed Ms. Ward.
This is a direct result of the political pressure put on Jeff Flake over the last several months.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Tuesday, Breitbart News, the website that Mr. Bannon oversees, reported his reaction to Mr. Flakes announcement as defiant: Our movement will defeat you in primaries or force you to retire.
Now, a race that had been expected to fall along familiar establishment-versus-insurgent lines, with Mr. Flake pitted against Ms. Ward, has been blown wide open.
Mainstream Republicans believe that Ms. Ward will be overwhelmed by a flood of other candidates.
Representative Paul Gosar, a conservative firebrand, and former Gov.
Jan Brewer, for example, could enter the race.
But there is considerable uncertainty among establishment Republicans, too.
Most party leaders suggest Representative Martha McSally, a former Air Force pilot, would be their most formidable contender to take on Representative Kyrsten Sinema, the likely Democratic nominee.
But some Republicans privately say the safer course is for Ms. McSally to wait for the ailing Mr. McCain to vacate the seat and eventually ascend to the Senate via appointment.
To many conservatives who support Mr. Trump, Mr. Flake was an especially desirable target.
Few in the Senate had spoken more candidly about their misgivings with Mr. Trump, first as a candidate and then as president.
He had particularly elicited conservatives ire with his book, in which he equated Republicans acceptance of Mr. Trump as their nominee to a Faustian bargain.
Mr. Trump himself encouraged a primary challenge to Mr. Flake, calling him a non-factor and WEAK on borders, while lauding Ms. Ward on Twitter.
What Mr. Flakes retirement made clear, though, was something potentially much more significant than an individual senators standing in the angry and restless conservative movement.
It suggested that under Mr. Trump, the Republican Party has little room for voices that dissent from the presidents crass style of politics and his polarizing agenda.
Mr. Flakes decision to step down was, in a sense, a tacit admission that crossing the president had put him in political peril.
But in an interview in Phoenix this month, he said he had no regrets and always knew that crossing the president would be dangerous politically.
He reiterated that sentiment on the Senate floor on Tuesday.
Were not here to simply mark time, the senator said.
Sustained incumbency is certainly not the point of seeking office, and there are times when we must risk our careers in favor of our principles.
Now is such a time.
Photo The political journalist Mark Halperin built an industry on tracking the fortunes of the flawed characters he followed through campaign seasons.
He gleefully chronicled who was up and who was down in his best-selling books and television coverage and made himself into one of the most prominent and most highly remunerated journalists in the country.
The drama and intrigue came to him on Wednesday night, when CNN posted a detailed report that he had sexually harassed women years ago, when he worked as the director of political coverage at ABC News.
The CNN report included interviews with five women it did not identify who said that Mr. Halperin had made unwanted sexual advances against them.
On Thursday morning, MSNBC, the cable network where he is a political analyst and appears frequently on the influential show Morning Joe, announced that he would no longer be a contributor.
In a statement, an MSNBC spokesman said, We find the story and the allegations very troubling.
Mark Halperin is leaving his role as a contributor until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Through a spokesman, Mr. Halperin, issued the following statement: During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me.
I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain.
For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize.
Under the circumstances, Im going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
An ABC spokesman said, Mark left ABC News over a decade ago, and no complaints were filed during his tenure.
The Trump administration, they added, would work with Congress to secure money to combat opioids in a year-end spending package, including through the Public Health Emergency Fund.
They outlined Mr. Trumps announcement on condition of anonymity to avoid pre-empting his formal speech.
The president in August called the opioid crisis a national emergency.
But he did not sign a formal declaration designating it as such, allowing the prospect to languish amid resistance in his administration about making an open-ended commitment of federal funds to deal with a crisis that has shown no signs of abating.
The crisis has claimed tens of thousands of lives a death rate that one administration official noted Thursday rivals the number of Americans killed during the Vietnam War.
Beyond the lack of funding, it is not clear how much impact the public health declaration will have in the short term, given that Mr. Trump has yet to name central players who would carry it out, including a drug czar to steer a broader strategy on opioids and a secretary of Health and Human Services who would tailor policies and identify funding streams.
Representative Tom Marino, the Pennsylvania Republican whom Mr. Trump had named to head his Office of National Drug Control Policy, withdrew last week after reports that he did the bidding of the pharmaceutical industry in weakening law enforcements ability to curb drug sales in efforts to block black-market sales of opioids.
The White House has yet to announce a new candidate.
And Tom Price resigned last month as health secretary after it was revealed he was flying on private jets paid for with taxpayer dollars; a nominee has not been named for that post either.
But proponents, including some anti-addiction groups and physicians, argue Mr. Trumps action is an important symbolic step that would raise awareness and spark a new sense of urgency to deal with the opioid scourge.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The administration officials said a public health emergency declaration would quickly lead to crucial changes, including the potential to secure federal grant money and the expansion of access to telemedicine services, which would broaden the reach of medical treatment to rural areas ravaged by opioid use and where doctors are often in short supply.
Mr. Trumps promises to focus on the opioid crisis helped propel him to victory in New Hampshires primary last year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As president, he formed an opioid commission in March and installed at the helm Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, a rival for the Republican nomination who had championed the issue during the 2016 race.
In July, the commission recommended that the president declare a national emergency either under the Stafford Act, which would have prompted the allocation of Federal Emergency Management Agency funds, or the Public Health Service Act, the option Mr. Trump has chosen.
Mr. Price had ruled out the idea of a national emergency, in part because of concerns about the potentially exorbitant costs to the federal government.
Still, Mr. Trump surprised his advisers by telling reporters soon after his commissions report that he was ready to take just such a step.
There have been few major actions to match those words, even as administration officials have worked feverishly behind the scenes to come to agreement on an opioid policy that would reflect the presidents position.
In the meantime, members of Mr. Trumps opioid commission and lawmakers in both parties had grown impatient for action.
On Wednesday, a group of Democrats led by Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan released a letter they wrote to the president asking him to allow the government to negotiate lower prices for naloxone, a drug that quickly counteracts the effects of opioid overdoses.
Declaring a state of emergency would give the secretary of Health and Human Services the power to seek such price reductions, they said.
Mr. Christie commended the president on Thursday for what he called bold action to address the opioid crisis, and said the commission would put forth a comprehensive plan next week.
The nomination of an untraditional candidate from outside the partys mainstream turned the 2016 election into a stress test for Republican partisanship, and it passed with flying colors, Theodoridis wrote.
Republicans identify, at a deep psychological level, more strongly with their party than do Democrats, according to Theodoridis: The evidence is rather clear that the modern hyper-polarization is far more characterized by tribal division than by ideological distance.
The real story seems to be the growing us-versus-them, in-group/out-group dynamic.
If you look at what we call thermometer scores, which have respondents rate their feelings about groups from cold to warm, zero degrees to 100 degrees, the average rating of the other party has dropped from nearly 50 degrees in the early 1980s to temperatures in the 30s today.
Theodoridis summed up the conclusions he and his colleagues reached in a blog post in Scientific American in November 2016: Partisanship for many Americans today takes the form of a visceral, even subconscious, attachment to a party group.
Our party becomes a part of our self-concept in deep and meaningful ways.
In other words, the assumption that many Republican voters would be repelled by Donald Trump turned out to be wrong; instead party loyalty a visceral, even subconscious, attachment takes precedence.
In fact, as the political scientists Leonie Huddy, Lilliana Mason and Lene Aare argue in an article in American Political Science Review, the most powerful form of partisanship is not principled, ideological commitment to conservative or liberal policies, but expressive partisanship, which is more of a gut commitment: A subjective sense of belonging to a group that is internalized to varying degrees, resulting in individual differences in identity strength, a desire to positively distinguish the group from others, and the development of ingroup bias.
Moreover, once identified with a group or, in this instance, a political party, members are motivated to protect and advance the partys status and electoral dominance as a way to maintain their partys positive distinctiveness.
Traditionally, political scientists have measured partisanship by asking voters the following questions: Generally speaking, do you usually think of yourself as a Republican, a Democrat, an Independent, or what?
Those who say Republican or Democrat are then asked Would you call yourself a strong Republican/Democrat or a not very strong Republican/Democrat?
Independents are asked Do you think of yourself as closer to the Republican or Democratic Party?
Respondents are then ranked on a seven point scale from strong Democrat to strong Republican.
Political scientists measure expressive partisanship by looking at responses to more subjective questions, including How important is being a Democrat or Republican to you?, How well does the term Democrat or Republican describe you?
and When talking about Democrats or Republicans, how often do you use we instead of they?
It turns out, according to Huddy, Mason and Aare, that those who are strong partisans on the basis of emotional and expressive links to their parties feel angrier when threatened with electoral loss and more positive when reassured of victory.
In contrast, those who hold a strong and ideologically consistent position on issues are no more aroused emotionally than others by party threats or reassurances.
These expressive partisans also feel increased schadenfreude, a complex positive emotion, when they read about bad things happening to or reflecting poorly on a political candidate of the other party.
They even feel this positive emotion in reaction to events that are clearly negative.
Three other political scientists Shanto Iyengar, Gaurav Sood and Yphtach Lelkes reached a similar conclusion in a 2012 paper, Affect, Not Ideology: A Social Identity Perspective on Polarization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
They argue that instead of treating polarization in the general electorate as a conflict over competing policies, the better measure is affective polarization, which is their term for the way voters not only increasingly dislike the opposing party, but are also willing to impute negative traits to the rank-and-file of the out-party.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Iyengar and his co-authors contend that affective polarization has permeated judgments about interpersonal relations, exceeds polarization based on other prominent social cleavages, and that levels of partisan affect are significantly higher in America.
In a 2017 paper, All in the Eye of the Beholder: Asymmetry in Ideological Accountability, Iyengar and Sood provide further insight into how so many Republicans found their way to voting for Trump.
They demonstrate that partisan voters approval of their partys leaders bears little relationship with their ideological extremity.
Because of this, candidates like Trump enjoy considerable leeway to stake out positions at odds with the preferences of their supporters.
Iyengar and Sood buttress their analysis by pointing out that from December 2008 to August 2010, Sarah Palins support never once slipped below 69% among Republicans, even though her positions were well to the right of the average Republican voter and she was subjected to brutal ridicule in the liberal media.
The growing strength of the kind of partisanship that is widespread today whether you call it visceral, expressive, affective or tribal undermines the workings of democratic governance.
Not only are Republicans willing to support Trump, but both Democrats and Republicans are inclined to demonize the leadership of the opposing party.
Iyengar and Sood describe this as the boomerang effect: The position attributed to a disliked party perceived as ideologically distant is pushed even further away from the receivers position.
For instance, a Democrat who encounters a Republican campaign ad on government spending enlarges the discrepancy between herself and the Republican on the issue.
While attention has focused on Trump and the Republican Party (since both are in power), Democrats are hardly exempt from tribalism.
After Flake denounced Trump on the Senate floor on Tuesday, Tom Perez, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, issued a statement making the point that Flake, like Corker, had waited until he was no longer seeking office to break Republican ranks: Senator Flake voted with Donald Trump 91% of the time.
His retirement is a symbol of a Republican Party whose leaders allow Donald Trumps divisive politics to flourish as long as it serves their political interests, and who fail to criticize this dangerous president until its too late.
Nolan McCarty, a political scientist at Princeton, tweeted: When Dems attack those GOP pols who stand up to Trump, perhaps they are the ones putting party before country, a comment picked up by Ryan Enos, a political scientist at Harvard, who added, Yes, this seems to be a case of tribal loyalties coming out at the worst possible time.
Along similar lines, Theodoridis and Stephen Goggin, a political scientist at San Diego State, asked 1609 voters whether two unnamed senators were Democrats or Republicans.
One of the two was described as the subject of a story headlined Senator Wins Anti-Corruption Award, the other as the subject of a story headlined Senator Admits to Lying.
Democrats consistently labeled the anti-corruption senator a Democrat and the liar a Republican, while Republicans took the opposite view.
Perhaps most importantly, hyperpolarization is a powerful disincentive to compromise.
How can you make concessions to your mortal enemies?
To even start negotiations can be viewed, in this context, as surrender.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Trumps grip on his party remains firm.
A recent Wall Street Journal/NBC poll asked Republican voters: Do you consider yourself to be more of a supporter of Donald Trump or more of a supporter of the Republican Party?
The answer: Trump 58, the Republican Party 38.
Trumps overall favorability ratings may be terrible (39 percent positive to 56 negative), according to a RealClearPolitics average of the eight most recent surveys, but the generic Democratic advantage is a relatively modest 9.2 percentage points.
In an October 15-16 Economist/YouGov survey, Democratic voters said they planned to vote for Democratic House candidates 88-3 and Republicans said they would vote for Republican House candidates 86-3.
Independents favored Republican candidates 27-22.
These are not the kind of numbers Democrats need to win control of the House or Senate.
A number of questions present themselves to us as a nation, most notably: Where are we going?
Off a cliff appears to be the answer for now, but who is going to help us climb back up?
What can mitigate these developments except disaster?
Over time, will we just swing back and forth between parties with no bipartisan achievements at all?
What phoenix will rise from the ashes of our tribal partisanship?
Of course, this phenomenon is not limited to the United States.
It is a worldwide problem, which is another way of extending the question.
Germany, France and the Netherlands have one answer, still refusing to yield government control to right-wing populists despite the success of ethonationalist insurgencies in all three countries; Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, and Hungary have another answer they are all currently swerving to the far right.
Which path will we take?
In 1927 the French philosopher Julien Benda wrote The Treason of the Intellectuals (La Trahison des Clercs), a short book that pointed a damning finger at the ultra-nationalist thinkers of his time.
Photo Benda excoriated them for the intellectual organization of political hatreds.
He condemned them for worshiping a cult of success, which says that when a will is successful that fact alone gives it a moral value, whereas the will which fails is for that reason alone deserving of contempt.
He warned, prophetically, that this great betrayal of their philosophical vocation, along with their desire to abase the values of knowledge before the values of action had put mankind on the road to the greatest and most perfect war ever seen in the world.
Benda is often celebrated by conservative writers for his understanding of how prone intellectuals can be to fatal political misjudgments.
Think of Michel Foucaults embrace of Ayatollah Khomeini, Noam Chomskys excuses for the Khmer Rouge, or Naomi Kleins effusions for Venezuelas Hugo Chvez.
The list of intellectuals making fools of themselves is long.
So where are Bendas conservative disciples today, the ones I remember from panel discussions on the importance of moral character, the dangers of relativism, or the post-modern assault on the concept of truth?
Its instructive to read the high-minded defenses of Trump offered by writers in Breitbart, The Washington Times, The Federalist, and the rest of the pro-Trump press.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Their chief argument for Trump is that he won and is therefore a winner.
Their argument against Never Trumpers is that we failed and are therefore losers.
What about Trumps character?
It doesnt matter so long as the Supreme Court remains conservative.
Legislative failures are always and only the fault of establishment Republicans.
Boorish habits are merely a matter of taste and something of a virtue in the era of snowflakes.
As for the criticisms from Flake, Bush, Corker and McCain, who needs moral instruction from those sore losers and political has-beens?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Most telling is the Trumpians inability ever to utter a whisper of criticism of their man.
Even Never Trumpers will occasionally find themselves agreeing with the administration over one issue or another.
Not so the Trumpians.
With instincts that recall the Stalinist intelligentsia of the 1940s, they mix the logical elasticity of the sophist with the unflinching loyalty of the toady.
They are never anything except always all in.
All this suggests that what the media now trumpets as a looming G.O.P.
civil war isnt going to happen.
Corker and Flake arent stepping up; theyre bowing out.
Political retirees are good for leading charities, not movements.
As for the rest of the conservative movement, through its liaison with Trump it is participating in its own moral degradation in much the same way that Xaviera Hollander a Dutch consular secretary who realized she could make a much better living as a call girl and brothel operator became the notorious Happy Hooker of the 1970s.
Shameless, yes.
Criminal, also.
But a runaway success all the same, with a memoir that sold north of 15 million copies and a movie about her starring Lynn Redgrave.
The default assumption of nearly every opponent of Donald Trump is that, sooner or later, he is bound to fail, either because he will be overwhelmed by events, undermined by scandal or abandoned by his own supporters.
So far, none of that has happened.
In one key respect, he is the most successful president in modern times.
He has ripped out the ideological foundations on which his party once stood.
The Democratic Party was still recognizably itself after Bill Clinton left office.
The G.O.P.
will not be after Trump is done with it.
Like it or not, thats a testament to his charisma and power aided and abetted by those conservative intellectuals who proved so quick to prostitute themselves on his behalf.
Im going to try to stay in a position where I can have input to the president, Mr. Graham, 62, said in a lengthy interview.
I can help him where I can, and he will call me up and pick my brain.
Now, if youre a United States senator, thats a good place to find yourself.
Hes very popular in my state, Mr. Graham continued.
When I help him, it helps me back home.
And I think it probably helps him to be able to do business with an old rival whos seen as a deal maker.
To Republican critics of Mr. Trump, Mr. Graham is risking his reputation with such a calculus.
Lindsey Graham knows better, said Peter Wehner, who advised former President George W. Bush and is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times.
Deep in his heart, he must know that Donald Trump is fundamentally unfit to be president, and he has to pretend that Trump is.
And when you engage in a game like that, theres often a cost to it.
Mr. Graham is willing to take the risk.
Twice in the last two weeks, he has been the presidents golf partner.
(Mr. Trump is better, he says.)
There have been one-on-one huddles in the Oval Office.
And two days before the series of phone calls last week, Mr. Trump brought Mr. Graham along for a 15-minute helicopter flight from Joint Base Andrews in Maryland to the White House after a trip aboard Air Force One.
Few people ever get to join the president on Marine One.
Likely no one has been invited to fly as a guest aboard the presidential helicopter after calling the commander in chief the worlds biggest jackass, as Mr. Graham once said of Mr. Trump.
(Mr. Trump, then a candidate for the White House, responded by calling Mr. Graham an idiot.)
Somehow, though, a president who is famous for nursing grudges appears to have put the past behind him.
And despite their differences on immigration, race relations and isolationism Mr. Trump and Mr. Graham have become Washingtons oddest odd couple, working together to repeal the Affordable Care Act, cut taxes and increase military spending.
We have become friends while working to get health care and tax cuts for the American people, Mr. Trump said in an email response to a question about their relationship.
Senator Graham is a fighter and a good person.
Photo That hasnt always been Mr. Trumps opinion of Mr. Graham.
This summer, after the senator criticized the presidents comments about the racial violence in Virginia after the death of a protester, Heather Heyer, Mr. Trump lashed out.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Publicity seeking Lindsey Graham falsely stated that I said there is moral equivalency between the KKK, neo-Nazis & white supremacists, and people like Ms. Heyer, the president said on Twitter.
Such a disgusting lie.
He just cant forget his election trouncing.
The people of South Carolina will remember!
Some Republicans said they were not entirely surprised by Mr. Grahams embrace of the president.
Hes being very pragmatic, said Mike Murphy, a longtime Republican consultant who is also an outspoken critic of Mr. Trumps, adding that the senator was engaged in a delicate dance.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I dont give him any demerits on supporting him where they agree on policy, Mr. Murphy said.
Health care has been one of those areas.
Mr. Graham first opposed, then supported, the Senates unsuccessful effort to pass a narrow skinny repeal of the Affordable Care Act this summer.
Frustrated and unwilling to give up, Mr. Graham used a private meeting in the Oval Office to urge support for a plan that relies on block grants to states.
When that plan stalled, the private meeting gave it new life, according to former Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, who has been helping develop the block grant proposal.
We were getting nowhere until Lindsey met with Trump, and Trump said, Hey, youve got to start working with these guys, Mr. Santorum recalled.
They were paying us lip service until Trump said, Hey, I want this to happen.
As Lindsey got Trump more engaged, the White House got more engaged.
Mr. Graham said he was trying to help Mr. Trump turn his message into legislative success, adding: I think what he sees in me is a guy that is willing to try to find a way to make something happen.
Im willing to do things that sometimes other Republicans wont.
But Mr. Wehner cautioned that Mr. Graham must be careful.
Theres a rule of thumb when it comes to Donald Trump: Everybody who gets close to him or supportive of him in one way or another is stained by him, he said.
I suspect that Lindsey Graham is going to find that out the hard way.
Hell be used.
The senator insists he is frank with Mr. Trump when he disagrees with him.
For instance, Mr. Trump wants to do away with the filibuster, the Senate rule that requires a 60-vote threshold to pass most legislation.
Mr. Graham wants to keep it.
We argue about this all the time, the senator said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Looking ahead, Mr. Graham envisioned working with the president on issues as varied as an immigration overhaul Mr. Trump has credibility no one else has and a minimum-wage increase, which Mr. Graham says he intends to introduce when the Senate considers revamping the tax code.
He said Mr. Trump loved the idea.
Mr. Grahams Republican colleagues in the Senate, meanwhile, are keeping close watch on the newfound friendship.
Lindsey and the president are the most interesting couple in Washington, said Senator Bill Cassidy, the Louisiana Republican who is Mr. Grahams co-sponsor on the health care measure.
They kind of fuss with each other, and then they go play golf.
Mr. Corker offered another possible reason for their bonding: Lindseys fun!
Mr. Graham says much the same about the president: Hes a lot of fun.
Hes just like me.
Hes just a B.S.
artist on the golf course.
Kennedys conduct during the Cuban missile crisis was the opposite of the current presidents swaggering, ill-informed recklessness.
In essence, Kennedy put into practice the ideas of the great civilian strategists, who counseled showing resolve through firm declarations of resistance and sober clarifications of military capacity, while leaving an adversary a palatable opportunity to back down and the diplomatic channels through which to do so.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
In contrast to Kennedy, President Richard Nixon took repeated turns at playing the madman.
In 1969, during negotiations with North Vietnam, he sent a squadron of 18 nuclear-armed B-52s toward Moscow and staged a worldwide nuclear readiness alert, all to appear so unbalanced that the Soviets would pressure Hanoi to give in.
I want the North Vietnamese to believe Ive reached the point where I might do anything to stop the war, he told his chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman.
Historians continue to debate how effective Nixons maneuver was; the Soviet Union was taken aback, but then again the American role in the war lasted three and a half more years.
But its also important to remember that Nixon was not in fact a madman and chose his irrational moves with precision.
An old foreign-policy hand, he knew exactly whom he was dealing with in Moscow and Hanoi, and could predict with reasonable accuracy how they would react.
Yet even then, the results were inconclusive.
Put differently, the short history of nuclear confrontation demonstrates that effectively controlling the risks of nuclear war depends acutely on the personality of a particular president.
It matters greatly that the world assumed Nixon was rational, and that many in the world harbor concerns about Mr. Trump.
There is a crucial difference between playing against type to introduce new doubts and playing to type to reinforce existing ones.
For example, critical to Nixons strategy was what he said to Haldeman that hed been pushed too far, implying that he would return to his senses if the Soviets and North Vietnamese gave in.
But does anyone think Mr. Trump would do the same?
Consider the discombobulated way his administration has approached North Korea.
Some members of his national security team are apparently trying to apply the sort of approach that the Cuban missile crisis enshrined, emphasizing diplomatic and economic pressure and characterizing military measures as a last resort.
But Mr. Trump himself has frustrated and undermined them, doubling down on his own wayward improvisations by belittling Mr. Kim personally and proclaiming he wont be around much longer.
Meanwhile, he has undercut American diplomatic efforts on issues from the Iran nuclear deal to trade negotiations.
His threats to North Korea arent a case of temporary madness; theyre standard operating procedure.
Its hard to see the North Koreans backing down in hopes that Mr. Trump will return to reason and be a stable, rational negotiating partner.
The real risk here is that Mr. Trump does not actually understand the scope of the challenge he faces on the Korean Peninsula and that he may in fact mean what he says in his threats.
Any of the United States three basic offensive options an all-out preventive attack on North Koreas nuclear and missile facilities; a limited attack on those sites; or surgical special operations to overthrow or decapitate the regime could set off North Korean artillery barrages against the people of Seoul (and the nearly 30,000 American military personnel in South Korea) and wider war in the region, potentially up to the nuclear level.
Mr. Trump may be clueless about nuclear strategy and incapable of empathizing with the South Koreans.
But even he should blanch at immersing the United States in a destructive, unnecessary and ignominious war in Asia.
In the financial sector, a web of regulatory subsidies sustains financial institutions unhealthy reliance on extremely high levels of debt.
These subsidies, including policies that strongly encourage mortgage securitization as well as the implicit promise to bail out too big to fail institutions, swell profits in the near term while increasing the systemic risk of a catastrophic meltdown in the long run.
The result is a financial sector much bigger than the economy needs, chronic misallocation of capital and the diversion of some of the countrys top talent into counterproductive work.
Luring people into excessive debt, draining their savings with hidden fees, inflating the next asset bubble these and other dubious contributions by finance to the economy need to be curtailed.
Intellectual property laws are supposed to encourage innovation by granting temporary monopolies to copyright and patent holders.
But if those monopolies get too broad and too onerous, innovation takes a hit and that is precisely what has happened, at the urging and for the benefit of Hollywood, Big Pharma and some interests in Silicon Valley.
Occupational licensing rules at the state level help explain why professionals in the United States are paid so much more than their peers in other countries.
Primary care physicians, for example, make 50 percent more in the United States than in other advanced countries, and specialists do even better.
State regulations protect the incomes of doctors, dentists, undertakers and optometrists not to mention makeup artists and auctioneers while also stifling innovation.
Increasingly severe constraints on building in high-income coastal cities inflate the asset values of affluent homeowners, contributing significantly to rising disparities in wealth.
And by making housing unaffordable, they prevent the less well-off from moving to where the good-paying jobs are, reducing geographic and social mobility.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
This regressive regulatory swamp isnt a natural landscape; it grows because of forces in our political environment.
The beneficiaries of upward redistribution are always far more organized than those who pay the costs.
They can divert some of their artificially high profits into lobbying and policy research that bestow a patina of the public interest on schemes that are, in practice, legalized robbery.
Drugmakers, for example, portray even the most modest retrenchment of patent law as catastrophic for American innovation, while financiers warn that any restraint on subsidized risk-taking (through higher capital requirements, for example) will starve American industry of the capital it needs to invest and grow.
This unequal battle for the minds of policymakers is particularly damaging at a time when the resources that Congress and the bureaucracy have for independent research have been systematically dismantled.
In finance, in particular, Congress has a difficult time hiring and retaining staff with the technical knowledge and experience to assess the impact of new regulations, leaving them dependent on the abundant resources of the industry itself.
In addition, many regressive regulations are made in obscure places with limited participation, such as state licensing boards and town councils in charge of approving new housing.
Insiders with narrow interests, whether self-serving professional groups or Nimby neighbors, have the motivation and resources to show up at poorly attended meetings and work the system, often at odds with the general publics interest in low prices and economic opportunity.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Really draining the swamp means changing the policymaking process to shield it against insider takeover and manipulation.
For starters, congressional staffs need to be expanded, upgraded and professionalized.
Legislators would then be better able to make their own assessments of complex regulatory issues without having to depend on the biased expertise of industry lobbyists.
Philanthropists need to put their dollars behind a network of organizations to counter the organizational presence of the forces of upward redistribution.
The Ford Foundation did this in the 1970s by investing in a network of environmental law firms like the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Environmental Defense Fund.
More recently, the Eli and Edythe Broad, Walton Family, Robertson and other charitable foundations have made similar investments in educational reforms.
Whatever you think of the merits of these causes, the new interest groups funded by sustained philanthropy changed the political landscape in these issue areas, forcing policymakers to recognize that there were, in fact, two sides to be considered.
A network of new organizations with the resources and expertise to compete with big banks, the medical lobby and other industry groups could have a similar impact today.
Activist groups could show up regularly in all the obscure places where rules are set and make sure that someone speaks up for the public interest.
State and local governments need to institute regulatory review procedures that expose back-room deals to objective scrutiny.
While cost-benefit analysis by the Office of Management and Budget is standard for new federal regulations, no such reviews are conducted when states propose to license new occupations or cities stymie new housing construction.
Courts at all levels need to be less deferential to regulatory schemes that in contrast to environmental or labor regulation have no justification other than the protection of incumbent interests.
For example, courts could force legislatures to explicitly approve expansions in the scope of occupational licensing, depriving licensing boards of the power to do so in shadowy obscurity.
In the political arena, the issues of regressive regulation cut across the usual partisan and ideological battle lines, and so tend to be kept off the agenda by legislative leaders who emphasize issues that hold their caucus together.
Libertarian-leaning conservatives and egalitarian liberals need to forge strange-bedfellows coalitions to tackle policies that are simultaneously bad for growth and inequality.
In recent years, cross-party coalitions in the states have started to make progress on criminal justice reform.
Opposition to upward redistribution can galvanize support for similar alliances on regulatory issues.
The administration of Donald Trump has shown no interest in draining the real swamp that is drowning Americas economy and corrupting its politics.
If public-spirited Democrats and Republicans fail to do so, trust in democracy will continue to erode.
And the next demagogue who cashes in by saying he alone can fix things is likely to be more disciplined and focused than Mr. Trump and hence even more dangerous.
Although the chief justice had not, in fact, posed a question, Mr. Smith ventured an answer: It may be that you can protect the court from seeming political, but the country is going to lose faith in democracy, big time.
A cogently expressed concern, cogently countered.
Will Chief Justice Roberts derive comfort from the damned if you do, damned if you dont nature of the choice before the court?
Not likely, but thats not my point.
Its easy enough to poke a sharp stick in the chief justices late-acquired worry about the Supreme Court sullying its hands in politically fraught cases.
What about Citizens United, one might ask, or Shelby County v. Holder, with the chief justices majority opinion that by a vote of 5 to 4 dismantled the recently reenacted Voting Rights Act?
Thats not my point either.
Wisdom too often never comes, and so one ought not to reject it merely because it comes late, Justice Felix Frankfurter once wrote.
He might have said the same for the judicial modesty the chief justice seemed to be advocating when it comes to addressing gerrymanders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Id like to take seriously the chief justices evident worry about the Supreme Courts legitimacy and play it out a bit.
The concern is not a new one for John Roberts.
It infused his dissenting opinion two years ago in the same-sex marriage decision, Obergefell v. Hodges.
Last April, shortly after the confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch, Chief Justice Roberts spoke at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., and expressed the fear that the sharply partisan confirmation process would damage the court in the publics view.
It is a real danger that the partisan hostility that people see in the political branches will affect the nonpartisan activity of the judicial branch, he said then, adding: It is very difficult, I think, for a member of the public to look at what goes on in confirmation hearings these days, which is a very sharp conflict in political terms between Democrats and Republicans, and not think that the person who comes out of that process must similarly share that partisan view of public issues and public life.
So I can only imagine what the chief justice felt last week when Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, stood next to President Trump and made this public declaration: The single most significant thing this president has done to change America is the appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court.
And assuming, as I do, that Chief Justice Roberts is a close student of public opinion polls, I wonder what he makes of a new Gallup Poll, out last month, showing that for the first time since 2008 more Americans say the Supreme Court is too conservative rather than too liberal.
The gap isnt huge 30 percent too conservative to 23 percent too liberal but the shift in public perception is sudden and significant.
In 2015-16, following the same-sex marriage ruling, too liberal outstripped too conservative with a gap of 17 percent.
Gallups analysis suggests that the shift may be less because of any specific cases than of public knowledge that Republicans control two branches of government and seem to be in a position to exert heavy influence on the third.
In other words, the public is seeing the court and its future not in isolation but in context.
The chief justice also has to know that for the first time in the courts modern history, the individual justices are ideologically aligned with the party of the president who appointed them.
There are no crossovers, no William Brennan or Harry Blackmun or John Paul Stevens, Republican-appointed justices who ended their careers as liberals, and no Byron White, appointed by President John F. Kennedy and a dissenter from the courts liberal rulings on abortion and criminal procedure.
That in itself is cause for concern for a chief justice inclined to worry that people will look at Supreme Court justices and see partisans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I assume these thoughts were not far from his mind as he mused aloud during the gerrymander argument.
And Id like to suggest that rather than wringing their hands, progressives might take heart.
Whatever happens with this case a harder case than many good-government types have admitted publicly or even privately there are many more political hot-button cases on their way to the Supreme Court: voter ID cases, racially discriminatory redistricting cases, even other gerrymander challenges litigated under different constitutional theories.
In the recent past, Chief Justice Roberts has seemed to me a bit too openly eager to get the courts hands on these issues.
Twice in the past term, the court decided against taking up highly charged political cases.
It let stand lower court rulings that invalidated a voter ID requirement in Texas and that deemed discriminatory a series of voting changes in North Carolina.
In each case, the chief justice, writing only for himself, issued statements to underscore that the court was bypassing the cases for essentially procedural reasons and not because the justices agreed with the lower court rulings.
These solitary personal statements in the Texas and North Carolina cases served no purpose that I could discern other than to keep up the spirits of the states that would continue to defend their problematic statutes.
The Texas voter ID case is highly likely to return to the court.
When it does, and when similar cases arrive at the Supreme Courts door as the next redistricting cycle grows ever closer, will the chief justice take the court into the fray, or will he think back to what he said to Paul Smith and decide that the courts interests are best served by sitting it out?
Over the years, the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, has comforted families of the fallen while simultaneously lashing out at a chattering class of critics.
Now Flake is one of the prideful Republican rebels who are standing up to Trump on a daily basis, along with Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and John McCain of Arizona.
Corker, whose theme is that Trump is utterly untruthful and sort of nuts, does not seem to have ever been in a reality TV show.
However, McCain ran for president in 2008 with Sarah Palin as a running mate and that should count for something.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Trump, of course, spent much of his career pretending to be himself before the cameras.
Thats the thing about reality TV its actually happening, but youre also making it up.
Jeff Flake and his buddy were alone on the desert island with a camera crew.
And, according to some reports, the producers decided who to fire on The Apprentice.
The president tends to be extremely agreeable when hes playing chief executive at meetings.
He had a gathering with Republicans to talk about tax cuts and received a standing ovation.
I called it a love fest, Trump said later.
This is the same guy who got along super-well with some Democratic senators at a dinner not too long ago.
They discussed taxes, too, and agreed about everything.
But nothings necessarily going to last once people leave the room.
This week Trump tweeted a denunciation of any Republican tax bill that would modify the popular 401(k) program, vowing, There will be NO change to your 401(k).
On Wednesday he said it was something his party could use for negotiating.
This is a man whose strong suit is supposed to be deal making?
Early in this presidency, optimists believed that when Trump suddenly veered wildly from one position to another it was because of canny tactics.
Now optimists believe that hes just really forgetful.
Its tough, as everybody knows, to come to a bipartisan agreement on anything in Washington these days.
Way harder than when Jeff Flake was trying to get milk from a coconut with Martin Heinrich.
Now, if the two parties are ready to come together, they cant be sure the president wont rewrite the script and denounce them for betraying the middle class.
I know many of you are exhausted with the continuous wave of crazy-person stories pouring out of the White House.
Perhaps you would feel better if you believed that Donald Trump does not so much lie as re-run reality on a different camera.
He said this week that he was extremely nice to the widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson, one of the four soldiers killed in Niger.
Myeshia Johnson said that the president was unfeeling and appeared not to know her husbands name.
Trump claimed he got all the names right because he has one of the great memories of all time.
It is possible thats the way he recalls the scene.
In the real world, he seems to naturally say things that are off-kilter.
And there are possibly days that he calls his oldest daughter SriLanka.
Or Mary Sue.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Does that make you feel better?
No?
Well, I tried.
The documents have either never been disclosed or been made public only in redacted form, and are due to be released by the National Archives and Records Administration on Thursday under a law passed in 1992 after the Oliver Stone movie JFK stoked interest in Kennedy-related conspiracies.
The last of the documents were required to be released 25 years after the law was signed, but the incumbent president, in this case Mr. Trump, can order some withheld in response to concerns by the intelligence agencies.
White House officials said he had not made up his mind whether to do so.
Photo Historians and conspiracy investigators are eager to see what the documents may yet reveal about Lee Harvey Oswald and any ties he may have had to the Cubans, Soviets, C.I.A., F.B.I.
or mafia.
Some hope for a better understanding of Oswalds trip to Mexico City, where he visited the Cuban Consulate in the weeks before the assassination at Dealey Plaza in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963.
Still, some specialists on the killing warned against expecting any stunning revelation.
I dont think it will turn the case on its head, said Gerald Posner, author of Case Closed, the 1993 book that concluded that Oswald indeed killed Kennedy on his own.
Were not going to find some secret memo from J. Edgar Hoover drawing out the escape path for Lee Harvey Oswald, he said.
The public expectations are very high theyve heard about secret files, they know theyve been locked up for all these years.
The average person may think theres a bombshell in there.
But Mr. Posner said the files might draw a fuller picture of the early 1960s beyond the specific questions about the assassination.
This is all about the Cold War and spooks and spies and Mexico City, he said.
This is about a time when we know the government was in league with the mob to kill Castro.
Cold War scholars and historians may find this as interesting as Kennedy assassination researchers.
According to the archives, 88 percent of the documents in the collection created by the 1992 law have been released in full and another 11 percent have been released with portions redacted.
Just 1 percent have been withheld in full until now.
Most have remained secret because they were declared not assassination related or not believed relevant.
Officials said many of those were documents created as late as the 1990s to describe how intelligence collection worked.
Jefferson Morley, an author who spent years suing the C.I.A.
for documents related to the Kennedy assassination, said he thought it likely that Mr. Trump would defer to some agency demands and withhold a portion of the archive.
But he said he nonetheless hoped it would answer some questions for researchers that linger after nearly 54 years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There wont be any smoking gun, said Mr. Morley, editor of the assassination website JFKfacts.org, who re-examined the period for his new book, The Ghost: The Secret Life of C.I.A.
Spymaster James Jesus Angleton.
But it will fill in the picture of the pre-assassination surveillance of Oswald, especially during his visit to the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City.
Photo Mr. Morley said that the C.I.A.
and the F.B.I.
were well aware of Oswald, a former defector to the Soviet Union, before the killing.
The idea that Oswald came out of the blue and shot the president is false, he said.
The C.I.A.
had a deep file on him.
Mr. Morley also said that with the potential release of what may total more than 100,000 pages, no one should expect instant answers on what they contained.
There will be good stuff in there, but youre not going to find it in the first two hours, he said.
Max Holland, a Washington writer and author of the 2004 book The Kennedy Assassination Tapes, said he believed expectations about potential revelations from the files were overblown.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
He noted that while the documents have not been previously made public, they all were seen years ago by the J.F.K.
Assassination Records Review Board and were unlikely to significantly affect the official story.
He cautioned against conspiratorial thinking that runs against the evidence, which he finds persuasive, that Oswald alone killed Kennedy.
I can understand why people are curious, Mr. Holland said.
But the level of distrust in this country is such that people will believe anything.
The problem is really with us.
Indeed, the Kennedy assassination has continued to intrigue and puzzle the American public long after most of the main players have died.
While the Warren Commission concluded that Oswald acted alone, most people have never accepted the official version of events.
A poll by Gallup in 2013, at the time of the 50th anniversary, found that 61 percent of Americans still believed that others besides Oswald were involved and that was the lowest percentage of skeptics found in nearly a half century.
We just have to realize that there is never going to be an explanation of the Kennedy assassination that will satisfy everyone, Mr. Beschloss said.
That will never happen.
At the same time, there are still mysteries on which these files might shed some light.
He is a Marine first and foremost, Mr. Panetta said.
In addition to being a Marine, he was born and raised in Boston among blue-collar families with traditional views about God and country.
You combine those two and you realize that he shares some of these deep values, some of which Trump himself has tried to talk about.
As tall and commanding in a suit as he was in a uniform, Mr. Kelly has become a central figure in Mr. Trumps orbit.
After six months in the cabinet as secretary of homeland security, Mr. Kelly took over a turbulent and tribal White House last summer and by most accounts imposed more order on the building and staff, if not the Twitter-obsessed president himself.
Mr. Kellys focus on improving information flow and decision making in the West Wing gave the impression of a good soldier mainly concerned with process.
But that obscured a player who expresses his own sharp views in selected areas, most notably immigration, where he shares Mr. Trumps commitment to toughening the border and deporting many in the country illegally.
His views were forged in part by his time heading the United States Southern Command, which oversees American military operations and security in Central and South America and in the Caribbean.
Mr. Kelly not only expressed willingness to curb refugees coming into the country in the end, Mr. Trump lowered the cap to 45,000 he embraced Mr. Trumps various attempts to close the border to visitors from a group of predominantly Muslim countries.
He aggressively turned up the heat on internal immigration enforcement, stepping up deportation of undocumented immigrants, even those without serious criminal records, reversing an Obama administration policy.
Under Mr. Kellys leadership, the Department of Homeland Security also went after undocumented parents who bring their children into the country.
He directed immigration officials to lodge smuggling charges against the parents, saying they were putting children in danger.
Kelly has been an enabler of Trumps mission, said Juliette Kayyem, a former assistant homeland security secretary under Mr. Obama.
Judge him that way.
His image as a steady, nonideological figure trying to restore order in the White House in the face of a radical president, she added, was not true.
Mr. Kelly, she said, was not the savior or the hostage.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other Democrats have expressed alarm at Mr. Kellys views on immigration.
At a dinner including Mr. Trump and the Democratic leaders Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, Mr. Kelly gave an extended critique of Mexico, calling it a third-world country in danger of collapsing the way Venezuela has and arguing that the United States needed to guard itself against that, according to people informed about the conversation.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, who recommended Mr. Kelly to Mr. Trump last winter, said the retired generals background gave him an understanding of the dangers and drawbacks of unfettered immigration.
He knows a lot of the challenges that we face south of the border, Mr. Cotton said, adding that the issue is something that hes lived on a firsthand basis for years.
Like Mr. Panetta, he pointed to Mr. Kellys upbringing.
I think he appreciates the struggles of Americas working class the blue-collar workers over the last 30, 40 years, the kind of people who have to take a shower after they get off work, not before they go to work and the impact that mass unskilled and low-skilled immigration has had on working-class wages in our society, Mr. Cotton said.
As a cabinet officer, Mr. Kelly frequently lashed out at critics.
In March, during a meeting with members of Arab and Muslim communities in Dearborn, Mich., Mr. Kelly threatened to walk out after being posed hard questions about the travel ban and what participants saw as the targeting of Muslim Americans at ports of entry, according to people in attendance.
During a speech in April, Mr. Kelly rebuked members of Congress who complained about what they called overly aggressive immigration enforcement.
If lawmakers do not like the laws theyve passed and we are charged to enforce, then they should have the courage and skill to change the laws, Mr. Kelly said defiantly.
Otherwise, they should shut up and support the men and women on the front lines.
That drew a rebuke from Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas.
I dont think its correct for you to tell members of Congress to shut up, he said.
Mr. Kelly has also engaged in testy public debates with Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California.
During a June meeting, Ms. Harris and Mr. Kelly engaged in a contentious back-and-forth as she questioned him about Trump administration threats to cut off funding for so-called sanctuary cities that refuse to cooperate with federal immigration officials.
All of that foreshadowed his attack last week on Representative Frederica S. Wilson, Democrat of Florida, who publicly accused Mr. Trump of insensitivity when he called the widow of Sgt.
La David T. Johnson, who was killed this month in Niger.
Mr. Kelly called her an empty barrel and told an unflattering story about her that was proved untrue by videotape of the event he mentioned.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Kelly decided himself to head out to the White House briefing room to defend the president, colleagues said, and most of his remarks reflected on his own experience as the father of a slain Marine and the nature of military service.
He brought tears to the eyes of other White House aides, who afterward traded emails expressing admiration for Mr. Kellys passionate defense of Mr. Trump.
It was only afterward that they began to see how the attack on Ms. Wilson came to overshadow the emotion of the first part of his speech.
Mr. Kelly was surprised by the criticism of his speech, colleagues said, but he has not apologized to Ms. Wilson for making false statements about her.
White House officials said they opted against it to avoid extending the story.
Mr. Panetta said Mr. Kellys attack on a congresswoman reflected his lack of experience in high-level politics.
He knows where the land mines are in the Marines, but he doesnt know where the land mines are in politics, Mr. Panetta said.
And hell make mistakes as a result, and he certainly made mistakes last week in going after people in that news conference.
But, he said, it was authentic: As somebody who worked with this guy, a lot of what he got up to say is a reflection of who John Kelly is.
Photo Its less striking that a few Republican congressmen have publicly denounced President Trumps conduct than that most of their colleagues have not.
Their fellow legislators have silently accepted his outrages in exchange for policies theyve always wanted.
At his inauguration Mr. Trump said his presidency was about transferring power from Washington, D.C., and giving it back to you, the American people.
But he and his allies in Congress are transferring power to Wall Street, fossil fuel companies, the chemical industry and other special interests, and are stoking an anti-populist bonfire to incinerate protections for consumers and workers.
On Tuesday night the Senate, with a tiebreaking vote from Vice President Mike Pence, followed the House in voting to overturn a rule that would have allowed consumers to file class-action lawsuits against banks and other financial institutions, rather than be forced to take their disputes to arbitration.
The regulation, created after fraud and malfeasance by those businesses financially ruined thousands of Americans and almost wrecked the world economy, joins a series of Obama-era rules that Congress and Mr. Trump have shredded.
Meanwhile, they have taken several actions to benefit the well-off at the expense of average Americans.
Health care sabotage.
Mr. Trump signed an executive order allowing insurers to sell skimpy health insurance plans that do not protect people with pre-existing conditions and that will destabilize the Affordable Care Acts marketplaces.
He also said he would stop making payments to insurers that were authorized by the 2010 law, which will cause companies to increase premiums, hurting middle-class families.
His administration shortened the open enrollment period when people can buy insurance policies for next year, and slashed spending on advertising and outreach efforts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The administration made it easier for companies to stop providing no-cost birth control to employees if they have religious or moral objections to doing so.
It announced that teenage pregnancy prevention grants would end two years early.
Congress repealed an Obama-era rule that forbade states to deny family planning funds to Planned Parenthood.
Democrats argue that who paid for the research is irrelevant to the veracity of its claims, which they say should be thoroughly investigated.
Yet some of the Democrats who funded the dossier have been leery about being associated with it.
The lead Perkins Coie lawyer representing both the campaign and the D.N.C., Marc Elias, pushed back earlier this year when asked whether his firm was the client for the dossier, whether he possessed it before the election and whether he was involved in efforts to encourage media outlets to write about its contents.
On Tuesday, the veteran Democratic consultant Anita Dunn, who is working with Perkins Coie, explained Mr. Eliass earlier response.
Obviously, he was not at liberty to confirm Perkins Coie as the client at that point, and should perhaps have no commented more artfully, Ms. Dunn wrote in an email.
Is this sort of research common or legal?
Campaigns and party committees frequently pay companies to assemble whats known in politics as opposition research essentially damaging information about their opponents and nothing is illegal about the practice.
However, Republicans and campaign watchdogs have accused the Clinton campaign and the D.N.C.
of violating campaign finance laws by disguising the payments to Fusion GPS on mandatory disclosures to the Federal Election Commission.
Their disclosure reports do not list any payments from the Clinton campaign or the D.N.C.
to Fusion GPS.
They do list a total of $12.4 million in payments to Perkins Coie, but thats almost entirely for legal consulting, with only one payment of $66,500 for research consulting from the D.N.C.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In a complaint filed with the F.E.C.
on Wednesday, the Campaign Legal Center, a nonprofit group that urges stricter enforcement of election laws, alleged that at least some of those payments were earmarked for Fusion GPS, with the purpose of conducting opposition research on Donald Trump.
The complaint asserts that the failure to list the ultimate purpose of that money undermined the vital public information role that reporting is intended to serve.
Graham M. Wilson, a partner at Perkins Coie, called the complaint patently baseless, in part because, he said, the research was done to support the provision of legal services, and payments made by vendors to sub-vendors are not required to be disclosed in circumstances like this.
Who else knew about Mr. Steeles research during the campaign?
Officials from the Clinton campaign and the D.N.C.
have said they were unaware that Perkins Coie facilitated the research on their behalf, even though the law firm was using their money to pay for it.
Even Mrs. Clinton only found about Mr. Steeles research after Buzzfeed published the dossier, according to two associates who discussed the matter with her.
They said that she was disappointed that the research as well as the fact that the F.B.I.
was looking into connections between Mr. Trumps associates and Russia was not made public before Election Day.
But word of the memos and their contents had circulated in Washington political and media circles before the election.
In British court filings, Mr. Steeles lawyers said that he and Fusion GPS briefed journalists from a range of media outlets, including The New York Times, on his research starting in September of 2016.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yet the research and even the existence of the dossier were not reported by the media, with the exception of Mother Jones magazine, which published a story in the days before the election that described the dossier, its origin and significance, while omitting the salacious claims.
How much of the dossier has been substantiated?
There has been no public corroboration of the salacious allegations against Mr. Trump, nor of the specific claims about coordination between his associates and the Russians.
In fact, some of those claims have been challenged with supporting evidence.
For instance, Mr. Trumps longtime personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, produced his passport to rebut the dossiers claim that he had secret meetings in Prague with a Russian official last year.
Where does the dossier fit in with the governments Russia investigations?
James B. Comey, the former F.B.I.
director whose firing by Mr. Trump prompted the appointment of a special counsel to oversee the Justice Departments Russia investigation, received a copy of the memos after Election Day from Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
Mr. McCain had dispatched David J. Kramer, a former top State Department official, to obtain the dossier directly from Mr. Steele.
And before Election Day, the F.B.I.
reached an agreement to pay Mr. Steele to continue his research, though that plan was scrapped after the dossier was published.
During the presidential transition, senior American intelligence officials briefed Mr. Trump and President Barack Obama on the dossier.
Investigators from the House and Senate intelligence committees and Mr. Muellers team have been exploring claims made in the dossier.
Mr. Muellers team reportedly interviewed Mr. Steele over the summer.
In the 1990s, Mr. Flake served as the executive director of the Goldwater Institute in Arizona, a libertarian think tank named for Barry M. Goldwater, the deeply conservative senator.
While a member of the House of Representatives for 12 years, Mr. Flake staked his reputation on being a fiscally responsible conservative, voting against spending bills and waging fights over earmarks.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
His lifetime voting record has averaged high marks from libertarian and conservative groups, including 95 percent from FreedomWorks, 93 percent from the American Conservative Union, 97 percent from Americans for Prosperity and 73 percent from Heritage Action.
In his 2012 Senate campaign, Mr. Flakes endorsements included former Gov.
Sarah Palin of Alaska, the National Rifle Association and FreedomWorks.
Representative Pete Sessions, then the National Republican Congressional Committee chairman, called Mr. Flake a stalwart fiscal conservative.
For the past two years, Mr. Flake has been responsible for producing the annual Wastebook that details examples of wasteful government spending.
Mr. Flakes support for immigration, which in his Tuesday retirement speech he characterized as a traditional conservative position, has roiled some of his fellow Republicans over the years.
He ran afoul of Tea Party activists during his 2012 campaign and was criticized for being a member of the Gang of Eight, a bipartisan group of senators tasked with immigration reform in 2013.
Breitbart News characterized him as a supporter of amnesty.
The conservative commentator Ann Coulter listed him among our stupidest Republicans and proposed that someone challenge him in the primary race.
And the conservative radio and TV personality Glenn Beck, a former admirer of Mr. Flake, called him a Tea Party favorite who quickly lost his soul after taking his oath of office.
Immigration aside, Voteview, which places congressional votes on an ideological map, has consistently ranked Mr. Flake among the most conservative members of his party.
According to this metric, Mr. Flake was the second most conservative member of the House from 2001 to 2005 before slipping to No.
3, where he remained until he joined the Senate.
Currently, only two senators Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mike Lee of Utah are more conservative than Mr. Flake, according to Voteview.
Govtrack, a website that monitors legislative actions, assigns an ideological score based on bill sponsorship.
Mr. Flake has ranked among the middle the pack by this measure, ranging from No.
17 in 2013 to No.
32 in 2015.
While Mr. Flake has consistently criticized Mr. Trump since the 2016 presidential election, he has voted in support of the president 90 percent of the time a fact that Mr. Trump noted in his remarks on Wednesday and said was good.
President Trump said the press creates a different image of who he is, and that there was no hesitation in his call to the widow of Sgt.
La David T. Johnson, who was killed in an attack in Niger.
This situation didnt come out of nowhere.
Over the past few decades, our political culture has corroded.
Traditions of compromise and civility have given way to a zero-sum, winner-take-all approach that is now out of control.
As Mr. Flake said on the Senate floor Tuesday, Anger and resentment are not a governing philosophy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Unfortunately, Jeff Flake is only the latest example of a Republican whose willingness to speak out against his partys current standard-bearer has cost him politically.
The president has spent weeks impugning Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who heads the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, for pointing out that Mr. Trump is debasing the nation.
Mr. Trump, as a candidate and as president, has also repeatedly and viciously attacked Senator John McCain, a war hero who has sacrificed more for the United States than most of us can even imagine.
Republican leaders have offered occasional defenses of their colleagues from these attacks: Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, called Mr. Flake a very fine man of high principles on Tuesday.
But they have largely remained on the sidelines as Mr. Trump and his allies have attacked those few Republicans who have dared to call for civility and compromise.
The consequences of this could be grave.
If the Republican Party under Donald Trump has no room for independent-minded conservatives, and if, in the coming years, senators like Jeff Flake and Bob Corker are replaced by fringe conservatives handpicked because of their blind loyalty to this president, it will be too late for responsible conservatives to salvage the party theyve built over generations.
As a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, Im particularly worried by the prospect of Mr. Trumps narrow, nationalist America First foreign policy replacing the vision of lawmakers like Mr. McCain, Mr. Corker and Mr. Flake who have pushed for strong American global leadership based on human rights, the rule of law and strong international agreements.
I sincerely hope that Republican leaders recognize this before its too late.
As for Democrats, there should be no sense of satisfaction in what is happening to the Republican Party.
The balance of two functioning political parties has been essential to our countrys success.
In fact, we should take this moment to look at ourselves in the mirror and ask: How much do our own partys internal battles resemble the fight happening within the Republican Party?
As Democrats call for independence and pragmatism from Republicans, we should be asking ourselves how tolerant we are of dissent within our own party and how much we are really willing to reach across the aisle.
Senator Flake finished his remarks on the Senate floor on Tuesday by quoting Abraham Lincoln, who reminded Americans on the eve of the Civil War that we are not enemies, but friends and though passion may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection.
Mr. Flake wisely warned Republicans and Democrats that our bonds are dangerously strained.
Now is the time to ensure they dont break.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a closely divided Senate, three of my Republican colleagues have made risky, unpopular decisions to speak out about the precarious state of their party and the country.
We should heed their warnings, challenge them to turn their words into action and ask how we can do the same.
The subsidies reimburse insurers for reducing deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs for seven million low-income people who buy midlevel silver plans on the Affordable Care Act marketplace.
Under the law, insurers will still have to provide the discounts, known as cost-sharing reductions, but may be unable to collect reimbursement from the government.
Mr. Trump ordered federal officials two weeks ago to stop making the monthly payments.
Another federal district judge, in Washington, ruled in 2016 that the payments were unconstitutional because Congress had never appropriated money for them.
On Wednesday, Judge Chhabria concluded that both sides have reasonable arguments on the main legal question: Whether Congress appropriated money for the cost-sharing payments.
Two senior senators, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, a Republican, and Patty Murray of Washington, a Democrat, announced last week that they had agreed on a bill to extend the cost-sharing payments through 2019 and make it easier for states to obtain waivers from requirements of the Affordable Care Act.
After initially endorsing the deal, Mr. Trump backed off a day later, and the White House demanded changes as a condition of its support.
The Congressional Budget Office said Wednesday that the Alexander-Murray bill would produce a modest reduction in federal budget deficits, but would not substantially change the number of people with coverage.
The budget office estimated that the legislation would reduce deficits by a total of $3.8 billion over the next decade.
With the deficit for the last fiscal year alone reaching $666 billion, that is a relatively small number, but supporters of the bill made the most of it.
The Congressional Budget Office has found that our proposal benefits taxpayers, it benefits consumers not insurance companies, said Mr. Alexander, the chairman of the Senate health committee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The proposal has broad support from Democratic senators and at least a dozen Republican senators.
But conservative Republicans in the House and the Senate have denounced it as a bailout for insurers, and Mr. Trump has sent mixed signals about whether he supports it.
Representative Dave Brat, Republican of Virginia, called the measure a nonstarter.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The budget office said that continuing the cost-sharing payments would not change its estimate of federal spending because it had already assumed that the government would pay the subsidies: $9 billion a year in 2018 and 2019, and a total of $99 billion from 2018 to 2027.
The Trump administration on Wednesday unveiled a new version of the HealthCare.gov website showing premiums and other details of health insurance plans that will be offered for sale in the open enrollment period that starts next week.
In many markets, consumers will have few choices and will see high sticker prices before taking account of financial assistance for which they may qualify.
But by carefully shopping around, consumers will often be able to find bargains a point highlighted in the case in California, where the state runs its own marketplace.
During Mondays hearing, state officials told Judge Chhabria that cutting off the subsidy payments would cause immediate and irreparable harm to states and to consumers, increasing the likelihood that insurers would pull out of the marketplace.
But Judge Chhabria said California and most of the other state plaintiffs saw the writing on the wall a long time ago that the administration was going to terminate these payments to insurance companies to subsidize co-payments and deductibles.
California is doing a really good job of responding to the termination of these payments in a way that is not only avoiding harm for people, but actually benefiting people, the judge added.
In his Wednesday ruling, Judge Chhabria wrote that low-income people who now have silver plans in some cases may be able to find gold plans with lower premiums and lower deductibles for 2018.
To offset the expected loss of cost-sharing subsidies, California added a surcharge to the price of midlevel silver plans sold on its Affordable Care Act marketplace.
When premiums go up, consumers receive more financial assistance to help with premium costs, so in many cases they will be no worse off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Nearly four out of five consumers will see their premiums stay the same or decrease, since the amount of financial help they receive will also rise, Californias insurance marketplace announced earlier this month.
In addition, it said, three-fourths of consumers in the state who are eligible for assistance will be able to buy low-cost bronze health plans next year for less than $10 a month.
The state of California is standing on the courthouse steps denouncing the president for taking away peoples health care, Judge Chhabria said at Mondays hearing, when the truth is that California has come up with a solution to that issue that is going to result in better health care for a lot of people.
Many other states have taken similar steps to minimize harm to consumers, the judge said.
He was appointed in 2014 by President Barack Obama.
Advertisement The Unhealthy Politics of Pork: How It Increases Your Medical Costs Image The term pork barrel spending has been around for well over 100 years.
It means using government funds on local projects that are primarily used to bring more money to a specific representatives district.
Credit Matt Cardy/Getty Images No industry in America spends more on lobbying than health care.
In 2016, the health care industry spent half a billion dollars on lobbying, with pharmaceutical companies, hospitals and health professionals making the largest contributions.
In 2009, the year the Affordable Care Act was debated, health care lobbying exceeded $550 million.
(Last year, by comparison, defense lobbying totaled $129 million, and the gun lobby spent just $10.5 million.)
Closely related to industry lobbying is the political maneuvering that congressional leaders use in an effort to pass legislation specifically, targeted provisions known as earmarks, sweeteners or pork barrel spending.
The final version of the Graham-Cassidy health bill, for example, would have sent extra money to Alaska and Maine for the crucial votes of senators from those states, Lisa Murkowski and Susan Collins.
In 2010, Democrats hoping to secure votes from reluctant rural state senators added the Frontier States provision to the A.C.A., which increased Medicare payments to five states with low population densities.
We all know earmarks and lobbying influence policymakers and policy.
In health care, this has critical implications: who gets care, how much they get, how we pay for it.
But theres little hard data on exactly who benefits and how large the effects can be.
A new study illuminates the ways these political dynamics can change congressional and hospital behavior and how they can increase health care costs for the rest of us.
Research by Zack Cooper, Amanda Kowalski and Jennifer Wu at Yale and by Eleanor Powell at the University of Wisconsin-Madison analyzed a provision in the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (M.M.A.
), known as Section 508, that helped secure Republican votes for the laws passage.
The M.M.A., which created Medicare Part D and provided prescription drug coverage for seniors, was a political priority for President George W. Bush ahead of his 2004 re-election campaign.
But fiscally conservative Republicans were hesitant to sign on to what amounted to the largest expansion of Medicare in its history, and the bill seemed unlikely to pass.
Thats when Section 508 was added.
The rate at which Medicare pays individual hospitals is determined largely by a hospitals location and the labor costs, or wage index, in its area.
Hospitals can, however, request to be reclassified into a different wage index area to raise their payments.
Sometimes there are good reasons for this: Two hospitals might be competing in the same region, and because theyre separated by an arbitrary bureaucratic line, one gets paid more than the other.
But Section 508 waivers created new, more ambiguous ways that hospitals in specific districts could appeal their assigned wage index, and gave the executive branch considerable discretion about which requests would be granted and how big the pay increases would be.
The Section 508 waivers had large effects on how both politicians and hospitals operated.
About 400 hospitals applied for a Medicare pay increase, and 120 waivers were granted.
Hospitals in districts represented by a Republican member of Congress who voted for the M.M.A.
were seven times more likely to receive a waiver compared with those in districts of members who voted against it.
On average, these hospitals saw a 6.5 percent increase in Medicare payments, but the 29 hospitals with the biggest payment increases high 508 recipient hospitals received a 10 percent boost.
How did hospitals spend the extra money?
Perhaps unsurprisingly, they started treating more Medicare patients about 8 percent more per year.
They also expanded nursing staffing by roughly a third, and invested in new technologies.
But extra cash also meant big raises for hospital C.E.O.s: nearly half a million dollars per year at each hospital.
Over all, high 508 recipient hospitals had $1.25 billion in additional spending from 2005 to 2010 about 25 percent more than they otherwise would have.
There was no evidence of improved quality or outcomes.
If you told me in advance that wed find this tight a link between Congress and hospitals, I would have been very surprised, Mr. Cooper said.
We knew there was some connection, of course, but the more we kept digging, the stronger and more precise the link became.
Section 508 payment changes were supposed to expire after three years.
But hospitals with lucrative waivers had considerable interest in seeing the program extended, and worked together to form the Section 508 Hospital Coalition.
In the years between passage of the M.M.A., and its reauthorization in 2007, legislators in districts with a Section 508 hospital saw a 22 percent rise in total campaign contributions, and a 65 percent increase in donations from the health care sector specifically.
In the end, a provision that budgeted $900 million over three years led to billions in extra spending for nearly a decade.
Pork, it seems, is as bad for budgets as it is for waistlines.
Every time you pass legislation, big or small, these elements are added in, Mr. Cooper said.
Its not that any single one is hugely offensive.
Its their accumulation and continuation over time.
Although Mr. Coopers research offers perhaps the clearest empirical glimpse of the links between lobbying, earmarks and medical spending, this political maneuvering is not new and Medicare hospital payment seems to be a particularly susceptible target.
Both Democrats and Republicans have won pay increases for hospitals they represent.
In the 1999 budget, the House Republican whip, Tom DeLay, and House Speaker Dennis Hastert reclassified hospitals in their districts into other regions, leading to hundreds of thousands of dollars of extra funding per year.
About a dozen years later, in what was called the Bay State Boondoggle , John Kerry, then a senator, succeeded in lobbying for Medicare to pay Massachusetts urban hospitals at the same rate it paid the states rural hospitals.
The catch: There was only one hospital that qualified as rural in Massachusetts on the wealthy island of Nantucket.
None of this is surprising.
A primary motive of elected representatives is getting re-elected.
Passing expansive legislation like Medicare Part D or the A.C.A.
is hard, especially when legislators cant point to specific benefits for their constituents.
But a critical flaw in our current system is that payments are hugely influenced by politicians who have every incentive to increase them for their own districts.
You cant get upset at a snake for having fangs, Mr. Cooper told me.
We need to design a system that takes payment decisions out of the hands of elected representatives.
We think of interest rates as so important and complicated that weve tried to remove politics and give the responsibility to the Fed.
The same argument holds for health care.
When the government spends a trillion dollars on health care, its too easy for members to direct funds to their districts.
Weve been close to a possible solution.
The A.C.A.
called for establishing an Independent Payment Advisory Board , a 15-member panel charged with making changes to Medicare to control costs.
The proposed reforms would have been put into effect unless Congress introduced alternate policies to achieve the same savings.
But the advisory board faced fierce bipartisan opposition and was never created.
Americas increasingly burdensome health care spending has many roots: new technologies, high drug prices, fragmented care, administrative expenses and the like.
But lobbying and political maneuvering can increase costs, too without clear benefits for patients, communities or society at large.
Often these costs are borne by all of us, while the benefits if any go to a favored few.
Excess medical spending, then, is driven not only by inefficiencies in our health system, but also by those in our political system.
Our solutions, it seems, must confront that uncomfortable reality.
Dhruv Khullar , M.D., M.P.P., is a physician at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and a researcher at the Weill Cornell Department of Healthcare Policy and Research.
Follow him on Twitter at @DhruvKhullar .
The Upshot provides news, analysis and graphics about politics, policy and everyday life.
Follow us on Facebook and Twitter .
Sign up for our newsletter.
Over all, there are 11 districts (out of the 50 districts that ought to be most competitive, by our estimates) where the Democrats dont have a candidate who raised $100,000.
On average, those 11 districts are much less educated than the battlegrounds as a whole; just 31 percent of whites over age 25 have a degree.
In comparison, whites with a degree represent 41 percent of the population in the other 39 districts that ought to be most competitive.
Democratic Fund-Raising Lagging in Working-Class Districts Democratic share of fund-raising in the 50 Republican-held districts that are expected to be most competitive in 2018, by white educational attainment.
20% 40 60 100% 75 50 25 0 Whites with degree Democratic share of fund-raising 20% 30 40 50 60 100% 75 50 25 0 Whites with a college degree Democratic share of fund-raising There is still plenty of time for Democrats to find candidates in those districts.
And even in working-class areas, Democrats are doing far better at recruiting and fund-raising than in recent years.
They have attracted strong recruits in many competitive working-class districts, like Maines Second, New Yorks 21st and Illinoiss 12th.
Democrats even have well-funded challenges in a few working-class districts that werent bound to be competitive at all, like Paul Ryans district in Wisconsin, Kentuckys Sixth or Kansas Second.
And working-class districts are often in less expensive media markets, making it easier for Democrats to make a late bid.
Photo The Democrats will clearly have the money to compete in expensive markets like Los Angeles and New York.
Theyve posted staggering fund-raising totals in many of the best-educated districts, often outpacing longtime Republican congressmen.
If anything, Democrats might have the opposite problem in these well-educated areas: too many viable candidates.
In Orange County, Calif., Democratic challengers have outraised Republican incumbents by a two-to-one margin this year, even though the Republicans got a head start before their Democratic challengers entered the race.
But theres a catch: There are 15 Democratic candidates who have raised more than $100,000 in just those four districts, setting up a series of costly primaries that might ultimately prove detrimental to the partys general election chances.
Theres a similar pattern in well-educated districts across the country.
Democrats Have Many Candidates in Well-Educated Districts Number of Democrats who have raised over $100,000 in the 50 Republican-held districts that are expected to be most competitive in 2018.
20% 40 60 6 4 2 0 Number of Dems over $100k Whites with a degree Number of Democrats who have raised over $100,000 in the 50 Republican-held districts that are expected to be most competitive in 2018.
20% 30 40 50 60 6 4 2 0 Pct.
whites with a degree Number of Dems over $100k The abundance of Democratic challengers in these well-educated districts is a reflection of huge enthusiasm.
In these areas, theres no shortage of well-to-do and well-connected political novices looking to do something about Mr. Trumps presidency, just as there was no shortage of well-educated Democrats lining up for the Jan. 21 Womens March or donating to the campaign of Jon Ossoff in Georgias Sixth District special election.
Few established politicians are standing in the way of these political newcomers.
The Democratic bench is quite weak in these traditionally Republican and often heavily gerrymandered areas.
There are no obvious contenders strong enough to clear the field.
The enthusiasm among well-educated Democrats and the relative lack of success recruiting established politicians in working-class areas has occasionally led to an odd mismatch: affluent, liberal types running in working-class districts.
Take Josh Harder, who worked for a San Francisco venture capital firm but is now running in Californias typically competitive 10th District in the Central Valley, or ex-Obama administration officials like Elissa Slotkin, Lauren Baer and Andy Kim, who are running in middle-class districts in Michigan, Florida and New Jersey.
The good news for Democrats is that they dont need perfect recruits to pull off big wins if its a so-called wave election year.
Mr. Ossoff was a true political novice and still came close to winning, and the 2006 and 2010 wave midterm elections are full of examples of fairly weak recruits who pulled off important victories.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the G.O.P.
starts from a position of strength: The Democrats path to a House majority is much more challenging than it was in 2006, or than it was for the Republicans in 2010.
They cant afford to leave many districts like New Yorks 24th or Californias 21st off the board.
Before the study period, about 20 percent of the children chose an apple, and 80 percent the cookie.
But when researchers put an Elmo sticker on the apple, more than a third chose it.
Thats a significant result, and from a cheap, easily replicated intervention.
While the intervention seems simple, any study like this is anything but.
For many reasons, doing research in nutrition is very, very hard.
Photo First, the researchers have to fund their work, which can take years.
Then the work has to be vetted and approved by an Institutional Review Board, which safeguards subjects from potential harm.
I.R.B.s are especially vigilant when studies involve children, a vulnerable group.
Even if the research is of minimal risk, this process can take months.
Then theres getting permission from schools to do the work.
As you can imagine, many are resistant to allowing research on their premises.
Often, protocols and rules require getting permission from parents to allow their children to be part of studies.
If parents (understandably) refuse, figuring out how to do the work without involving some children can be tricky.
Finally, many methodological decisions come into play.
Lets imagine that we want to do a simple test of cookies versus apples, plus or minus stickers as this study did.
Its possible that children eat different things on different days, so we need to make sure that we test them on multiple days of the week.
Its possible that they might change their behavior once, but then go back to their old ways, so we need to test responses over time.
Its possible that handing out the cookie or apple personally might change behavior more than just leaving the choices out for display.
If thats the case, we need to stay hidden and observe unobtrusively.
This matters because in the real world its probably not feasible to have someone handing out these foods in schools, and we need the methods to mirror what will most likely happen later.
Its also possible that the choices might differ based on whether children can take both the apple and the cookie (in which case they could get the sticker and the treat) or whether they had to choose one.
I point out all these things to reinforce that this type of research isnt as simple as many might initially think.
Without addressing these questions, and more, the work may be flawed or not easily generalized.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These difficulties are some of the reasons so much research on food and nutrition is done with animals, like mice.
We dont need to worry as much about I.R.B.s or getting a school on board.
We dont have to worry about mice noticing whos recording data.
And we can control what theyre offered to eat, every meal of every day.
But the same things that make animal studies so much easier to perform also make them much less meaningful.
Human eating and nutrition are typically more complex than anything a mouse would encounter.
Overcoming these problems and proving spectacular results in preteens are some of the reasons this study on cookies and apples, and others like it, are so compelling.
The authors have transformed this work into popular appearances, books and publicity for the Food and Brand Lab.
Photo But cracks began to appear in Mr. Wansinks and the Food and Brand Labs work not long ago, when other researchers noted discrepancies in some of his studies.
The numbers didnt add up; odd things appeared in the data, including the study on apples and cookies.
The issues were significant enough that JAMA Pediatrics retracted the original article, and the researchers posted a replacement.
The problems didnt end there.
As Stephanie Lee at BuzzFeed recently reported, it appears that the study wasnt conducted on 8-to-11-year-olds as published.
It was done on 3-to-5-year-olds.
Just as mice cant be easily extrapolated to humans, research done on 3-to-5-year-olds doesnt necessarily generalize to 8-to-11-year-olds.
Putting an Elmo sticker on an apple for a small child might matter, but that doesnt mean it will for a fifth grader.
On Friday, the study was fully retracted.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Making things worse, this may have happened in other publications.
Ms. Lee has also reported on a study published in Preventive Medicine in 2012 that claimed that children are more likely to eat vegetables if you give them a cool name, like X-ray Vision Carrots.
That study, too, may be retracted or corrected, along with a host of others.
As a researcher, and one who works with children, I find it hard to understand how you could do a study of 3-to-5-year-olds, analyze the data, write it up and then somehow forget and imagine it happened with 8-to-11-year-olds.
The grant application would have required detail on the study subjects, as well as justification for the age ranges.
The I.R.B.
would require researchers to be specific about the ages of the children studied.
I reached out to the authors of the study to ask how this could have happened, and Mr. Wansink replied: The explanation for mislabeling of the age groups in the study is both simple and embarrassing.
I was not present for the 2008 data collection, and when I later wrote the paper I wrongly inferred that these children must have been the typical age range of elementary students we usually study.
Instead, I discovered that while the data was indeed collected in elementary schools, it was actually collected at Head Start day cares that happened to meet in those elementary schools.
This is a level of disconnect that many scientists would find inconceivable, and I do not mean to suggest that this is the norm for nutrition research.
It does, however, illustrate how an inattention to detail can derail what might be promising work.
The difficulties of research in this area are already significant.
Distrust makes things worse.
The social sciences are already suffering from a replication problem; when work that makes a big splash fails to hold up, it hurts science in general.
We want to believe there are easy fixes to the obesity epidemic and nutrition in general.
We want to believe there are simple actions we can take, like putting labels on menus, or stickers on food, or jazzing up the names of vegetables.
Sadly, all of that may not work, regardless of what advocates say.
When nutrition solutions sound too good to be true, theres a good chance they are.
Since the 2016 presidential campaign, Facebook has taken a number of actions to prevent the continued distribution of false news articles on its platform, most notably by labeling articles rated as false or misleading by fact checkers as disputed.
But how effective are these measures?
To date, Facebook has offered little information to the public other than a recent email to fact checkers asserting that labeled articles receive 80 percent fewer impressions.
But more data is necessary to determine the success of these efforts.
Research (including my own) suggests the need to carefully evaluate the effectiveness of Facebooks interventions.
Yales Gordon Pennycook and David Rand offer two principal warnings.
First, the effects of exposure to false information are not easily countered by labeling, as they find in a paper they wrote with Tyrone D. Cannon.
False information we have previously encountered feels more familiar, producing a feeling of fluency that causes us to rate it as more accurate than information we have not seen before.
This effect persists even when Facebook-style warnings label a headline disputed.
We should be cautious about assuming that labels tagging articles as false are enough to prevent misinformation on social media from affecting peoples beliefs.
Photo In a second paper, Mr. Pennycook and Mr. Rand find that the presence of disputed labels causes study participants to rate unlabeled false stories as slightly more accurate an implied truth effect.
If Facebook is seen as taking responsibility for the accuracy of information in its news feed through labeling, readers could start assuming that unlabeled stories have survived scrutiny from fact checkers (which is rarely correct there are far too many for humans to check everything).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Encouragingly, my students at Dartmouth College and I find that the effects of Facebook-style disputed banners on the perceived accuracy of false headlines are larger than those Mr. Pennycook and Mr. Rand observed.
The proportion of respondents rating a false headline as somewhat or very accurate in our study decreased to 19 percent with the standard Facebook disputed banner, from 29 percent in the unlabeled condition.
It goes down even further, to 16 percent, when the warning instead states that the headline is rated false.
(We find no evidence of a large implied truth effect, though we lack the statistical precision necessary to detect effects of the size Mr. Pennycook and Mr. Rand measure.)
Other results suggest further reason for caution.
Back in April, Facebook provided users with Tips to Spot False News in an article that was linked above users news feeds.
We find that general warnings of this sort are also potentially counterproductive.
When we showed a warning reminding users to remain skeptical and think critically to spot misleading articles, it did reduce belief in the accuracy of false news headlines somewhat but it also somewhat reduced the perceived accuracy of news articles that were not false.
Readers seemed to become more skeptical of all the headlines that they encountered.
(A similar effect was not observed for the fact-check banners.)
After the public uprising in response to the 2014 police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., advocates and many police officials turned to cameras as a way to reduce violent encounters and build trust.
By 2015, 95 percent of large police departments reported they were using body cameras or had committed to doing so in the near future, according to a national survey.
Photo The cameras provide an independent, if sometimes ambiguous, record of police-civilian encounters.
Until now, the most commonly cited study on police body cameras had suggested that cameras did indeed have a calming effect.
That experiment took place in 2012 in Rialto, Calif., where officers were randomly assigned cameras based on their shifts.
Over a year, shifts that included cameras experienced half as many use-of-force incidents (including the use of a police baton, Taser or gun) as those shifts without cameras.
The number of complaints filed by civilians against officers also declined a stunning 90 percent compared with the previous year.
The Rialto study had a big impact in policing.
Axon (formerly known as Taser International) has sold more than 300,000 police cameras worldwide and cites the Rialto study on its website.
A federal district judge also cited the study in 2013 when she ordered the New York City Police Department to conduct a yearlong pilot program using body cameras.
(Results are due out this spring.)
But the Rialto experiment featured just 54 officers, compared with over 2,000 in Washington.
Officers in Washington captured five times as many hours of video.
The larger sample size and the long-term way the cameras were assigned added to the reliability of the D.C. results.
This is the most important empirical study on the impact of police body-worn cameras to date, said Harlan Yu from Upturn, a Washington, D.C., nonprofit consulting company that studies how technology affects social issues.
It was not directly involved in the research.
The results call into question whether police departments should be adopting body-worn cameras, given their high cost.
The federal government has given police departments more than $40 million to invest in body cameras, and state and local authorities have spent many millions more.
The devices vary in price, but the biggest expense is the data-storage cost.
In Washington, M.P.D.
officers collect about a thousand hours of footage a day.
About 40 percent of it is deleted within 90 days, while the rest is to be kept for months, years or decades, depending on the statute of limitations for the charges connected to the footage.
Video The cameras also have a cost in terms of privacy violations.
In a report on the policies governing police body cams in 50 major departments, Upturn and the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights found that many cities have weak rules in place.
Those rules can allow departments to refuse to share footage with civilians who want to file complaints, for example.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some companies are exploring ways to integrate facial recognition software into police cameras, a level of surveillance that would disproportionately affect low-income minority communities, where the police tend to spend the most time.
D.C. has relatively strong body-worn-camera procedures, Mr. Yu said.
In cities that have weaker policies, its certainly possible that the cameras may be doing more harm than good.
Like other advocacy groups, the American Civil Liberties Union has supported body cameras.
But the study, says Monica Hopkins-Maxwell at the A.C.L.U.
of D.C., should give us pause.
For now, Washington officials say they intend to continue using cameras.
But they admit to being surprised by the findings.
I thought it would make a difference on police and civilian behavior particularly for officers, and this is the exception, who might be more inclined to misbehave, said the M.P.D.
chief, Peter Newsham.
Why didnt the cameras change behavior?
After all, we know that other cameras do change behavior.
Public closed-circuit TV cameras seem to lead to a moderate decrease in crime, particularly in parking garages.
Traffic cameras significantly decrease speeding and fatal accidents.
Even the suggestion that someone is watching us tends to influence us: In 2011, researchers at Newcastle University in England posted pictures of a pair of male eyes and the caption, Cycle Thieves: We Are Watching You.
Bike thefts decreased by 62 percent in those locations and not elsewhere.
One hypothesis is that officers got used to the cameras and became desensitized to them.
But the researchers saw no difference in behavior during the initial phase, when the cameras were new.
(The researchers also checked the data to make sure officers were turning their cameras on when they were supposed to, and found a very high level of compliance.)
Another possibility is that officers without cameras were acting like officers with cameras, simply because they knew other officers had the devices.
An equally plausible explanation has to do with fear: In Washington, police officers are instructed to turn on their cameras whenever they answer a call or encounter the public in a law-enforcement context.
The kinds of situations that might lead to civilian complaints or use-of-force incidents are high-stress encounters.
When frightened, humans tend to act on automatic fear responses (or, in the case of good police officers in an ideal world, training).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its a lot to ask, psychologically speaking, to not only remember the camera is on but to moderate your behavior, said Mr. Yokum, the head of the Lab @ DC.
Photo Finally, cameras may have had less impact in Washington, because the police department there has already had to confront excessive-force problems.
After a devastating 1998 Washington Post series revealed that the citys police department had shot and killed more people per resident in the 1990s than any other police force in a large American city, the Department of Justice entered into a memorandum of agreement with D.C. to reform its policing.
We went through a transformation with regard to use of force when Justice came in here, Chief Newsham said.
Cities that lack such accountability in their police culture may find cameras more effective, under this theory.
(The Rialto Police Department had been reeling from a series of scandals when the Rialto study showed a large impact from cameras.)
Even if cameras do not reduce violent encounters, they can still offer other kinds of benefits: for training, or to hold a rogue officer accountable after the fact.
To Chief Newsham, the cameras primary benefit is to improve relations with the community.
The transparency and trust that the community has, knowing your department is recording the interactions, I dont think you can undervalue that, he said.
So far, its hard to say for sure if cameras increase trust, but Chief Newsham said hed like to find out more through additional studies like this one.
The nine-person research team pre-published its design online, so that there would be less temptation to rejigger the approach after the results were in (an emerging best practice in social science research).
We like to be very anecdotal in policing to compare this year to that year, said M.P.D.
Commander Ralph Ennis, who oversaw the rollout of the cameras and worked closely with researchers.
This study is a whole other thing.
An updated version of this article, with more about the national implications of the Washington, D.C., study of police body cameras, can be found here.
Over the course of Fed history, we find a dozen and a half other episodes of major overhaul.
Some empower the Fed, others limit its autonomy, and some, like Dodd-Frank, do both.
Controlling for the duration of recessions, Congress is more likely to amend the Federal Reserve Act when inflation and unemployment tick substantially higher.
Congress is also more likely to act when electoral rewards are greatest.
If one party controls both the White House and Congress, voters know whom to reward or blame.
If the parties divide power, voters have a harder time.
Congress is more likely to threaten action than to take it.
Using legislative records to document lawmakers attention to the Fed, we examined all the bills introduced in the House and Senate between 1947 and 2014 that address the power, structure and governance of the central bank.
Over nearly seven decades, 333 House and Senate members introduced 879 bills.
Fingers Point at the Fed When the Economy Misfires Higher unemployment is correlated with the number of congressional bills between 1947 and 2014 addressing the power and governance of the Fed.
1960 1980 2000 bills introduced per year 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 1960 1980 2000 bills introduced per year 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Viewing the number of bills introduced each year (1947-2014) in the context of when the unemployment rate was above its median makes the pattern clear.
When the economy hums, lawmakers leave the Fed alone.
For example, congressional attention dropped markedly during Alan Greenspans Great Moderation starting in the 1980s, when the Fed tended to achieve its mandates.
When the economy sours, most recently in the wake of the global financial crisis, reactive lawmakers pummel the Fed.
The Fed today remains caught in the cross hairs of partisan polarization.
Republican proposals to limit its discretion, for instance, would require the Fed to adopt rate-setting monetary policy rules.
Others want greater transparency from the Fed, such as allowing auditors to review monetary policy deliberations.
Even though the current Fed is still occupied by Obama appointees, Democrats are also critical, favoring stronger limits on emergency lending.
Threats matter because they restrict Fed autonomy.
Fed officials understand that responsiveness, sometimes even deference, to their congressional bosses lessens the chance that Congress and the president will revise the Federal Reserve Act.
Photo Critics in Congress take aim at both monetary goals and tools.
In July, the House financial services chairman, Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, warned Ms. Yellen that the Fed should cease and desist from buying assets that venture into fiscal policy: If we are not careful, we may wake up one day to find our central bankers have instead become our central planners.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Feds 2012 adoption of an inflation target also belies any notion of Fed independence.
Ben Bernanke, then the Fed chairman, first broached the subject with his colleagues a decade earlier.
Fed transcripts reveal acute sensitivity to securing congressional support.
As Donald Kohn, then the Fed vice chairman, argued in 2008, having an inflation target wont have any effect if it is repudiated by the Congress.
In the immediate wake of the financial crisis, the perceived political risk of setting a target again deterred Fed action.
The Fed did not adopt its target until unemployment had finally subsided, years after the crisis.
Even today, when former Fed officials recommend a higher inflation goal to generate greater growth, G.O.P.
lawmakers direct Ms. Yellen not to change the target.
Perhaps the Fed would be less eager to raise interest rates again if it could independently raise the inflation bar instead.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
As President Trump thinks about whether to choose a new Fed leader, Ms. Yellen, whose term expires in February, and her colleagues have been busy normalizing monetary policy.
A decade after the financial crisis and near generational lows in unemployment, the Fed is finally unwinding its four-plus-trillion-dollar balance sheet, gradually raising interest rates and keeping an eye on inflation that has been below the desired target.
This Fed seems eager to drop Mr. Bernankes crisis prescriptions.
At her September news conference, however, Ms. Yellen reminded market participants that future policy makers would have a free hand to follow the Bernanke playbook the next time the country faces a financial crisis.
Rates could return to zero, the balance sheet could be expanded, and so-called forward guidance could provide clear communication about future policy.
Political interdependence cautions against such certainty.
Some of the contenders to replace Ms. Yellen, like Kevin Warsh and John Taylor, show little interest in Mr. Bernankes unconventional policies, underscoring the efficacy of congressional threats.
And President Trumps rare opportunity to overhaul the Board of Governors makes room for skeptics of the Feds financial crisis response.
A new Fed, backed by an expanding economy, may temporarily quiet the legislative critics.
But whether in this presidential term or some later one, an inevitable economic slowdown or a more serious financial panic will surely restart the cycle of crisis, blame and reform.
It would make it easier for state governments to tweak Obamacares rules on how they run their markets, easing the way for more experiments.
The draft bill would make the application process for such state innovation waivers easier to complete, but would still require that the state plans cover a similar number of residents and offer insurance with comparable affordability to plans established under the Affordable Care Act.
It would allow more Americans to sign up for very high-deductible insurance plans known as catastrophic insurance under the Affordable Care Act.
The current law limits those plans to customers under 30 years old, or those who have demonstrated they cannot afford other insurance options.
The draft legislation would also ensure that the federal government assigns money for advertising about the Obamacare enrollment period and for hiring professionals to help customers select and sign up for plans; the money would be a portion of the fees it collects from insurers selling plans on HealthCare.gov.
The Trump administration had slashed the budget for both programs in August.
It does not include one of the industrys biggest requests: funding that would protect insurers from high costs associated with very expensive patients.
Insurers and other experts who testified before the Senate health committee said such a program could help substantially lower premiums.
But states may be able to use innovation waivers to establish such programs themselves.
Alaska has already had such a waiver approved by the Trump administration.
The insurers were generally supportive of the plan, and one of the main associations, Americas Health Insurance Plans, came out with a statement in favor of the proposed bill.
But some emphasized that the legislation does not fix all of what ails the market.
Weve stated repeatedly that the individual market is not stable, said Joseph R. Swedish, the chief executive of Anthem, a large for-profit insurer that offers Blue Cross plans in several states, although he praised lawmakers efforts to provide more certainty in 2019.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The deals prospects in Congress remain uncertain.
Though some senators from each party have endorsed its approach, several Republicans have spoken out against it.
In the House, a spokesman for Speaker Paul Ryan said that the Senate should keep its focus on repeal and replace of Obamacare.
But even if the deal moves forward quickly, it is unlikely to affect next years health plans.
Carriers in most states have raised their prices substantially to make up for the canceled federal payments, and there is little time for them to lower them again if the payments are restored.
(The draft bill tries to address this problem, by asking states to establish a new rebate program, where carriers who get paid twice would need to pay back the federal government.)
For 2018, it probably wont happen in time, said Timothy Jost, an emeritus professor of law at Washington and Lee University, who monitors health legislation closely.
The carriers are thinking now about 2019, and its very important for 2019.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Insurance plans for each year go on sale during the prior fall, but the process of devising plans and setting prices begins months earlier.
This year, many current insurers announced their exits from the 2018 Obamacare markets months ago, some explicitly naming President Trumps threats about the cost-sharing payments as a reason.
Analysts said it was unclear whether the plan might lure reluctant insurers back into the markets, but they said the funding would cause many insurance premiums to fall in 2019.
But the lengthy planning process of insurers means that the proposed bills two-year funding cycle could lead to another round of price increases in 2020, if an extension bill isnt passed far in advance.
Many insurers had been hoping that the Alexander-Murray legislation would make the funding permanent.
While Mr. Trump has insisted he will not support any legislation that he believes to be a bailout to the insurers, policy experts say the insurers are getting only what they are due under the law.
Because the insurers set the prices for their 2017 plans assuming they would receive the federal funding, the presidents decision represents more than $1 billion in lost payments, according to a recent analysis from Avalere Health, a consulting firm.
The funding has not contributed to outsize profits for the insurers selling individual policies under the law, in spite of Mr. Trumps recent tweet about the insurers who have made a fortune w/ OCare.
Most insurance companies have lost money trying to pursue these exchange markets, said Dan Mendelson, Avaleres president.
Under the Affordable Care Act, insurers are not allowed to pocket more than 20 percent of their premium dollars for overhead and profits.
If they earn more, they are required to return the excess to consumers through rebates.
The insurers generally lost money in the first three years of the Obamacare market, said Deep Banerjee, an analyst for Standard & Poors, though it appears they were faring better this year, before the cancellation of government payments.
It is not a market that has been profitable for them, he said.
While there are exceptions, most insurers are making their money in other insurance markets like the government programs Medicare and Medicaid as well as in the much larger employer market.
It gives the market some measure of predictability, Mr. Banerjee said, but he emphasized that the legislation is not a permanent solution.
Much of what it does is restore the funding that already existed before President Trumps announcement that he was cutting it off.
Its not a huge additional support for the market.
Ninety-six percent of respondents say gender equality is important, but they disagree on whether it has been achieved.
Half say the country hasnt gone far enough in giving women equal rights, about 40 percent say it has been about right, and 10 percent say it has gone too far.
A Partisan Divide on the Benefits of Changing Gender Roles Changing gender roles have made it easier for: REPUBLICANS DEMOCRATS Women to lead satisfying lives Women to be successful at work Families to earn enough to live comfortably Men to lead satisfying lives Parents to raise children Marriages to be successful Men to be successful at work 36% 53% 40% 30% 32% 26% 23% 58% 57% 54% 48% 48% 47% 27% agree Republicans Democrats Women to lead satisfying lives Women to be successful at work Families to earn enough to live comfortably Men to lead satisfying lives Parents to raise children Marriages to be successful Men to be successful at work 36% 53% 40% 30% 32% 26% 23% 58% 57% 54% 48% 48% 47% 27% agree There really is no consensus among the public about whether changing roles have made things better or easier for families or for men and women, said Juliana Horowitz, associate director of research at Pew and an author of the report.
Although there are small gender gaps, the partisan divide drives the differences in responses, she said.
Democrats were much more likely than Republicans to say changing gender roles had improved peoples lives.
College graduates were also more likely than those without college degrees to say that changing gender roles were a good thing, and that more needed to be done.
Of college graduates, 69 percent said men had it easier, compared with 27 percent of those with a high school education or less who said so.
Seventy-one percent of college graduates said changing gender roles had given women more satisfying lives, compared with 49 percent of those without college degrees.
Views about gender equality reflected experiences with gender discrimination, particularly at work.
Women, Democrats and college graduates were much more likely to say they were discriminated against because of their gender, and more likely to think gender equality had not gone far enough.
Male privilege allows men to be free to move about in public without threat of harassment, a woman, 54, told Pew, which published responses anonymously.
When they speak, they are assumed to have some authority without having to prove it.
They still earn more money than women.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But Republican men were more likely than Democratic men to say they had experienced discrimination.
And while only 10 percent of the public said the country had gone too far toward gender equality, 23 percent of men who said they experienced discrimination said so.
The largest shares of both men and women who said they experienced gender discrimination said it came in hiring, pay or promotions.
Ten percent of women said they had experienced harassment or catcalling.
People who say women have it easier these days say women get preferential treatment in job opportunities, and those who think men have it easier say they have better pay and job opportunities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When asked how women have it easier, one respondent, a 53-year-old man, said, Lower standards for the same positions in order to get more women for those positions.
Another man, 46, said: Everyone is on the prowl for perceived injustice and attempts to elevate women of all ages.
Not so much for males.
Explaining why men have it easier, a 29-year-old man said, You simply need to look at the percentages of male C.E.O.s and relative salaries to see there is likely a systematic advantage to being male.
Women have benefited more than men from being employed and from having men doing more at home, respondents said.
But even for women, fewer than half of respondents said changing gender roles had benefited them outside work.
This might be because even though most women work and men do more at home, women still shoulder the bulk of the family responsibilities.
When asked how its easier to be a man, one respondent, a woman, 65, said: Because most of them dont have to work outside the home and take care of the children and everything else a woman normally does.
A womans work is never done.
The Sidewalk Labs proposal in the competitive bid for the project floated all kinds of technological dreams: a thermal energy grid that would be carbon neutral, sensors that separate waste from recycling, modular buildings that convert from retail to housing, monitors that track noise and pollution, self-driving transit shuttles, shared-ride taxibots, adaptive traffic lights, delivery robots, heated bike paths and sidewalks that melt snow on their own.
In theory, each of these ideas would be best tested across more than just one building or street, and all of them would be more easily implemented together.
Once you cover your traffic lights in sensors, its easier to turn them into air-quality monitors, too; as long as youre redesigning streets around driverless cars, you can also think about what the delivery robots need.
Photo The prospect of a city designed by technologists, at least as a thought experiment until now, has made some nervous, urbanists especially.
The tech industry is better known in its Silicon Valley backyard for contributing to rather than solving urban problems like unaffordable housing and traffic.
And its corporate campuses are mostly models of how not to build cities, with mega office parks (and spaceship designs) dependent on cars and detached from their neighboring communities.
Theres no small contradiction in having tech founders muse about how to build better cities from places that bear little resemblance to lively cities at all.
The tech industry also thrives by working in ways that can be incompatible with public-sector city building.
Its hard to move fast and break things in government, and public funds dont allow for the failure rates that venture capital does.
New tech products are often targeted to early adopters, and they spread to the rest of us later.
But you cant do that with innovations in public service; if the tech savvy get the nicer bus routes or the new Wi-Fi kiosks first, that raises equity issues for the rest of the city.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Theres also the hitch that cities are inherently organic and unpredictable.
They resist omniscient engineering.
And past efforts at doing that whether through the urban renewal of individual neighborhoods or the wholesale development of utopias have invariably failed for that reason.
Many intractable urban problems are in fact not engineering problems at all, including the ones that most look like it.
Housing is very expensive in a place like San Francisco not because we havent developed the right engineering methods to build it more cheaply.
Unaffordable housing is largely a political problem we havent developed the societal consensus to build enough of it.
Sidewalk Labs, to its credit, has internalized many of these criticisms.
The company, formed by Google two years ago, has pointedly been based in New York City and not Silicon Valley.
Its staffed by both technologists and government alums.
Its leader, the former New York City deputy mayor Dan Doctoroff, openly acknowledges the gulf between technologists and city government types.
And Sidewalk Labs says it wants to bridge the two.
Photo We all collectively see cities as about friction: good friction and bad friction, Mr. Doctoroff told me not long after Sidewalk Labs started.
Good friction is serendipity, its opportunity, its diversity, its seeing 40 different nationalities on the subway as you commute in the morning.
Bad friction is congestion, its pollution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The technologists temptation may be to try to build a city from scratch, with none of that friction.
And especially without the greatest friction of all, politics.
In Toronto, Sidewalk Labs is looking at something between a blank slate and New York City: a sizable plot of land to develop thats still part of a city large enough that any successful ideas could ultimately spread.
Because its looking at a neighborhood and not just a typical developers parcel, Sidewalk Labs can play with all the infrastructure that connects those parcels the utility grid, the street network, the sidewalks.
But there would be no point in doing all that if there werent thousands of people nearby ready to move in, as is the case in rapidly growing Toronto.
(Google also announced Tuesday that it would move its Canadian headquarters, which are in Toronto, into the first pilot phase of the development.)
The challenge now amid all the carbon-neutral, internet-enabled robot-monitor sensors will be to keep those humans in mind.
The insurer-regulator hack will mean that navigating the Obamacare marketplace will be more complicated for consumers (more on that later).
And the change will cost taxpayers more money perhaps $21 billion more in 2018 alone.
But, in the end, most customers will be unharmed by the presidents decision, and a substantial fraction will be better off, able to buy plans for about the same price they pay now, yet with lower deductibles.
The presidents move was to cut off a form of Obamacare funding known as the cost-sharing reduction subsidies.
Those were payments the government made to health insurers to compensate them for lowering the deductibles and co-payments for low-income customers.
But he didnt cut off another, more important form of subsidy.
The Affordable Care Act also includes tax credits that help low- and middle-income Americans pay their insurance premiums.
Those tax credits increase in value along with the price of a certain midlevel insurance plan, known as silver.
If you qualify for a subsidy, you can never be asked to pay more for that plan than a set fraction of your income.
Insurers in more than 40 states have decided to compensate for the missing cost-sharing subsidies by making hefty increases to the prices of this silver plan but small or no increases to their other plans.
Consumers who qualify for subsidies are still asked to pay the same fraction of their income toward a health plan, and the federal government pays the insurers the rest of the higher silver-plan premium.
So consumers are no worse off, and insurers make up for the loss of the cost-sharing subsidies canceled by Mr. Trump.
And for many Obamacare consumers, theres also a silver lining in these pricier silver plans.
There are other kinds of plans being sold on the marketplace: high-deductible plans called bronze and low-deductible plans called gold and platinum.
Consumers can use their subsidy to buy any color plan they like.
And, with the price of silver plans rising faster than the other categories, most consumers with subsidies will now be able to buy a lower-deductible health plan for the same price as the silver plans that are currently most popular on the exchanges.
(They can also choose to buy high-deductible bronze plans for very low prices, or in some cases get them free.)
This was a backdoor, unintended way of increasing premium subsidies for some people, said Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group.
The new pricing structure is the worst for people who earn too much to qualify for a subsidy those earning more than four times the federal poverty level, or about $100,000 a year for a family of four.
But most of them will also be protected from the cost increases.
If they avoid silver plans sold on the Obamacare marketplaces in most states, they can find plans that dont have the special, Trump-prompted increases.
That means that unsubsidized customers who want to buy silver plans will probably need to shop outside of HealthCare.gov, through a human or online broker.
Or they can buy a bronze, gold or platinum plan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its a convoluted kludge of a workaround, said David Anderson, a research associate at the Duke University Margolis Center for Health Policy, who has looked closely at how carriers are pricing their plans.
But Mr. Anderson said he thought the upside was strong enough that Congress should abandon its efforts to restore the canceled subsidies.
A lot of people are going to see during open enrollment that they are going to be able to afford a better plan with lower deductibles and lower premiums than they could this year, he said.
There are still downsides.
It is possible that insurers, worried about the lost payments and thin on trust for the federal government, will flee the markets before the enrollment period starts at the beginning of next month.
But no major insurer departures have been announced since the president announced his decision on Thursday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
There are a few states where insurance regulators didnt allow insurers to increase only their silver plan prices.
In those states, subsidized customers will be held harmless but no one will get a cheaper gold plan, and unsubsidized customers will face price increases.
There are some states where there is no individual market outside the Obamacare marketplace, and in those places, unsubsidized customers wont be able to get a good deal on a silver plan (though they can still buy another color plan).
Perhaps the biggest problem: Shopping for a plan is going to be harder.
Many Obamacare customers who just renew this years plan will be passing up a better deal, and many scared of initial sticker shock may not realize there are cheaper options.
In addition to eliminating the cost-sharing reduction subsidies, President Trumps administration has also cut back on funds for advertising about the marketplaces and on professionals who help customers sign up.
(The Alexander-Murray deal would restore much of that funding, but probably not soon enough to make a big difference.)
Its hard, said Lori Lodes, a former Obama administration official and co-founder of a new nonprofit group, Get America Covered, focused on helping spread the word about Obamacare enrollment.
She says she worries about growing consumer confusion: My biggest concern is really I do not believe that the administration will educate people about this, and so there is going to be an information gap.
But the Congressional Budget Office, when considering the effects of ending the cost-sharing subsidies a few months ago, concluded that, over time, the strategy of raising the price of only silver plans would become widespread, and that consumers would figure it out.
It estimated that, by 2020, a world with no cost-sharing reductions would be a world with fewer uninsured Americans.
The increased subsidies would make purchasing nongroup insurance more attractive for some people, increasing sign-ups, the report said.
Mr. Alexander and Ms. Murrays newly announced proposal would fund the payments for two years, increase advertising for the marketplaces and make it easier for states to experiment on how they run their insurance markets.
Mr. Trump has indicated that he might sign such a bill.
But the deal, even if it does pass Congress, comes too late to affect insurance prices for next year.
In 2018, at least, we will be living in a world of high-priced silver plans.
Luckily for those who need insurance, that may not turn out as badly as many people had feared.
Its a different story with agricultural economies.
The Cutler, Huang and Lleras-Muney study, published as a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper, found that mortality rates fall when such economies are growing.
Before 1945, when agriculture was more dominant in the United States economy, growth was not associated with rising mortality either.
Photo Other research published in the journal Health Economics supports the pollution hypothesis.
In their analysis of the Great Recession in Europe, Jos Tapia Granados of Drexel University and Edward Ionides of the University of Michigan found that a one-percentage-point increase in the unemployment rate is associated with a one percent lower mortality rate for respiratory illnesses, as well as reductions in mortality for cardiovascular disease and heart conditions, which are known to be sensitive to air pollution.
In countries where the recession was more severe the Baltic States, Spain, Greece and Slovenia respiratory disease mortality fell 16 percent during 2007-2010, compared with just a 3.2 percent decline in the four years preceding the recession.
Other factors contribute to rising mortality during expansions.
Occupational hazards and stress can directly harm health through work.
Some studies find that alcohol and tobacco consumption increases during booms, too.
Both are associated with higher death rates.
Also, employed people drive more, increasing mortality from auto accidents.
During recessions, people without jobs may have more time to sleep and exercise and may eat more healthfully.
One study found that higher unemployment is associated with lower rates of obesity, increased physical activity and a better diet.
On the other hand, suicides increase during economic downturns.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Some recent work suggests that economic booms may have become less deadly and busts more so in recent years.
This could be a result of less polluting production in modern, expanding economies, or of better medical care for those with conditions sensitive to pollution.
Safer roads and cars, and less driving under the influence of alcohol and other substances, could also play a role.
Its also possible that opioids and other drugs may have made recessions more harmful to health than they used to be, Mr. Cutler said.
Other analysis shows that although smaller economic booms increase mortality, larger ones decrease it.
Japans economic booms in the 1960s and 1970s are associated with longer life spans there, for example.
Serious and lengthy downturns like the Great Depression are associated with shorter lives, even as smaller ones lengthen them.
Wealthier nations are healthier nations, an effect seen across generations.
People in their formative years children and teenagers are particularly sensitive to the economic environment.
Conditions in utero can have lasting health and economic effects.
Graduating from college during a recession can depress ones earnings for a decade.
People growing up during a strong economy are more likely to have access to resources and to develop skills and opportunities that promote health.
These benefits can last a lifetime, increasing longevity.
In total, theres little question that long-term economic growth broadly improves the human condition.
But not everyone enjoys the gains equally.
In the short run, economic expansions can cut short the lives of some.
In new survey data, though, there are some provocative patterns.
Researchers at the U.C.
Davis Institute of Transportation Studies surveyed 2,000 people about their travel behavior in seven major metro areas, including New York, Chicago and Los Angeles, and including people who live in their suburbs and those who dont use these services.
Photo The results suggest that ride-hailing draws people away from public transit.
And the authors, Regina Clewlow and Gouri Shankar Mishra, estimate that 49 percent to 61 percent of ride-hailing trips either wouldnt have been made at all if these apps didnt exist, or would have been made by foot, biking or transit.
All of those trips, in other words, added cars to the road that otherwise wouldnt have been there.
That picture implies that Uber and the like could make traffic worse.
And lets further assume that many of those trips additionally require drivers to cruise around waiting for rides, and to deadhead occasionally after the rides are over (to return to, say, the airport with an empty back seat).
Among people who use these apps, 3 percent said they rode heavy rail like subway systems more since starting to ride-hail.
Thats consistent with the idea that apps could help you travel the last mile home from the train if you dont live near a stop, or that they could help you cobble together transportation options once you ditch your own car.
But 6 percent said they rode the bus less, and 3 percent said the same of light rail.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Among the most common reasons people gave for turning away from transit: Service was too slow or unreliable.
It potentially does not bode well for public transit, then, that just as these apps are growing more dominant, transit systems in cities like New York, Washington and San Francisco are facing deep problems.
In New York, where other data has also suggested that ride-hailing lures riders away from public transit, officials have speculated about Ubers role in recent declining subway ridership.
Austin, Tex., offers another intriguing case study.
In May 2016, Uber and Lyft temporarily pulled out of the city over a new law that required the companies to submit drivers to fingerprint background checks.
Their departure created a natural experiment, and afterward researchers at the University of Michigan, Texas A&M and Columbia University surveyed Austin residents about how the change affected their travel behavior.
Asked about the last trip riders took with Uber and Lyft, 3 percent said they took similar trips afterward by public transit instead (Austin has much lower transit usage in general than New York).
That also implies some substitution.
Further complicating this picture, 9 percent said they bought a personal car as a result of the change.
The bulk of the evidence so far shows that these services dont inherently make transportation more efficient at the level of an entire city, even if they have the potential to.
They may make your travel more efficient, because you dont have to hunt for a parking spot or wait for the bus.
But when you aggregate the behavior of many people, transportation becomes less efficient when transit riders switch to cars, when new car services entice people onto trips they wouldnt otherwise have taken, or when people who give up their cars wind up traveling even more in someone elses.
Its equally not preordained that these apps will make traffic worse, or that they must come at the expense of public transit.
If more people left their solo cars for car-pooled ride-hailing, rather than leaving public buses for solo Uber rides, that would reduce the number of cars on the road and the miles they travel.
If transit agencies partnered with these companies, as some have begun to try doing, ride-hailing could fill niches that trains and buses dont handle well, like late-night journeys, transit for riders with disabilities, and suburban service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres this potential opportunity for policy makers, city planners and these firms themselves to find solutions where were steering toward that future, Ms. Clewlow said.
Its unlikely well get there by chance, though.
Technology is making variable or dynamic pricing the same strategies that ensure a seat on an airplane, a hotel room or an Uber car are almost always available if youre willing to pay the price more plausible in areas with huge social consequences.
Dynamic pricing of electricity could help bring down pollution, reduce energy costs and make renewable energy more viable.
Constantly adjusting prices for access to highways and congested downtowns could make traffic jams, with all the resulting wasted time and excess emissions, a thing of the past.
Any sector where supplies tend to be fixed but demand fluctuates the water supply, health care would seem like prime candidates for variable pricing.
But technologists, entrepreneurs and regulators who would go down this path first need to learn a few lessons from Mr. Thaler and Mr. Springsteen.
A good rule of thumb is we shouldnt impose a set of rules that will create moral outrage, even if that moral outrage seems stupid to economists, Mr. Thaler said.
As it turns out, when you look at when and how dynamic pricing provokes outrage, you detect some patterns and a guidebook on getting some of the benefits of economic efficiency without fueling outrage that dooms the entire project.
Musicians taking the long view The underpricing of popular concert tickets is nothing new.
In an earlier era, this was visible in long lines of fans camping out to buy them.
Now, the gap between fans willingness to pay and the official price drives online ticket marketplaces, and a constant cat-and-mouse game pitting concert promoters against ticket brokers.
And Mr. Springsteens show is grappling with the same challenge that Hamilton, and other hot tickets on Broadway have faced: limited seating, seemingly limitless demand.
Research by the economists Marie Connolly of the University of Quebec and Alan Krueger of Princeton based on a sample of major concerts in 2006 estimated that artists and promoters left about 5 percent of potential income (or around $200 million) on the table by underpricing tickets relative to the market rate.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some in the music business see this as the height of irrationality.
Most concert tickets are not priced to market, said Marc Geiger, a leading agent to musicians with WME Entertainment.
He described showing an artist that the front-row concert tickets, priced flat at $125, were selling for $900 to $1,300 on the secondary market.
I say, please, let me take some of those and price them at market, Mr. Geiger said at the Music Industry Research Association conference in August in Los Angeles.
Confoundingly, he said, the same artist might chafe at discounting the back rows of an arena to ensure a sellout, for fear of appearing to give away tickets too cheaply.
We are still coming out of the era of rock n roll socialism, he said.
I think the concert industry is still in a bit of head-in-the-sand economics.
But given that the apparent underpricing has been so widespread and so persistent, is it possible the strategy is more rational than it seems?
Thats what Ms. Connolly and Mr. Krueger argue.
For artists, no one show exists in a vacuum.
And the things that might maximize revenue for any given night might not be the elements that matter in the longer term in developing devoted fans.
Theres the issue of fairness, of course.
Fans dont want to think their favorite artist is gouging.
And the entire concert experience may be better if raucous superfans are in the front rows, rather than whoever is able to pay four figures for a ticket.
The goal is to create an experience that makes everyone leave with a warm glow, their fandom of that artist that much deeper.
If artists did raise prices sharply, theres a risk they would need to discount prices later to fill up the arena.
Research shows that when people find out they overpaid for something, they buy less in the future.
So one view of the Springsteen approach is that it is economically irrational.
But another is that it is part of a long-term relationship between a performer and his fans.
That might be a lesson for the other industries where variable pricing could make a lot of sense.
Fairness helps people keep cool Those scorching days of midsummer, when every air-conditioner in a hundred-mile radius is cranking at full blast, are hard on utilities.
Photo Most of the time, they can meet electricity demand with modern, efficient natural gas power plants that keep power flowing consistently at reasonable cost and with moderate carbon emissions, combined with nuclear and renewable energy plants that are pretty much always operating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But on brutally hot days (and perhaps a few bitter cold days in the winter, too), things get trickier.
To keep up with demand, utilities have to turn to old, expensive, dirty coal and oil plants.
Some power plants maintain a crew year-round in order to be able to generate electricity only a few days during peak demand.
As a result, the cost of energy production can be four or five times as high on a high-demand day as on a low-demand day.
Yet the way most Americans buy electricity, that is all invisible.
Utilities typically charge a single price per kilowatt-hour of electricity no matter when it was used.
If the price of electricity varied from hour to hour as airline tickets do, it might create incentives on high-demand days for consumers to set their air-conditioners a few degrees higher or to postpone running their washer and dryer till the overnight hours.
The old, inefficient plants could be mothballed, and air pollution would decrease.
It sounds easy, an elegant use of markets to increase efficiency.
And in some limited-scale experiments, its already happening.
In Illinois Elevate Energy says that it has saved 28,000 customers 15 percent on their electricity with a system of variable electricity pricing through two utilities.
In normal times, energy might cost 3 or 4 cents, while on peak days it can surge to 14 cents.
But the people working on such programs are also aware of some of the problems that could emerge if they arent careful.
And they come back to some of the same notions of fairness that underpin the concert pricing conundrum.
Affluent people could easily decide its just not worth the effort to adapt their energy consumption to the spot price, making the programs a penalty for the poor.
And some people might have trouble following constantly changing prices or knowing how to trim their usage in response.
Woe betide the utility executive facing customers who are angry upon suddenly receiving a $2,000 electricity bill after a heat wave.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It could get worse.
If a poor older person turned off air-conditioning during a heat wave to avoid the price spike and died of heat stroke, it would be a human tragedy.
People on supplemental oxygen cant turn the machines off to save money.
Im a big believer that you dont just give people a raw price signal, but provide them with support and financing to invest in the infrastructure to respond appropriately, said Daniel Esty, a Yale environmental law professor and former commissioner of Connecticuts energy and environmental protection agency.
Even better over time would be a system where people dont have to think about it, where smart appliances are connected to a smart grid that would enable them to do their part in a kind of invisible-hand sort of way.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Illinois program has included email and text alerts to tell people when surge pricing is in effect, and some customers are using technology involving smart thermostats so that their temperature setting adjusts automatically.
This doesnt have to be something people need to monitor every day to be successful, said Sarah Gulezian, senior manager of dynamic pricing programs at Elevate Energy.
Moreover, it might prove possible to create pricing structures that guarantee consumers wont pay more than they would have under traditional pricing, essentially seizing the benefits of dynamic pricing without anyone getting an unpleasant risk of sticker shock.
Thats because most households see savings under the plans, and only a handful see their prices rise.
Utilities and regulators, in other words, have to think a little like Mr. Springsteen: Its not just about maximizing the efficiency of the energy market on any one day, just as the Boss isnt trying to maximize his revenue from any one concert.
Rather, its about maintaining a relationship in which people do not feel like they have been exploited.
Some short-term inefficiency can buy long-term viability.
And thats never truer than when disaster strikes, whether a heat wave, a blizzard or a hurricane barreling toward the most populous area of Florida.
Home Depot and a hurricane As Hurricane Irma did just that in early September, about 150 Home Depot officials gathered in the companys Atlanta headquarters in an auditorium and a series of conference rooms that became the companys temporary command center.
Logistics experts, store operations officials, corporate security staffers, human resources employees, lawyers and representatives of major suppliers were all there, in what is now a well-rehearsed exercise.
Photo The first thing they did was direct all prices to be frozen in areas likely to be affected by the storm.
There is no surge pricing at Home Depot stores after a disaster, in both a longstanding corporate policy and a matter of law in many states.
But the company doesnt stop with that.
All those logistics people and other staffers are there to ensure that the surge in demand after a disaster is matched with a higher supply of the goods people need.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As hurricane season approaches, dedicated warehouses are stocked with goods that will be needed if a major storm hits, according to the companys director of corporate communications, Stephen Holmes.
And thats why, as soon as Irma passed the Miami area and the major highways were confirmed to be passable, a convoy of 41 tractor-trailers full of generators, plywood, chain saws and similar items trekked from Georgia to South Florida, escorted by the police.
The key is responding to a desperate situation not by raising prices, but also not by being content with shortages of badly needed goods.
Rather, emergencies are an occasion to increase supply, even if it means incurring big logistical costs to do so.
That could have a lot of implications, including for your morning commute.
Traffic-choked monster The Capital Beltway that encircles Washington and its near suburbs is more than just a metaphor for the alleged insularity of the people who live within it.
It is often a traffic-choked monster that ruins the commutes of many who must use it.
Photo But for a 14-mile stretch, there is an out if you have the money.
A parallel toll road allows those willing to pay 20 cents a mile during slow periods, $1 a mile during a typical rush hour, more during times of extreme traffic to ensure it is never clogged.
The toll road, a joint venture between Virginias transportation department and the Australian company Transurban, is an example of dynamic pricing as a tool to reduce traffic.
Different in approach but with the same ultimate goal is congestion pricing, a fee on cars and trucks to enter a dense urban area.
Congestion pricing has gone into effect in Stockholm and London but was rejected for New York in 2008 (Gov.
Andrew Cuomo of New York has indicated new openness to the idea this year).
In these areas, there is too much demand for space on the roads and too little supply of road, and each of these strategies tries to use pricing to bring supply and demand into balance.
But paying variable prices for a good that has previously been free (most roads) or charged at some fixed rate (traditional toll roads) raises all sorts of issues.
This new approach to modulating traffic may become more acceptable to voters when it is part of an increase in supply.
If variable tolls or congestion charges are merely about pricing some people out of the market and letting rich people avoid the nuisance of traffic, they probably wont go over so well.
But if they are part of creating more supply of road, ensuring more people over all can get where they want to go and if people are frequently reminded of that the measures may go down easier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Transurban deal with Virginia essentially makes private money available for additional road capacity the express lanes on the Capital Beltway were built from scratch.
Its existence also serves to reduce the traffic on the traditional lanes.
Governor Cuomo has pitched a New York congestion fee as a funding stream to improve and expand New Yorks rail system.
If that happens, it could mean more capacity to get people in and out of the city.
Another lesson from these pricing experiments is that they tend to be most resisted when they are new.
When Stockholm experimented with a charge to enter the city center in 2006, it was highly controversial, with people in suburban towns especially viewing it as an unfair tax.
But since being made permanent in 2007, opinion has shifted, said Maria Borjesson, a transportation economist at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology.
I think an important lesson is that the conception of what is fair changes, she said.
Before the charge, the discussion was of how unfair it was and how it would be hardest for low-income people.
Now when we do surveys, we find that people think it is unfair if the people who use the streets and pollute and increase congestion dont pay.
Weve seen this everywhere that has implemented congestion charges, that public support increases afterward.
A lesson for Uber, and all of us Peoples perceptions of what is fair and just are not set in stone; they evolve over time.
But companies looking to use variable pricing have to be cognizant of how important it is to respect those perceptions.
Uber has often been cast as the embodiment of excessive use of surge pricing.
For example, in 2013, Jessica Seinfeld, the cookbook author and wife of the comedian Jerry Seinfeld, was outraged to face a $415 charge for a short ride in a snowstorm, and told her Instagram followers all about it.
Since then, Uber has taken a range of actions to try to keep the benefits of variable pricing while reducing the outrage.
It has adopted a quicker trigger finger for eliminating surge pricing entirely in emergency situations, for one thing.
When Mexico City had a major earthquake on Sept. 19, an operations worker at the companys local headquarters turned off surge pricing, even while the building was still shaking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The fact that one of our teammates had the presence of mind to turn off surge in that chaotic moment, I think, reflects the deep responsibility we all feel toward our fellow citizens and the cities we serve, said Rodrigo Arvalo, general manager for Uber in Latin America.
The company also cut back on passenger complaints by giving a clear estimate of the price of a ride before a person books a car, a practice that began last year.
It turns out its easier to decide whether its worth $30 for a car ride and act accordingly than it is to be told that a surge multiplier of 2.5 times is in place and that the normal rate would probably come to about $12.
Restaurants have long known that charging a fee for a reservation offends peoples sensibilities but that on a big night like New Years Eve you can require everyone to eat an expensive fixed-price menu with lobster and filet.
Diners will happily pay a surge price without thinking of it as such.
What the successful examples of variable pricing have in common is that they treat customers desire for fairness not as some irrational rejection of economic logic to be scoffed at, but something fundamental, hard-wired into their view of the world.
It is a reality that has to be respected and understood, whether youre setting the price for a highway toll, a kilowatt of power on a hot day, or a generator after a hurricane.
If you treat people in a way they think is unfair, then it will come back and bite you, Mr. Thaler said.
And it doesnt take a Nobel to understand that.
But not all.
While many large carriers like Centene may be willing to stay, others are nervous, and their regulators were considering options Friday.
New competition from plans exempt from the A.C.A.
rules and much higher rates resulting from the loss of funding are making some insurers rethink their commitment to 2018.
Theyre sharpening their pencils now to see if they are going to stay in or not, said David M. Dillon, a fellow with the Society of Actuaries.
In addition to cutting off the subsidies, the president signed an executive order Thursday that may pave the way for competing plans that would be subject to fewer rules and could draw healthy customers out of the Obamacare markets.
The administration has also cut back on its marketplace advertising budget by 90 percent, and slashed funding to groups that help customers understand their options and sign up for insurance.
Its a deliberate pattern, said Chet Burrell, the chief executive of CareFirst, which is faced with a $50 million loss in Maryland if regulators do not allow it to increase its rates to make up for the loss of funding.
With active sabotage, this makes it more unstable.
Mr. Burrell says CareFirst expects to continue offering coverage in the individual market regardless of what the Maryland regulator decides.
But he said the administrations actions create profound instability and uncertainty for the future.
Even as Mr. Trump created instability, his Department of Health and Human Services said Friday that it would take steps to help insurers stay in the market, despite the change.
Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman, said the department would allow some plans to submit higher rates if their original prices had not taken account of the risk the subsidies would go away.
The department is working on a case-by-case basis with those states where regulators explicitly required insurers to assume cost-sharing reduction payments would be made, she said.
With or without the government payments to insurers, consumers who rely on subsidies for their premiums or their deductibles will be insulated from the changes, as long as carriers dont flee.
Insurers are still required to offer discounts to eligible customers, even if they dont get reimbursed by the federal government.
People who get their insurance through Medicaid will be unaffected.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But while the higher prices will keep most, if not all, insurers from exiting the markets, they will hurt customers who pay full price for their insurance.
Around eight million Americans buy their own health plans and earn too much for government help.
They will be footing the bill for double-digit increases linked to the increased policy uncertainty.
Some may not be able to afford to keep their coverage.
The cumulative effect is very damaging, said Ceci Connolly, the chief executive of the Alliance of Community Health Plans.
How many cuts can this market and this law take before its just in smithereens?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And even Mr. Neidorff says there is little doubt about Mr. Trumps intent.
The world knows what his message has been from the beginning, he said.
They want to unwind the Affordable Care Act.
Insurers that raised their rates and whose customers are generally eligible for subsidies are the least affected by the loss of funding, and they are likely to stay.
Health Care Service Corp. which offers Blue Cross plans in several states, said its participation would be unaffected, and other large Blue Cross plans like Florida Blue said they had priced in the uncertainty.
Molina Healthcare, another large player in the market, said it plans to participate in the seven states where it had filed in 2018, although the company said it will continue to evaluate our participation on a market-by-market basis.
Anthem, which offers for-profit Blue Cross plans and had sharply reduced its participation in the marketplaces next year, in large part because of the turmoil in the market, declined to comment.
Alex Feldvebel, the deputy insurance commissioner in New Hampshire, said his department permitted insurers there to assume that government subsidies would go unpaid in 2018 when submitting their rates this summer.
The carriers havent made their final decisions about whether to stay or go, but Mr. Feldvebel said he was reassured by preliminary conversations Friday.
Were feeling pretty O.K.
here that this will not throw everything into a cocked hat, he said.
In Washington State, where the insurance department had not allowed carriers to price for the risk but had asked them to file two sets of rates, the state insurance commissioner reversed course, telling insurers Friday they could switch to the higher rates to make up for the lost government funds.
The New Jersey insurance regulator also said insurers could refile higher rate requests, as did Oregons regulator.
The regulators, anxious to avoid any last-minute departures, are working closely with the insurers to make sure they stay.
I am going to be doing my darnedest to reassure them, said Mike Kreidler, the insurance regulator for Washington State.
But he emphasizes that the administrations actions have caused the companies to think hard about whether to stay.
It just continues that drumroll of uncertainty.
He said he was worried about a mass exodus of insurers.
If one bolts, you could see them all bolt, Mr. Kreidler said.
A.
Yesterday was a long day and Im starting to lose my voice.
Youre the last person Im going to talk to, and then Im going to the Cubs game.
Since you cant finish the column, tell me something interesting.
Maybe we can use it instead.
For instance, how did you get going on the whole behavioral economics thing?
My career started with cashews.
I took a bowl and hid them in the kitchen.
What's the deep meaning of cashews?
You know Im a victim of all the things I talk about.
Cashews?
They are a self-control problem.
I had roommates.
We were all eating cashews too quickly.
Really, there were two problems eating too much, thats self-control, plus shortsightedness.
How does shortsightedness come in?
Dinners coming in 20 minutes.
You know that, but you cant stop eating.
But I found an answer.
If the cashews arent in front of you, youre less tempted to eat them.
In fact, if you have to get up and walk all the way to the kitchen in this gigantic house I was living in as a graduate student in Rochester you dont end up eating so much.
Some insight, huh?
Ive been studying stuff like that for years.
The first time I ever called you was when I read about the fly in the urinal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thats what hooked you?
Yes.
So, remind me.
Was putting that fly in the urinal part of a scientific experiment?
No, there was no experiment.
It was something they did in the Amsterdam airport.
They just put the fly in the urinal and came up with unvalidated data.
And you went for it.
A lot of people did.
I shouldnt have paid attention to it?
Im not saying that.
It was interesting.
In Amsterdam, they found that when men see a fly in a urinal, theres a behavioral change.
There was a reduction in, let us say, spillage.
I did make the fly in the urinal famous.
Cass Sunstein and I wrote about the fly in our book, Nudge.
The fly may be the most famous nudge in the world.
Nudges: They work because we humans arent entirely rational beings, right?
Right.
On Monday, when I heard I won the Nobel, I put on an old sweatshirt with the words Quasi Rational on it.
What are our most important quirks?
Ive made a list of the dumb stuff people do.
Not all of these things were committed by me.
A lot were.
One big one is sunk costs.
What does that mean?
Sunk costs?
We pay too much attention to them.
Like this: A friend of mine and I, back in Rochester, were given two tickets to a basketball game that was going to take place in Buffalo.
But there was a big snowstorm.
My friend said to me theres no way were going to that game now, in the snowstorm, and we didnt go.
But, he said, you know, if wed paid for those tickets ourselves, wed be going.
It felt different because we didnt pay: We had no sunk costs.
If wed paid, it wouldve been different.
Thats crazy, for classical economics, but its true.
So sunk costs got on my list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What else is on there?
I had a friend who got terrible hay fever when he mowed his lawn.
I said why dont you hire some kid to do it for you?
This was years ago.
He said it would cost $10 and he wouldnt pay it.
So I asked, would you mow your neighbors lawn for $20?
He said, come on!
Not even for $50!
But to traditional economics, that makes no sense.
And my friend was an economist!
You know, the supply price and the demand price should be roughly the same.
Youre not supposed to have two different prices.
According to economists.
But even my friend, an economist, didnt think the way economists are supposed to think.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
So I made this list of the funny things I saw people doing.
Theres more of them in my book, Misbehaving, things that didnt make sense with traditional theory.
Thats how it all started.
The theory had to be changed.
What was your biggest discovery?
Greatest by far was discovering the work of Danny Kahneman and Amos Tversky.
Two great psychologists.
Daniel Kahneman won a Nobel in economics in 2002.
Amos Tversky had died by then.
And Danny Kahneman has said that you taught him and Amos Tversky economics.
Is that right?
Well, in a way, yes: I taught them economics and they taught me psychology.
At Stanford.
And now, we have behavioral economics.
In a way, yes.
Its become very popular.
You appeared in the movie, The Big Short, as yourself, the father of behavioral economics.
And the approaches you advocate nudges, redesigning the choice architecture of things from cafeteria food displays to the design of 401(k) plans are having a big effect in the world.
Where is this heading?
I dont really know but the World Bank did a count.
In 75 countries around the world, people are already using these ideas.
Its exploding.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What are you working on now?
On your column.
Of course.
It will be on health care.
It will be brilliant.
Excellent.
Thank you.
Aside from that?
Im looking again at nudges in pension plans.
Oddly, into Swedish pensions: You know, Ill be going to Sweden for the award.
Unlike Bob Dylan.
Which means Ive got to write a speech.
It will take a lot of time.
That could delay the column.
You can handle it!
Thank you.
The Nobel money: Have you started spending it Ive made a kind of joke about that.
I said Ill spend it as irrationally as possible.
The Nobel Prize is going to be fun money" for an occasion, when my wife and I want a $50 bottle of wine.
Fun money is another thing that makes no sense to traditional economists.
Because theres just money; theres no fun money.
Its all supposed to be the same.
Which brings me to mental accounting.
Thats probably what Im best known for.
How would you explain it?
The best explanation, actually, is in a YouTube video with Gene Hackman and Dustin Hoffman.
You should use it.
Ill see if we can.
(We cant.
It contains a word we dont publish unless a politician says it.)
Help.
What is mental accounting?
Well, Hackman says when they were both young actors he was over at Dustin Hoffmans house and Hoffman asks him for a loan.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hackman goes into the kitchen and sees all these Mason jars with labels entertainment and books and rent and they all have money in them.
Except for one, the one that says food.
So he says to Hoffman: You have plenty of money, why do you need money?
And Hoffman says, Theres no money in the food jar.
I cant touch the other money.
They laugh, they go on, its funny but you know, its serious.
Because we all do that.
Is mental accounting putting money into different Mason jars in your head a dumb thing to do?
At some level, you can think of it as dumb, as violating the economists basic assumption that money is fungible.
Thats a good New York Times word.
Yes.
Money is money.
Its all the same.
So putting it into mental boxes isnt entirely dumb?
Its smart.
It helps.
It helps to put money into a retirement basket, for example.
401(k) money is much stickier than money elsewhere: It tends to stay there.
It helps people save for retirement.
What it comes down to is, in everyday life, we dont want to deal with a lot of math problems.
People just impose rules of thumb, like, this one: I dont pay more than $30 for a bottle of wine, unless its a special occasion.
Then, I use fun money.
And now, Ive got a mental account for it: the Nobel money.
That is kind of silly.
Sure it is, Jeff.
But those silly things are my lifes work.
A few months ago, we called those increased prices an uncertainty tax.
The uncertainty is gone now.
But the conservative planning of the insurance industry means that many insurers can afford to keep offering insurance, even after the president cuts off the funding.
Plans that priced for the threat will take a small haircut this year, but they can still make money, even without the payments, next year.
Photo The Congressional Budget Office offered an estimate about what would happen if the president stopped making the payments, and its instructive.
It estimated that, in the short term, the decision would cause instability: One million additional people would become uninsured in 2018, prices for insurance would rise by 20 to 25 percent, and insurers would drop out of some parts of the country.
But, in the long run, the budget office thought that health plans and state insurance regulators would hack their way around the problem, resulting in an uninsured rate that would be even lower than it is under current law.
The catch: It would end up costing the government more money in subsidies that help lower-income people pay their premiums, about $6 billion this year and $26 billion by the end of a decade.
Some of that hacking has begun.
In California, insurers have been instructed to impose a surcharge on just one type of plan to cover their lost subsidy payments.
That arrangement means that some customers will pay a higher price, but no insurance company will lose its shirt.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In other states, things are more unsettled, because insurers and regulators didnt price ahead.
In those places, the consequences of the presidents decision will be felt unevenly, with some state markets proceeding as planned, and others making last-minute exits or other adjustments.
Insurers have already signed final contracts with the government for next year, though they have an out if the subsidies go unpaid.
Congress can also act.
The president is able to eliminate the subsidies because of the ambiguity in the language of the health law.
If lawmakers vote that the subsidies should be paid, either for the coming year or indefinitely, the president will need to begin paying them again.
Bipartisan negotiations in the Senate committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions this summer had focused on just such legislation, though they got derailed in a recent effort to pass a Republican bill to replace parts of Obamacare with block grants.
The bipartisan talks could resume, though passage of cost-sharing payments would require Republican support, and many G.O.P.
lawmakers view them, as the president does, as a bailout of insurance companies.
An unusually broad alliance of interests has urged Congress to appropriate the money, signaling just how disruptive their loss could be.
A letter drafted in September was signed not just by health insurers, doctors, and hospitals, but also by the Chamber of Commerce.
Eliminating cost-sharing subsidies is not the only thing the president did Thursday, however.
He also signed an executive order devised to help more customers exit Obamacares markets in search of less regulated insurance options.
And Thursdays actions follow a string of smaller policy choices that are likely to reduce Obamacare sign-ups.
(My colleague Haeyoun Park has been keeping a helpful list of them here.)
Taken together, the actions send a strong signal to insurance companies about the administrations approach to the future of the Obamacare marketplaces.
That message may prove as powerful as any strict loss calculation.
Did any laws change?
Not yet.
The executive order has no force of law itself.
It instead asked three federal agencies to consider possible new regulations that could help achieve certain goals.
It is not clear what those rules will say.
Generally, issuing new regulations takes several months, including a period of public comment.
None of the proposed changes to regulation are specifically tied to Obamacare.
But they would alter the rules for parts of the insurance system that the Affordable Care Act didnt touch, as a way of offering more Americans access to those types of insurance.
The subsidies Trump eliminated were created as part of the Affordable Care Act, but not clearly appropriated by Congress.
That leaves them in a weird legal spot.
Insurers are still required to offer discounts to customers who qualify.
And they may sue the administration to recoup the funds.
But they will lose money in the short term, and in the long term, unless they charge enough in premiums to make up for the losses.
That could hurt higher-income customers who pay full price.
What will this mean for people who get insurance from work?
If you are insured by a large company that offers insurance, there should be few effects.
But the order might make it easier for your employer to give you pretax money if you want to buy your own insurance.
If you work for a small business, the executive order could cause major changes to your plan.
The order asks the Labor Department to loosen rules that permit small companies to band together to form associations and buy the kind of coverage available to larger businesses.
These association health plans would be governed by federal employment law, not state insurance regulations.
That means that the plans would have far fewer rules about generosity or benefits.
State insurance regulators might also have more trouble making sure that the insurers have enough money to pay their members medical bills.
Such association health plans, before 1983, when rules were looser, were rife with fraud.
Businesses unable or unwilling to join such associations might face higher premiums in the Obamacare market.
The kinds of companies that are likely to fare better in an association plan are probably those with relatively healthy employees.
That means that businesses that remain in the normal small-business market may end up having sicker and more expensive workers, on average, increasing premiums.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What will this mean for people who buy their own insurance?
The biggest risk to consumers is that insurance companies, faced with the news about the subsidies going away, will drop out of the market for next year.
Their contracts allow them an out if subsidy policy changes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The effects of the executive order are less clear, though there are likely to be some.
It appears that a coming rule will expand a kind of short-term insurance plan intended for people who are in between jobs, making those plans available to more consumers who wish to find an insurance option that is cheaper and less comprehensive than those available in the Obamacare marketplaces.
Such plans are currently exempt from most insurance rules.
That means the plans can reject or charge higher prices to customers with pre-existing health conditions, can cover fewer benefits and can charge higher deductibles.
Because they tend to be skimpier and insure only healthy customers, the plans prices tend to be lower.
Under current regulation, such plans can last for only three months at a time.
The order asks for a change to lengthen their duration, a directive likely to result in plans that last just under a year, the standard before this year.
That change would make it easier to use such insurance as a substitute for Obamacare-compliant coverage.
It is possible that the association rule will allow self-employed people to join associations, but legal experts are skeptical that the labor laws will permit it.
If a lot of people decide to buy these short-term or association insurance plans, that will most likely leave fewer Americans in the Obamacare markets.
And that smaller group is likely to have more people who care about comprehensive coverage and lower deductibles that is, people with more health problems.
The result could be higher prices for customers who remain.
The loss of the cost-sharing subsidies will also prompt insurers to raise their prices.
Most Obamacare customers get federal subsidies that help them buy insurance, and they would not feel the increases.
But higher-income customers who choose to buy Obamacare insurance may need to pay more.
What will it mean for people with Medicaid or Medicare?
None of these changes directly affect them.
Will these changes lower the cost of insurance?
Its complicated.
If the rules are changed, some Americans will be able to buy insurance for a lower sticker price through the short-term market or an association.
But that insurance is likely to cover fewer benefits, may not be available to people with a history of health problems, and may be more likely to be offered by a fraudulent company.
People who get insurance using government subsidies wont notice much of a change in price, but they might see fewer options in the future, if the changes make the Obamacare market less attractive to insurers.
But people who pay full price now, who are denied short-term plans and who dont work for companies that become part of associations will probably face higher prices for the Obamacare-compliant insurance they buy now.
Are there good examples of how this might work?
The Tennessee insurance market gives us some sense of what happens when some plans have to follow Obamacare rules and others dont.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Tennessee Farm Bureau offers inexpensive insurance products that dont adhere to Obamacare rules.
The plans vary in price based on a customers health history, and dont cover all the benefits of an Obamacare plan.
The Obamacare insurance market, as a result, is shakier than in many other states, since there are fewer people buying insurance there, and they tend to be less healthy.
Earlier this year, it appeared that the Knoxville area might not have any insurance options next year though the local Blue Cross plan did eventually fill the hole.
In Tennessee, people who buy Farm Bureau plans still have to pay Obamacares individual mandate a tax penalty.
It is unclear whether the Trump administration will try to make more exceptions to the penalty rules, which could cause even more people to leave the Obamacare market.
When will we know more details?
Probably soon.
The agencies charged with writing new rules have been working on them.
Initial proposals may emerge within weeks, though any changes are unlikely to be completed before the end of the year.
Insurers will need to make decisions in the next few weeks about whether the subsidy cuts will cause them to leave markets.
Photo For most of you, it may be too early to start thinking about whether your team will make the N.F.L.
playoffs, and thats just fine.
Its only Week 6, after all, and you may be thinking about the fact that, excluding the possibility of ties, there are 766 sexdecillion different ways the season could end, a number much larger than an educated guess for the number of stars in the universe.
But for some of you, its never too early.
We understand that feeling.
Thats why were bringing back our interactive N.F.L.
playoff simulator.
The fourth edition of the simulator is built for one purpose: to help you explore the paths to the playoffs for every team in the N.F.L.
revealing which games are most important to your teams chances.
It works like this: We let you choose the outcomes of any game, and simulate every other game remaining in the 2017 season.
You can then calculate the chances your team has of making the playoffs, winning the division or earning a first-round bye.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In making these calculations, we do not consider all games to be a coin toss.
Instead, we use Sagarin ratings, which reflect the fact that, even though anything can happen on a given Sunday, not all teams are created equal.
Republicans are facing a growing unity problem that's impeding their policy goals, even though they're in the majority.
(Jenny Starrs/TWP) Republicans are facing a growing unity problem that's impeding their policy goals, even though they're in the majority.
(Jenny Starrs/TWP) Allies of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell declared open warfare on Wednesday against Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and leader of an insurrection aimed at defeating mainstream Republican candidates in next years midterm elections.
More than a year ahead of the 2018 congressional contests, a super PAC aligned with McConnell (R-Ky.) revealed plans to attack Bannon personally as it works to protect GOP incumbents facing uphill primary fights.
The effort reflects the growing concern of Republican lawmakers over the rise of anti-establishment forces and comes amid escalating frustration over President Trumps conduct, which has prompted a handful of lawmakers to publicly criticize the president.
Yet the retaliatory crusade does not aim to target Trump, whose popularity remains high among Republican voters.
Instead, the McConnell-allied Senate Leadership Fund (SLF) will highlight Bannons hard-line populism and attempt to link him to white nationalism to discredit him and the candidates he will support.
It will also boost candidates with traditional GOP profiles and excoriate those tied to Bannon, with plans to spend millions and launch a heavy social media presence in some states.
The turbulence presents a danger to Republicans narrow 52-seat majority in the Senate, with seasoned GOP lawmakers deciding against seeking reelection amid the political storm and with many GOP voters cheering the rancor that Bannon has stoked from his perch at his website, Breitbart.
[Daily 202: Flake and Corker feel liberated.
That should terrify Trump.]
Former White House adviser Stephen K. Bannon argued against "nation building" in Afghanistan on Oct. 23.
"We have to build a nation called the United States of America," he said.
(Hudson Institute) Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), in an emotional plea Tuesday, said that he would not run in 2018, after Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) had done the same in late September.
Both men, no longer accountable to Republican primary voters, have taken on higher-profile roles as critics of the president, with Corker calling for a day care to step in and control him and Flake calling Trumps behavior unacceptable.
Some Republican lawmakers have privately fretted that simply speaking out against Trumps incendiary statements or the Bannon-aligned candidates that are rousing anger in their states will not be enough and could backfire as they try to survive the surge of grievance-driven politics that has gripped the GOPs base.
Its tough, Flake told CNN on Wednesday.
Im competitive.
I like to fight these battles.
But I also knew that I couldnt run the kind of race that I would be proud of and win in a Republican primary at this time.
The politics in that way have changed.
In the wake of Flakes announcement, the SLF called Arizona state Sen. Kelli Ward, Bannons pick to replace Flake, a conspiracy theorist and promised to ensure her defeat.
In recent weeks, Bannon has held court as dozens of candidates have streamed through his Capitol Hill townhouse, including Ward last week, urging them to pledge to vote against McConnell for majority leader.
Mississippi state Sen. Chris McDaniel (R) is close to making a decision on a bid against Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.)
and has won Bannons blessing, according to a person close to him.
Hedge fund executive Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah Bannons wealthy allies have pledged millions to the cause, said people briefed on their plans.
Bannons critics argue that he is causing unnecessary internal divisions that could make it harder to pass tax legislation and to win general elections next fall.
They also point to Sen. Luther Stranges defeat in last months Republican primary in a special Senate election in Alabama as an example of a dynamic they worry could repeat itself across the next year if left unchecked.
The SLF spent more than $10 million to help Strange.
Strange was endorsed by Trump and McConnell but lost to a former state judge, Roy Moore, who had won the backing of Bannon and his orbit of allies.
Moore is now in a tight race with Democratic nominee Doug Jones.
This is a guy who is more interested in seeing his name in the headlines than he is in any kind of accomplishment for the president, said Josh Holmes, a former chief of staff to McConnell who has been increasingly outspoken in his opposition to Bannon.
It comes at great cost to the presidents term, the Republican Party and any hope they can have at working as a team.
On Wednesday, the SLFs Twitter account mocked Danny Tarkanian a frequent conservative candidate in Nevada who is challenging Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) for suggesting that Heller join him in pledging to oppose McConnell as majority leader.
The tweets also turned the spotlight on Bannon.
The SLF tweeted a 2016 headline from the New York Daily News Anti-Semitic Trump campaign CEO Stephen Bannon not a big fan of whiny brat Jews, ex-wife says with space for Tarkanians signature.
Heres another pledge for @DannyTarkanian to sign, the PAC tweeted.
The Daily News reported last year that in a 2007 court statement, Bannons former wife Mary Louise Piccard said he didnt want their twin daughters attending a school because too many Jews attended.
The biggest problem he had with Archer [School for Girls in Los Angeles] is the number of Jews that attend, Piccard said in her statement, the newspaper reported.
Bannons spokeswoman Alexandra Preate told The Washington Post last year that Bannon has denied saying that and proudly sent the girls to Archer.
And after seeing the SLF tweet to Tarkanian on Wednesday, a Bannon confidant said, he responded to the groups social media blitz with laughter as he has to other recent attacks on his character.
That attack was one of a number of swipes at Bannon that have popped up as the former White House adviser has emerged as a player on the national political scene.
Holmes and others have called him a white supremacist.
Holmes defended his use of the term to describe Bannon in a recent interview.
If you look at his associations, the people who are ecstatic about his efforts, the long history of conduct that he has been a part of, I will let others come to their conclusions, he said.
But this is not a guy that just burst on the scene.
Lets not act like everybody doesnt know exactly who Steve Bannon is.
Bannon has said repeatedly that his nationalist, populist vision includes a place for all races, sexual orientations and genders to succeed.
Do we need any further evidence than Mitch McConnell and his cronies reducing themselves to using left-wing talking points to attack Steve?
Its pathetic to watch, said Andy Surabian, a senior adviser to the Great America Alliance super PAC and Bannons former deputy at the White House.
The pro-Trump PAC is engaged in a slew of races, sending around a bus to rally activists, and counts longtime operative Edward Rollins as its strategist.
Every poll shows Mitch McConnell is an albatross on the Republican candidates, Surabian said.
If McConnell truly cared about our Republican majority in the Senate more than he cares about his own power, then he would step down as Senate majority leader today.
Bannons circle says the contents of his divorce proceedings, along with claims of racism, are unlikely to do new damage to his reputation, since he has been targeted in the past along those same lines by Democrats, and even in a Saturday Night Live caricature as an angel of death.
Advisers also note that the attacks elevate Bannons profile, which could help carry his anti-establishment message.
In an email, SLF President Steven Law said he expects Bannon to become a liability for any insurgent candidates he supports in 2018.
But his real impact would be felt in general elections, where Bannons well-documented, toxic views and alt-right paper trail could become a liability for candidates who are perceived as closely tied to him, Law said.
According to public polling, neither McConnell nor Bannon is in good standing with voters.
In an April poll conducted by Quinnipiac University, one of few to ask voters about Bannon, just 11 percent said they viewed him positively and 45 percent said they viewed him negatively.
The numbers were better among Republicans, with a nine-point favorability margin.
Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.
), one of the incumbents mentioned as a possible target for Bannon in 2018, dismissed the effort to get Senate Republicans to sign pledges vowing to oppose McConnell.
No, I havent signed pledges.
I didnt sign Grover Norquists pledge, Barrasso said on Wednesday, referring to the anti-tax advocates famous pledge.
Im not a guy that signs pledges, and Im going to vote for whoever I believe is in the best interests of the people of Wyoming.
The reasons for Flakes decision may be tied less to the national environment surrounding the feud between McConnell and Bannon and more about raw home-state politics.
Reams of public and private polling in recent months have found Flake to be an unpopular incumbent, especially among the Republican voters he would need to win over in a primary fight next year.
McConnells polling among Republicans has tumbled since the start of the year a fact that Bannon has used to his advantage.
On Tuesday, Bannons Breitbart website reported that a Harvard-Harris poll found 56 percent of Republicans in favor of dumping McConnell as leader.
That same day, at a media roundtable organized by the conservative Heritage Foundation, a reporter for Breitbart asked members of the House Freedom Caucus to respond to the poll number.
It was that high?
scoffed Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), wondering jokingly about why it wasnt even higher.
As the two sides spar, Senate Republicans are trying to demonstrate that the partys agenda is moving forward despite the infighting and that relations with the White House are smooth.
On Wednesday, a day after Flake made his charged speech, Ivanka Trump appeared with Republican senators to pitch a child tax credit that she has lobbied to include in the upcoming tax legislation.
Still, GOP donors who are friendly with McConnell welcomed the effort to thwart Bannons attempts to shape the 2018 contests and rattle McConnell as Senate Republicans are trying to work with Trump.
Absolutely.
Why not?
said Al Hoffman, a major Republican donor and McConnell ally.
Youve got to get rid of the Bannon banner.
Ed OKeefe and Paul Kane in Washington and Sean Sullivan in Alabama contributed to this report.
Read more at PowerPost
Trump on the 401(k) tax break: 'Maybe we'll use it as negotiating'
President Trump gives a thumbs up after meeting people affected by Hurricane Harvey during a visit to the NRG Center on Sept. 2 in Houston.
(Susan Walsh/AP) CBSs Mark Knoller crunched the numbers.
After President Trumps interview with Lou Dobbs on the Fox Business Network on Wednesday, Trump has now participated in interviews with Fox News or affiliated networks 18 times out of 26 television interviews in total.
Combined, Trumps granted five interviews to NBC, MSNBC, ABC and CBS, in total.
Hes given three to the Christian Broadcasting Network and Trinity Broadcasting Network.
And hes given zero to CNN.
Why?
Perhaps the interview with Dobbs can offer some insight.
Here, in order, was what Dobbs said to Trump over one stretch of the interview, according to a Fox News transcript.
Youre also one of the most loved and respected in history.
And how does that feel?
How where is Donald Trump today, as you are just now beginning your presidency?
Without question Right.
Right.
Right.
Yes.
And Yes.
Well I you you are a, if I may say, everything as advertised as you ran for President.
And appreciate everything youre doing.
Thanks so much.
Over the course of the interview, during which Dobbs was quoted by Fox 68 times, Dobbs said right in response to the president 16 times.
A quarter of his responses.
Not the hardest-hitting stuff.
To be fair, there have been interviews in which Fox hosts have held Trumps feet to the fire.
(See Tucker Carlsons interview from March.)
More often, though, Trumps not playing softball so much as teeball see the two interviews hes done with Sean Hannity.
As in: See them below.
Weve taken official Fox transcripts and stripped out Trumps replies.
Skim through to get a sense of the exchanges Trumps had with interviews from the Fox News family.
To make that skimming easier, weve color-coded the replies.
Yellow responses are those we think were critical or challenging to Trump; baby-blue ones are those that agreed with or praised him.
We didnt even color-code the teeball questions.
We trust youll recognize those without a prompt.
These are in chronological order, so it ends with that Dobbs interview this week.
It ends, in other words, with Mr. President, thank you.
KEY: positive/agreeing, critical/challenging Sean Hannity (Fox News), Jan. 26 What a week this has been.
Well thats what I wanted; first I got some time to talk with you earlier in the week in the Oval Office.
And the thing that really stood out to me is you seem to be enjoying yourself and very focused on all the promises you made in the campaign.
Is it your intention to keep every promise?
Lets talk a little bit about the Executive Orders on Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen and 120 ban that goes to the promise of extreme vetting.
Would it be gambling if (inaudible) at some point when there is a procedure in place, if you can ascertain whether or not somebodys been radicalized or not, or if radical groups actually trained some of their soldiers to say the right things to get in.
But if you capture, positively ascertain their safe, and find out whats in their heart, does that mean no go?
Does that mean you wont gamble?
In all areas?
Mm-hmm.
You do not need Congress now as it relates to building a wall.
And you said in an interview last night that you plan to do this expeditiously.
Thats about 700 mile[s] of fencing, other measures as well.
Do you think youll need more than that?
Will you have to go to Congress to get their support for?
Youre talking about a real wall, impenetrable.
Mm-hmm.
Let me talk about a big decision youre going to make next week.
Youve announced on Thursday you will make your Supreme Court choice Announcement.
Two questions on that.
One, will it be from the list that you gave out during the campaign?
Will it be an originalist?
Have you made your decision?
Next question Chuck Schumer, others threatening, weve never had a Supreme Court Justice filibustered.
But theres a chance that might happen.
Would you want Mitch McConnell to use the nuclear option You would?
There are people Leaking in Washington?
Thats a shock.
Right.
Let me ask you, I dont remember you saying this in the campaign, and I was on the road with you quite a bit.
We did a lot of the Town Halls together.
They are now talking about a 10 percent reduction in spending, in other words eliminating baseline budgeting, a 20 percent reduction in the government workforce.
How important is a balanced budget to you and were you surprised Republicans before you got here raised the debt ceiling $9.7 trillion?
I heard you got the price down quite a bit already.
But you do want that 10 percent short of the military?
One of the worst ways it seems to spend money is going through the Washington bureaucracy.
Every congressman has their pet project.
Theres been talk about infrastructure; anywhere the Democrats want a trillion dollars.
I think you talked about $137 billion to start.
Is that something you want to pay as you go?
Is that something youd rather?
Right.
Yeah, by the way I hear a helicopter out there in the background.
You took great pride in meeting with Carrier, saving jobs.
Meeting with Ford, savings jobs.
Youve met with union people $7 billion by the way.
But is, you want to get rid of 75 percent of regulation.
Or more.
Paul Ryan said 20 percent corporate tax rate, you want a 15 percent Right.
The media, a little bit of a contentious start if you will, with them.
They want to, Ive seen now, the New York Times CNN, NBC, theyve used the word liar to describe you.
As it relates if youre talking about crowd size But they also colluded against you in a campaign And my question to you is I said journalisms dead, so we agree.
Martin Luther Kings bust?
Its there.
Mm-hmm.
Okay, sure.
Yeah.
I know.
You know when you do well.
Mm-hmm.
So then, heres my question.
Between Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, I think you reach 50 million people.
So, if we know now through WikiLeaks, some of these networks were colluding with Hillarys campaign to defeat you.
Ive seen major newspapers to cable networks that use the word liar.
And my question to you is, does that make you want to rethink entirely how this administration will deal with the media?
But I dont remember them treating Barack Obama this way.
Obamacare.
The Republicans, theyre meeting in Philly and you are going to see them, but they had an artificial deadline they set the deadline for tomorrow.
They dont think theyre going to make that.
You want at the same time repeal and replace.
I know there are nine separate plans out there.
What is crucial for you to have in that plan to It went up $5,400 when it was supposed to be down $2,500 a year.
Let me move on.
You cant even buy a catastrophic plan.
Could you do it in four years?
Youve mentioned the forgotten man a lot both during the campaign and woman.
And in your inaugural speech.
And you mentioned it last night.
I gave you statistics, the very first interview I did with you, 95 million Americans out of the labor force, nearly 50 million in poverty, 44 million Americans on food stamps.
I say it every night.
One day, you asked, what are all those numbers you give.
But explain, by getting rid of regulation, energy independence, jobs that will be created, a 15 percent from the highest corporate tax rate to the lowest corporate tax rate in the industrialized world and repatriating trillions.
How does that help and impact those people I talk about all the time?
And trade deals.
You got rid of TPP.
You want all bilateral trade agreements But you want bilateral?
One of the problems we have is evil in our time.
Winston Churchill dealt with evil in his time.
Roosevelt dealt with evil in his time.
My father fought in World War II.
Thats true.
This is different.
Waterboarding black sites came up in your interview last night.
And I was thinking, if I had an opportunity to speak with David Muir, Id say, okay, two guys go into your house, they kidnap your child, one guy gets away with your child, you tackle the other guy, that guy knows where your child is, would you dont waterboard that guy?
Thats why it was legal.
Well, we actually know it works.
I interviewed there were only three people that America waterboarded.
One of whom was Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
That led us to the courier who led us to bin Laden.
And I know because I talked to the guy that was running the program at the time.
I want to ask you about None.
None.
Not one.
We both lost friends that day.
I would ask David Muir, if they kidnapped your kid and you have one of the kidnappers, what would you do to get the location of your child?
Its over.
Its over at that point.
I spoke to the guy that ran the program and saw the waterboarding of those three people.
Let me ask you this.
I will go through these very quickly, the countries that youre going to be doing with now.
Israel, one of our closest partners.
Prime Minister Netanyahu is coming.
One of the big issues is the embassy, Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
How important is it to repair this relationship and what about that move of that embassy?
Its repaired already.
Within five minutes?
And youre holding back the money the last-minute money that President Obama gave to the Palestinians.
Where do you stand on the embassy from Tel Aviv to Not yet?
How about I know you spoke to Gen. el-Sisi, did you ever see the speech that he gave on radical Islam?
And do you believe he could Do you trust the Saudis?
Over the years, I would argue theyve been very duplicitous.
Have you talked to Vladimir Putin yet?
So much came up about this.
Have you had discussions with him?
How about the leaders of China?
And I know you spoke to the leaders in India.
What about Pakistan?
Let me ask this.
I think is important.
I actually agree with you wholeheartedly about the Iranian deal.
We paid them ransom.
Let me ask you about the power of the pardon, which is absolute for a president.
One night, I know you were watching my show, and I had the mother of the sailor who is spending a year in jail because he took six pictures for his own use in a submarine and you were comparing it.
Would that be something early on, you would consider?
Christian Saucier.
Did you get the story of Clint Lorance, another guy, got 30 years.
He was doing his job, protecting his team in Afghanistan.
When you saw the Womens March this week and then you hear Madonna say, I thought an awful lot about blowing up the White House, imagine if I said that when Barack Obama was here.
Cause.
Last question, and then were going to you will take us to the Oval Office, which is nice.
You were very passionate last night about Chicago and about the violence.
In the course of Barack Obamas presidency, 4,000 people died, murdered, and another however-many-thousand more shot.
You might go in and help fix it if they cant fix it.
Its a war zone.
All right.
So let me its inauguration night.
You gave your speech.
You go to the balls, you come back, and youre in the White House, in the residence with Melania.
And by the way thats Marine One right there.
And so my question is, whatd you think?
What are you thinking?
Yes.
Im sure.
What a beautiful helicopter.
I have known you for years, and on a personal level, whenever I have ever talked to you, its either 11 p.m., 12 midnight, 1 a.m. or 5 or 6 a.m. Youre a workaholic.
You get bored on vacations?
Youre busy now.
Hard on your family?
(inaudible) met your son.
Your 10-year-old.
What a wonderful, smart, charming kid.
And then they attack him, thats got to hurt you and Melania.
Horrible.
And hes a great kid.
I know him.
I know yes.
I know you talked a little bit about this, the nuclear codes.
How long was that meeting?
How in depth was it?
And thats what you said about Putin, if we can get a long, well get along.
Its going to be harder right.
In many cases its going to be harder when Ive always said theres a clash of culture As it relates to you know countries that practice Sharia.
By the way were in the Oval Office.
Abe Lincoln.
By the way Yes.
Get a shot of these.
It was a pretty rough campaign.
When you first walk in this office everyday and you think of it Ive got one question about the desk, and you have Ivanka and Jared have young kids, are we going to see one of the kids maybe crawling through there?
Yes.
Why did you pick that desk?
You were very impressed with your phones too.
We need to.
I assume youre going to be putting, theres a picture of your father That wasnt there yesterday.
I did notice that.
And I really why did you choose the rug of Reagan?
You could have also designed your own.
Trade, yeah.
In your lifetime, who was the president that maybe you admire the most?
I was surprised my last question for you.
I was surprised last night.
I was watching your interview and you were holding up the letter that Barack Obama had let had left you.
Seemed like a lengthy letter.
And you seemed to have a personal rapport with him and you were right, this was a really, really incredibly vicious campaign.
He doesnt talk to me.
I cant figure out why, yeah.
Helpful to you?
Very, very last question.
Has this whole experience changed you in ways in any way that you can think of?
Youre working.
Mr. President, good to see you.
Thank you for your time, youve been very generous.
Appreciate it.
Bill OReilly (Fox News), Feb. 5 So another big week for the Trump administration.
Judge Gorsuch, that roll out went very smoothly I think.
Alright.
But the refugee deal, not so much.
You wouldnt do anything differently if you had to do it over again?
I mean some of your people didnt really know what the order was?
Alright.
Lets talk about Iran.
Your assessment; do you think were on a collision course, we being the United States, with that country?
The nuclear youre talking about?
Possible you tear it up?
So its possible Sanctions, thats how youre going to start with them?
But youre moving a carrier right?
So youre not real bullish on Iran at this point?
You talked to Putin last week, you had a busy week last week.
Do you respect Putin?
Do you?
Why?
Right.
But hes a killer though.
Putins a killer.
I dont know of any government leaders that are killers.
Mistakes are different than Lets talk about Mexico.
There was a report you talked to President Nieto and you told him, this was the report I want to know if its true or not, that if his army couldnt handle the drug cartels that U.S. Army soldiers would, did you say that?
Got a problem.
At this point do you consider Mexico a corrupt country?
Because this stuff has been going on for decades.
Have you figured out what kind of a tariff youre going to levy on Mexico to pay for the wall?
Yeah you intimidated them theyre afraid of you.
Oh come on, theyre afraid of you.
You know these companies.
They want to do whats right?
Why didnt they do what was right in the past?
Theyre afraid of you.
Alright.
Lets turn [to] domestic policy.
I just spent the week in California.
As you know they are now voting on whether they should become a sanctuary state.
So California and the USA are on a collision course.
How do you see it?
So defunding is your weapon of choice Is there any validity to the criticism of you, that you say things you cant back up factually and as the President if you say for example that there are 3 million illegal aliens who voted and then you dont have the data to back it up.
Some people are going to say, thats irresponsible for a president to say that.
Is there any validity to it?
I know, but you have to have data to back that up.
you think you will be proven correct in that state?
The data already shows that 3 million illegals voted.
Well thats good.
Lets get to the bottom of it.
Now 2017, can Americans expect a tax cut?
Can Americans in 2017 expect a new health-care plan rolled out by the Trump administration this year?
All right, last question, you get four hours of sleep or some crazy thing like that, when your head hits the pillow, do you ever say to yourself, I cant believe Im here.
I cannot believe that I am the president of the United States, when I wasnt a politician.
I didnt start out this way.
That wasnt my life goal.
Does that ever come into your mind?
Football.
how do you see this game?
Theyre all taking gas So youre rooting for the Patriots?
Sure, now Fox Sports is demanding I ask you to make a prediction.
You have to.
By how many points?
Alright, so thats your good presidential prediction.
Mr. President, thanks very much for taking the time.
Tucker Carlson (Fox News), March 15 Mr. President, thanks for joining us.
So last night, your tax return from 2005, the first two pages, appeared, and the reporter who got it, he said in his mailbox, said that the front of it is stamped client copy, and he suggested that it did not come from the IRS, but that it was leaked to him potentially by someone in the White House, wasnt it?
So it showed that you paid about a little less than 25 percent federal taxes on your income that year, which was more than a lot of people, but its still less than the 40 percent that wage earners, people do investments, would be paying.
Is it fair to have a tax system I know youre doing tax reform soon where wage earners pay twice the tax that investors do?
But you want to start and you can imagine a system where I think federal top is a little less than 40 percent.
Obviously taxes at the top on capital are 20, but youd like to see them at parity?
So you said, in a subsequent bill lets talk about this bill.
So its been seven years since Obamacare passed, and Republicans have said the whole time, were going to get rid of it, and were going to give you something better.
Are you satisfied with the bill were now looking at that Paul Ryan is pushing is the best the Republicans could do after seven years of thinking about it?
Right.
This bill has, as one of its centerpieces, a tax cut for investors that would primarily benefit people making over $250,000 a year.
Already done pretty well in the past 10 years, as you know.
A Bloomberg analysis showed that counties that voted for you, middle-class and working-class counties, would do far less well under this bill than the counties that voted for Hillary, the more affluent counties.
It seems like maybe this isnt consistent with the message of the last election.
Are you confident that Paul Ryan I mean, doesnt seem like you agree on economics or foreign policy or social policy.
Are you confident that you share enough in common that he can hes on board with your interests?
Right.
So on March 4, 6:35 in the morning, youre down in Florida, and you tweet, the former administration wiretapped me, surveilled me, at Trump Tower during the last election.
How did you find out?
You said, I just found out.
How did you learn that?
So, 51,000 people retweeted that.
So a lot of people thought that was plausible, they believe you, youre the president youre in charge of the agencies.
Every intelligence agency reports to you.
Why not immediately go to them and gather evidence to support that?
Why not wait to tweet about it until you can prove it?
Dont you devalue your words when you cant provide evidence?
Right, but youre the president.
You have the ability to gather all the evidence you want.
Do you talk to anyone before you tweet?
And is there anyone in the White House who can say to you, Mr. President, please dont tweet that, who you would listen to?
But then they say to you, but youre I mean, as you know, the response look, so you had this big speech to the joint session on Tuesday.
You had great press all week, bipartisan, and then you let off this tweet, and immediately, people say You cant back up what you say.
Do you think its okay to make the counterargument, even from people who support you, who say look, I support Donald Trump, I believe what he believes, and I want him to succeed badly, but if the president says something that cannot be proved or is demonstrably untrue, he devalues his own currency.
Does it ever go through any kind of mediator Do you show your staff and Last question.
European nationalism, obviously, is flowering, and a lot of it is about immigration and culture.
Do you think its possible to move a large Muslim population into the West and successfully integrate them into Western culture?
Have you seen that anywhere?
Could we do it here?
Mr. President, thanks.
Martha MacCallum (Fox News), April 28 Well, you made a pretty good effort to get a lot of things done in the past few days.
You are a registered Democrat for a long time, now Republican president of the United States, and people say, Well, President Trump is not an ideologue, he is a pragmatist.
How would you describe your political philosophy?
Like what, how would you change them?
You dont have to do that anymore.
You really try to make a lot of moves to shrink the size of government, to shrink the size of the bureaucracy.
But people say why not be concerned about the deficit?
Why allow it to balloon with this tax reform deal and why not touch entitlements because unless you do that, youre not really ever going to take a bite out of the spending.
Four buy one?
In terms of legislation youre going to see everywhere on Saturday that there was no major legislation passed in the first hundred days.
You have the Republican Congress Understood.
You are right and we have looked at the list.
I shouldve been more specific about having about health-care reform tax reform immigration reform?
Okay.
But my question for you is about is about Congress because when you were running you said Im going to do great deals with Congress, Im going to have great relationships on Capitol Hill.
Are you disappointed with how the Republicans have handled these big issues?
Health care went down the first time.
And there was some suggestion it might happen today but now its not going to happen.
I hear you, but, you know But I want to know about the leadership on this, because after the first health-care bill did not pass you said I have complete confidence in Paul Ryan.
Do you still have complete confidence that he can get these moderates on board with the House Freedom Caucus, because youve got to get everybody upon the raft?
So theyre going to get it done.
And the timeframe?
Next week?
Okay.
And a lot of people said they had all these years to put these bills together, these plans together, and they Maybe they didnt know that you were going to win, so they werent ready.
Yes.
Yes.
So what what do you say to the members of Congress who say well, you know, the presidents approval numbers are in the high 40s.
Im not necessarily going to, you know, bend to his will because on tax reform and on health care, I might lose my own election at home that you dont have the numbers to make it important for them to come along with you?
Right.
Well, that story is not is not going anywhere as you know.
I mean, that story has a lot of, sort of, avenues to it and the most recent one comes back to Mike Flynn who when he left when here signed you said that he was treated horribly and that you felt badly about that.
Given what we now are seeing on the payments from Turkey and Russia, would you stand by that comment?
I want to move on to a couple of other quick things because I know were short on time.
The huge cut that small businesses would see would also be enjoyed by hedge funds and also by real estate companies.
Is that going to make it tougher for you to get that big cut through for the past through past companies in your tax reform?
But your critics are going to say, Well, real estate companies like President Trumps company will benefit along with that middle cut, so is there is it going to make it harder for you to get that big cut in the middle, the 39 takes to 50?
Well eliminate those and then Yes.
So your life pretty much changed completely after Election Day, how would you say the presidency has changed you?
Do you ever think will may be one term would be enough of this kind of life?
Personal question for you, youre going back to New York.
Im surprised that you havent been back to New York yet since you became president.
Yes, we were around the corner, we know.
Yes.
Were looking forward to having your the first lady and your son will be here soon?
Mr. President, thank you very much.
Good to be with you.
Ainsley Earhardt (Fox News), June 23 Big news today, you didnt you said you didnt tape James Comey.
Do you want to explain that?
Why did you want him to believe that you possibly did that?
It was a smart way to make sure he stayed honest in those hearings.
Robert Mueller do you think he should recuse himself?
He is friends with James Comey.
He has hired attorneys that were part of Hillary Clintons foundation and given money to both President Obama and Hillary Clintons campaign.
Should he recuse himself?
Pete Hegseth (Fox News), Sep. 25 You have certainly started a national conversation this week, Mr. President, on the NFL.
You say the NFL situation is a very important situation.
Your critics say its been a distraction, but you say its critical.
And you talk about words like patriotism and citizenship.
Why is this such an important issue for you?
What prompted that in Alabama?
Why did you step out?
Mr. President, were here in Indiana.
Youre going to launch your tax reform plan in front of this crowd.
Who is your tax plan intended to help?
Are there any rates or brackets that are non-negotiable?
Mr. President, the health-care bill this week didnt went down in the Senate.
What about this plan makes you feel confident that it wont meet the same fate?
Do you still have confidence in Mitch McConnell?
Do you feel like when you start negotiating with Democrats, do you feel like you can trust Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi?
Youve been discussing a new deal?
Sean Hannity (Fox News), Oct. 11 How are you, Mr. President?
Its my second interview since youve been president.
You guys want to start with good news?
Do you want some good news?
You dont get a lot of good news in the media.
The markets up 25 percent since you were won.
You tweeted this out but nobody in the media brings it up.
So I said, you know what, Im going to bring it up tonight.
$5.2 trillion in wealth created.
We have the lowest unemployment rate in 16 years.
You came back to Pennsylvania.
I know youve been in Wisconsin and Michigan and Ohio and North Carolina because a lot of people still need opportunity and jobs.
Youre really here.
Youre going to be talking at length about your economic plan.
Lets talk about it.
Lets go through it.
So and this is important.
I mean, how many theres no two accountants that can give you the same liability to the government if you give them the same information.
Thats how complicated the tax code is.
You want to drop seven brackets to three?
You said you said the corporate rate.
which is so important, you said 20 percent is your max.
The top 10 percent pays 70 percent of the tax bill.
The bottom 50 percent pay 2 [percent] of the total income tax rate.
Why is the there are multinational corporations that have parked trillions of dollars in countries that offer them better tax relief.
Youre trying to incentive those trillions to come back here with a lower repatriation rate.
How low will that be?
And how much do you think you can bring back into the United States?
And what does it mean?
Youre never going to bring it back.
One of the things some people have brought up, like our Every time I turn tune in to anybody else in the media except Fox, they all have tax cuts for the wealthy.
Now the rate for some people, go goes down.
But if you live in a state like New York, or Illinois, and New Jersey, or California you wont be able to deduct your local or state income tax.
In other words, if you elect [politicians] that want to raise taxes, youre going to pay the penalty.
So thats not really true that this is a tax cut for the wealthy, as theyre portraying it.
What is your answer to that?
No income tax.
But you also a big part of it, youve already done.
And that is, youve ended a lot of the Obama era regulations, especially in industries like energy and coal.
There seems to be you have a very strong commitment.
You just recently went forward with Anwar.
Youve put in place opportunities for the coal mining industry, like fracking.
We do have an opportunity to be energy independent.
And there seems to be millions of high-paying career jobs for people available.
If that decision is made, how big a part is that for the economic recovery?
This isnt a bad area, is it?
You also won there.
You also won Pennsylvania, right?
Is he going to win Pennsylvania in 2020, too?
Yes.
The biggest obstacle, before you arrived here, I had an opportunity to interview a lot of people in this great crowd.
And I asked them basically three different questions.
What they thought of you.
Overwhelmingly, theres a lot of support for you here.
Congress when I asked them about what was your answer on Congress?
What was your answer on the media?
We saw what happened with health care and John McCain.
This economic plan sounds a lot to me like what Reagan did and that created 20 million new jobs and revenues doubled.
This is important for your agenda.
How do you get this through the Senate, which has not had a good record in the last 10 months?
Fake news.
Do you agree with that, fake news?
This is important.
In 1974, there was Truckers would benefit.
You do?
So with some people, you saw and heard Bob Corker.
Jon McCain wasnt there, even though I can run So thats got to be frustrating and disappointing.
You think you can get it done by the end of the year?
Three two.
I think theyll be higher tonight.
Im just guessing.
Barack Obama was the first president in history that never hit 3 percent GDP growth of a single year in his presidency, which I think speaks volumes.
Of the treasury.
A lot of people I was surprised, watching all last year with Colin Kaepernick.
The guy praised a murdering thug dictator.
He had socks that depicted cops as pigs.
And other issues, he actually donated to a charity that actually supported a cop killer.
And then we saw the NFL.
And you took it on, it appears, based on the letter that Roger Goodell put out yesterday, that Donald Trump initiated a debate over standing for the flag and our anthem and those that fought, bled and died and looks like you won.
One second.
Ive got to take a water break.
Theres no air conditioner.
This was important to you.
Obviously, the people of the country are with you.
Hundreds of thousands of people fought, bled hundreds of thousands died fighting under that flag.
When you look at the Obama years, Chicago.
One city, his adopted home town, 3,900 people were murdered.
In the last six years of Obamas presidency, 18,000 shootings.
I dont think he mentioned it but three or four times.
And disproportionately, his economic policies hurt black Americans, Hispanic Americans more.
How will your policies help minorities that are still struggling?
We watched a lot of high profile incidents during the Obama years.
Ferguson, Trayvon Martin down in Florida, Freddie Gray he called the he said the Cambridge police acted stupidly.
It seems every two or four years and Ive been now 30 years in radio, I just started my 23rd year at FOX that every two or four years thank you is that every two to four years the Democrats will play the race card and I resent it as a Conservative.
Because theyll say oh their policies theyre racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamaphobic and meanwhile their policies havent helped the minority communities in America.
Is there a way from the Federal governments perspective that you can bring economic opportunity and safety?
There was a lot of coverage of our phrase they would report in the media cryptic phrase the calm before the storm.
It seemed related to Rocket Man his term Kim Jong-un, in terms of him having ICBM capability, nuclear capability, firing missiles over Japan, our ally, threatening Guam, and potentially maybe being able to reach the United States, continental United States, with a nuclear weapon.
At some point, this is going to come to a head.
What was the calm before the storm?
Is it fair to say, if he keeps firing missiles, thats going to end?
You dont want to telegraph.
When you said The calm before the storm youre not going to talk about that either?
Iran, it was interesting.
It was interesting.
Bill Clinton, when he made the deal with Kim Jong-uns father, Kim Jong-il, he actually said that this is a good deal for the American people.
It was not.
It seems the same mistake was made with President Obama and the Iranian deal.
Theres reports you will decertify this -you can also pull out of it.
John [Bolton] is suggesting you just pull out completely.
Why decertify, and not just scrap it?
Or do both?
Do you know what youll do?
Why not, right?
Yes.
Plane loads.
You want out of this deal.
Let me ask you about immigration.
You came up with a 70-point plan.
It was fear, after you had met with Pelosi and Schumer and you were talking about DACA one of the things Ive always noticed is, we always get the tax increase, we never get the spending cuts, you always get the consideration on immigration, you never get the wall built.
Part of it is there will be, you said, no deal on DACA, unless, of course were going to end chain migration, youre going to build a wall thats going to be see-through now, so the The wall will be built.
So you say (inaudible) so no amnesty no chain migration no DACA, until you fund the wall I have identified, and Ive even talked to this, Ive never seen any one person face as much in terms of attacks as you have.
You have a media thats hostile.
You have Democrats that are hostile.
You have Republicans that are hostile.
A lot deep state that has been leaking on you.
And one of the things that has come up almost throughout your whole presidency is this Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia obsession.
Heres my question, I interviewed Julian Assange five times.
Ive talked to him other times.
He has said its not Russia.
There was no collusion.
They didnt come the DNC note did not come from them.
Congressman Dana Rohrabacher met with him and he says he has proof positive evidence that would show the Trump campaign never colluded with Russia.
He just want is it in the best interest of the country that if he has that information that he should give it?
It seems Im guessing here he wants in return to be left alone.
Should the country does the country deserve to know the truth that (be hows that)?
A lot.
Yes.
Youve only taken one thats since youve been president.
But Im glad to have you.
Hey, wow.
Come on.
Help me out here.
Thank you.
Mr. President, I think I remember one time we had an early conversation and Im going to end the interview on this, and this is how Ive always felt.
I just I have you said, Well, you know I have all these things and maybe you want to play golf on my course one day.
You said this long before we were friends before you ever ran for office.
And then when you ran I just said I only want one thing: help our country.
Lets help the forgotten men and women.
Lets keep this country safe.
And I think thats our prayer for you and the country.
The president of the United States.
Brian Kilmeade (Fox News Radio), Oct. 17 Hey Mr. President, how are you?
Great to see you.
This is radio.
Right, you look great.
But youre looking youre TV friendly.
So, I know this is a big week.
How important is getting this budget passed?
To even get to the tax reform conversation, Mr. President?
On tax reform or the budget on the budget in particular right?
Right.
I talked to Sen. Joe Manchin yesterday who really seems to enjoy your interactions.
And he says if they could give me a little something, I could deliver six to eight Democrats.
Number one, do you believe that?
And No.
2, are you willing to negotiate?
In West Virginia?
So what Mick Mulvaney brought up to me this morning on television was no one talks about the zero percent, because theyve up to $24,000, youre not going to pay any tax, thats part of tax reform Also, people are focused on the corporate rate deduction, what about the small business?
Right.
So you golfed with Rand Paul over the weekend, and I think most agree, including Mark Short this morning, said that hes going to be the greatest challenge, because he does not like to vote for budgets or tax reform.
I mean, can you be friends can you be friendly with someone thats going to vote against that?
Have you talked to him?
Have you tried?
Right.
Right.
So its going to be a big week obviously, and theres certain things you zone in on, and every Presidents got his preference, some (inaudible) foreign policy.
I think you love the numbers, the budget, and the economy.
But Ive got ask you something the big picture So I looked at those numbers So are you saying when you when they raise premiums, or raise deductibles, theyre trying to increase their profits instead of doing an honest job about giving people insurance?
Are they being dishonest in going too profit-oriented?
You would know better than me.
Right.
Sen. Alexander and Sen. Murray are working on a bipartisan plan.
They stopped when it looked as though Lindsey Graham and Cassidy had something going.
Is this to force their hand to come up with something?
No, not so much this paper, but so much the $7 billion, Im not making that payment.
Does that help So you did it to push action?
David Axelrod said last night that youre pulling this back and (inaudible) tearing up the Iran deal is your attempt to obliterate the Obama legacy.
Is it?
I havent.
And thats why you handed it to me ahead of time, gave me a little bit of time to study.
So some other news that broke today and you tweeted out, Congressman Marino was pulled back as drug czar.
What went into that?
Big expos on 60 Minutes.
New HHS secretary, I was talking to Kellyanne Conway, today.
It seems like youre close.
Do you want to go over any names?
You came out with Mitch McConnell yesterday and seemed on the same page and then said, Ill take any questions.
And, it was just a regular it was like a press conference youd see on a sporting event.
I know.
Why is that?
One of the questions was about writing the Green Berets soldiers and ends up being a bigger story.
Can I ask you what you thought about when you brought up past presidents and what theyve done?
Do you want to clarify anything?
No, I meant seeing you happy?
Were fair.
Thank you.
Right.
I think were fair.
Thank you.
I appreciate the time you gave us and the Brian Kilmeade Show.
And this morning.
And, thanks for having us out here.
Thank you, Mr. President.
All right.
So, were here in the Eisenhower Building and the president actually gave us my own notes for the interview, so thats great.
There he is.
Thanks for listening.
Keep it here.
Im Brian Kilmeade.
Maria Bartiromo (Fox Business), Oct. 20 Mr. President, thanks so much for sitting down with me today.
Here we are on the week that the Dow Jones industrial average just hit 23,000, five-and-a-third trillion [dollars] of market value created since your election.
And largely, because of this anticipation and hope that your policies will get implemented.
Tell us where we stand on the tax plan right now.
It it could be quite historic.
Thats a big deal, that on Sunday, exactly.
Do you think you have the votes?
Yes.
You soured on the health-care bipartisan plan a bit right from Lamar Alexander and Patty Murray?
Yes, Im interested about that because even your supporters say, you know, hes got fantastic policies.
We want to see this through.
But the bickering and the feuding actually gets in the way.
So obviously the feuding with Sen. Corker I think theres a personal thing going on between you and Sen. McCain.
Do you worry that this bickering and feuding gets in the way of your agenda?
And, you see the job creation, as well this year.
If they cant get this tax bill done this year, should they forego Thanksgiving and Christmas?
Should they be here if they dont have a bill on your desk by Thanksgiving?
Paul Ryan did an interview this week and said you are insisting that they have a fourth bracket.
Its on your insistence that they have a fourth bracket.
I know that youre very focused on the middle class, but do you want to raise taxes on the rich with the fourth bracket?
But, see, thats what I dont understand, and I followed your policies really closely.
The state and local income tax deduction eliminations you take that away and then you go to a fifth bracket or a fourth bracket however you want to say it and you get a higher rate for their top earners.
If the top earners pay 80 percent of the taxes why are you so afraid to cut taxes on the top earners?
Of course.
This is not about Okay.
Well Putin took his.
Thats great.
Its a big deal in the corporate rate for sure.
Yeah.
People got used to like 1.5 percent growth for a long time.
Let me ask about your courting of the Democrats recently.
I mean the reason that I brought up this other bracket is because I feel like the Republicans get bullied by the left, by this whole talking point of its always tax cuts for the rich.
You been Exactly.
Are you getting bullied again, are you getting bullied again?
If you get a fifth bracket, are you getting bullied?
Right, well you go back with Chuck Schumer.
You both from New York Is this helpful in terms of negotiations?
Right.
And thats been your priority.
Youre better than President Bush, I mean the Federal Pages are down 30 percent under your leadership.
So there are more regulations rollback See I think thats why weve had a 3.1 percent GDP.
Because of the regulation roll back that you did there are some industries that are not that regulated.
Im wondering what you think about tech right now?
Because you have these companies that are more powerful than ever before, theyve got everything all the data on us.
Theyre selling the data.
To the tech companies these more regulated?
Mr. President who do you want to see running the Fed?
Isnt there a way that you can get Taylor and Powell in there?
Because youve got a vice chairman opening as well, you can actually put them both in there.
Is that in your thinking?
Look you had a very good victory this week in terms of the Senate vote on the budget, I know that.
But youve had all this money going out, new money that people werent expected, right?
You have money now going to California with the wildfires, Puerto Rico, Texas, Florida.
Many have got defense you want to build up the military.
Youve said many times the present President Obama underfunded defense.
Where does this money come from?
And how are you going to get control longer term of the debt and deficit in this country?
When is that conversation going to pick up?
Are you going to tie the infrastructure to the tax plan?
Are you gonna remove the budget caps, in terms of defense spending?
You have had tough talk on everybody.
Do you ever feel like sometimes, some of your unscripted Tweets, unscripted comments get in the way of the larger message?
I have spoken with a lot of supporters of yours and while they love the policies; they say we, you know we feel like we are always defending something he said, that he really didnt mean, to say that way.
Do you think that is getting in the way of your agenda and the overall message?
You need bully pulpit to tell the American people why tax reform is important Youre right.
Were watching your Twitter feed So you Its not just the tweets, Tweeting is good.
I mean having that direct relationship.
Its just tweeting on other subjects other than the message that you really want to focus on.
You definitely have an incredible connection to voters and to supporters The American people.
Period.
I understand.
Its totally unconventional.
But it works.
I have to ask you about that emotional press conference yesterday with Gen. Kelly, your chief of staff.
The way he came out and talked about his son and defended you getting criticism from the Gold Star family well, the media, really.
Were you expecting that?
He spoke very well yesterday.
Its a very tough The Ccongresswoman, Frederica Wilson, she said Oh, everything he said was because hes just trying to keep his job.
Thats incredible.
I just want to ask you before I lose you, about the border.
And youve said you want a legislative fix for DACA.
What else do you need to see in terms of the border?
What do you want overall?
And last week on this program we had Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
He commended you.
He congratulated you for decertifying Iran in what you did last week.
Do you think theyre going to get Europeans to support you in terms of sanctions, in terms of not selling technology to Iran?
And on North Korea, is our policy with China just about what it does with North Korea or do we have a separate policy with China for something else?
Right.
For the first time ever Mr. President, would you like to add anything else that I may have missed?
When we end, then where we begin and thats taxes.
You cant tell companies what to do, right?
Are you sure theyre going to get that savings in the taxes in terms of bringing that $3 trillion back and use it to hire people?
Or are they going to buy back stock?
Overseas.
Mr. President thanks so much for joining us.
So appreciated.
(Second part of interview begins.)
Im so excited to be here.
Its incredible.
Ready?
Okay.
So Mr. President, its been nine months, have you changed?
Have you changed being president?
You have I look at the federal registry, youre absolutely right.
Youre down 30 percent.
You mentioned the tax planning side.
Can you give us any sense of this fifth bracket?
I mean if you do a fifth a bracket, is that a million dollars, is it $2 million?
Whats the number?
Mr. President, thank you so much.
Its really good to see you.
I appreciate it very much.
Thank you.
I hope to come back soon.
It is gorgeous.
Its absolutely spectacular.
Yes, we were talking earlier about about the Russia thing.
Let me just ask you, you theres a report that you are your legal team is saying yes, do an interview with Robert Mueller.
Is that what youre going to do?
Yes.
Mr. President, if there were, I think it would have leaked.
Is he going to look into it?
Mr. President, youve been terrific today, and youve given us a lot of your time, and we so appreciate it.
Thank you.
Okay.
Great.
Lou Dobbs (Fox Business), Oct. 25 In nine months in office, youve already accomplished more in the way of job creation.
The move in the equities markets has been extraordinary and record setting.
All of the indexes, at or near record levels.
You have accomplished so much in that nine months.
And yet, as you say, we need tax reform.
Youre meeting resistance from within your own party.
Youre meeting resistance from the Democrats.
How do you move from here?
A lot of love and a lot to get done.
And and the and tax reform is critical because of what you have established as the standard now for economic growth under the Trump presidency, tax reform is going to be absolutely critical to driving that growth, job creation and bringing capital back, which youve been talking about for two years before you were elected Absolutely.
So where do we go, in terms of capital repatriation for corporate America, how do you incentivize corporations to get back to America with all of that money for investment in jobs, plant equipment, research and development?
Right.
A conservative number.
And the middle class you say this is for the middle class and small business and the pass-through rates are all very attractive.
What do you expect the impact to be for working men and women, the middle class, those who aspire to be in the middle class?
Right.
Well youre the first president to talk openly and honestly about offshoring of production, the outsourcing of jobs.
Millions of jobs That that have begun, under your administration, to come back to the country.
The idea that made in America, buy in America, hire in America, how how likely is it that that can actually be realized with a with a business community that has fought those on the wrong side of those issues for a very long time?
Right.
How likely is it that there will be a resolution on NAFTA in these current negotiations?
And So as you look at the agreement that has, by the most conservative estimates, costs the United States $1 trillion over the course of over the course of the past 23 years since its inception Okay.
Right.
Right.
There was a Every The when you focus first on free trade, people are like oh, my gosh.
Hes talking like an isolationist, A protectionist.
And then they started looking at the numbers to see that we are, amongst all of our trading partners that this country is the only one who said, You know, please, take what you want.
We dont have to have a mature, intelligent relationship with you.
We dont have to have balanced trade.
Every other major partner does precisely that.
Right.
U.S.
The role of business in this country, critical, off fundamental to the to the countrys wellbeing and its future to the creation of jobs.
But business has taken such a voice in this town, in this swamp that you are the only countervailing influence to that dominance of U.S. multinationals in this country.
And its the country owes you a great debt on so much.
But on that in particular.
And I And you have focused from June 16th of 2015 on the relationship of our borders, our sovereignty, our economy, whether youre looking at the opioid crisis in this country or the import of drugs that all crosses that border.
Youre being pushed back against, by the leadership of the House and the Senate on the issue of funding a wall in its entirety.
You have been pushed back against talking about changing all of those trade agreements, again, all the external issues that are so critical to the countrys future, your vision for this country.
How in the world are we going to be able to deal with all of these issues if you if you cannot bring the Republican party together?
Oh, yes.
For drugs?
Do you have a favorite yet?
Tough job.
Youre obviously enthused about what youre going to get done.
Youve got to be immensely gratified at what youve been able to do often with a recalcitrant Congress and Senate.
Going forward, theres another wall and theres a wall thats just fallen between the American public, the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clintons campaign.
They funded something called the Trump dossier which they ballyhooed for some time.
We now know who paid for it.
The DNC and Hillary Clinton and one, as yet, unnamed republican.
Do you want to Do you have a suspect?
Right.
I think her word that she likes to use, its so serviceable about that dossier, debunked.
Its been debunked.
And, contemporaneously, suddenly the House Intelligence Committee, the House Oversight Committee are turning to the Democratic Party and talking about not talking about but beginning the investigation of something called Collusion with the Russians.
Your thoughts?
Right.
Right.
Relationships you were criticized for even trying to court, if you will, President Xi of China.
Everyone, the so-called intelligentsia of this countrys foreign policy establishment, said youre wasting your time, it just cant be done.
And obviously youve made significant progress with him and Right.
written into the Constitution.
Hopefully the whole world.
Anything to report to America on your conversation with President Xi?
Right.
Youre nearing a decision on who will chair the Fed.
Any hints?
We appreciate it.
All right.
And you I do, and I think I may I constrain myself?
Because an ad hoc adviser to the president I personally believe that Janet Yellen might be worth keeping.
I havent been utterly rejected Right.
Absolutely.
And Im saying that, by the way, not being any fan of interest rate hikes by the Fed here, and as has been discussed since December of 2015.
I have to ask you in conclusion and I really appreciate your time, as does our audience you came into this job fighting like hell.
And you are fighting like hell every day.
I I thats And Ive got to ask you, I mean, youre one of the most I would say, by the left particularly, reviled, even hated men to ever hold your post.
Youre also one of the most loved and respected In history.
And how does that feel?
How where is Donald Trump today, as you are just now beginning your presidency?
Without question Right.
Right.
Right.
Yes.
And Yes.
Well I you you are a, if I may say, everything as advertised as you ran for President.
And appreciate everything youre doing.
Thanks so much.
Mr. President, thank you.
Trump on the 401(k) tax break: 'Maybe we'll use it as negotiating'
Political journalist Mark Halperin (Photo by Evan Agostini/AP) In a front-page article in May 2016, the New York Times reported allegations that Donald Trump had a history of making unwanted sexual contact with women.
Jill Harth, a former beauty pageant promoter, accused Trump of groping me under the table during a dinner in the 1990s.
Temple Taggart, a 1997 Miss USA contestant, claimed that Trump twice kissed her on the lips without consent.
Mark Halperin, co-managing editor of Bloomberg Politics at the time of the article's publication, said the allegations against Trump were not terribly serious.
If that's the best they got on these issues and Donald Trump, Donald Trump should be celebrating that story, Halperin said on MSNBC's Morning Joe, where he now appears regularly as a senior political analyst for NBC News.
There's some troubling things in the piece, but there's nothing illegal, there's nothing even kind of, like, beyond boorish or politically incorrect, which is built into the Donald Trump brand.
So, if that's the best they have in this score, Donald Trump can celebrate this story, politically.
Halperin was right about one thing: Trump's alleged misconduct did not hurt him, politically not enough to prevent him from winning the White House, anyway, even after The Washington Post published a video, five months later, in which Trump could be heard boasting in 2005 about the very behavior claimed by Harth and Taggart.
In this video from 2005, Donald Trump prepares for an appearance on "Days of Our Lives" with actress Arianne Zucker.
He is accompanied to the set by "Access Hollywood" host Billy Bush.
The Post has edited this video for length.
(Obtained by The Washington Post) But Halperin's assertion that there was nothing illegal about Trump's alleged groping and kissing was wrong, and such displays of dismissiveness could work against him now, as he faces his own allegations of sexual harassment.
Five women have told CNN that Halperin sexually harassed them in the 1990s and 2000s, when he was the political director at ABC News.
Here's CNN reporter Oliver Darcy's summary of the allegations: The stories of harassment shared with CNN range in nature from propositioning employees for sex to kissing and grabbing one's breasts against her will.
Three of the women who spoke to CNN described Halperin as, without consent, pressing an erection against their bodies while he was clothed.
Halperin denies grabbing a woman's breasts and pressing his genitals against the three women.
Halperin did acknowledge some wrongdoing, however.
During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me, he said in a statement.
I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain.
For that, I am deeply sorry, and I apologize.
Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work, while I properly deal with this situation.
We find the story and the allegations very troubling, MSNBC added in a statement.
Mark Halperin is leaving his role as a contributor, until the questions around his past conduct are fully understood.
When the Times reported earlier this month on alleged sexual harassment by Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, Halperin retweeted a strong condemnation by Morning Joe co-host Mika Brzezinski.
At other times, Halperin has seemed to take a gentler tone toward prominent men accused of sexual harassment.
In July 2016, he landed the first interview with Trump after Fox News cut ties with its longtime chairman, Roger Ailes.
What do you think about what happened to your friend, Roger Ailes?
Halperin asked on his Showtime program, The Circus.
Trump's response I think it's so sad; he's such a great guy was widely covered at the time, but Halperin's framing of the situation is also notable, in retrospect.
He presented Ailes's fall as something that happened to him, as opposed to something Ailes brought on himself by mistreating women.
When Trump defended Bill O'Reilly against sexual harassment allegations in April, Halperin characterized the president's move as strategically unwise, without passing judgment on the substance of the claims against O'Reilly.
Doing what he did yesterday, in commenting on Bill O'Reilly to reporters, in the Oval Office, right before his statement on Syria is not normal for a president, Halperin said on Morning Joe.
It creates a huge distraction, gets tons of coverage.
And yesterday should have been about projecting strength, as he did, on Syria.
But it's pure Trump and classic Trump for him to then also be willing to address Bill O'Reilly.
There's no reason for him to address it.
None.
Missing in Halperin's take was some acknowledgment that O'Reilly's alleged behavior is unacceptable and that Trump, if he was going to speak up, ought to have said so.
As Halperin works on damage control, previous missed opportunities to take a firm stand against sexual harassment are a potential liability.
President Trump pledged to "spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis," while speaking to reporters in Bedminster N.J. on Aug. 10.
(The Washington Post) This post has been updated.
Two and a half months ago, President Trump said he was going to declare the opioid crisis a national emergency.
Then, for a long time, he didn't.
Last week, he again said that he was about to declare it a national emergency, and then he reiterated that was his plan this week.
He's still not going to do it not really.
Trump will declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency Thursday, rather than a national emergency.
That may seem like quibbling with the president's words, but the latter would carry significantly more weight.
The Post's Jenna Johnson reports: .
.
.
The president will stop short of declaring a more sweeping national state of emergency that would have given states access to funding from the federal Disaster Relief Fund, just as they would be following a tornado or hurricane.
Officials who briefed reporters said that declaring that sort of emergency is not a good fit for a longtime crisis and did not offer authorities that the government doesn't already have.
But as the New York Times notes, a national emergency would have triggered the rapid allocation of federal funding to address the issue.
A public health emergency does not do that by itself.
Several experts on the opioid crisis are bashing the move as a half-measure, NPR reports.
In contrast, other public health officials, including some who served in the Obama administration, are arguing that the "public health emergency" is indeed a better fit.
Whatever the motivation for the scaled-back response, though, let's be clear: The president did repeatedly promise to make the crisis a national emergency, using those specific words.
We're going to draw it up, and we're going to make it a national emergency, he said on Aug. 10 at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J.
It looked for a while as though Trump might not actually do anything, as more than two months passed.
Then, last week, he said the announcement was indeed coming.
Q: What about declaring a written national emergency for this crisis?
You've talked about it but you havent put that piece of paper together.
TRUMP: We are going to be doing that next week.
By the way, you know, that's a big step.
By the way, people have no understanding of what you just said.
That is a very, very big statement.
It's a very important step.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders also seemed to suggest that it would indeed be a national emergency, saying Oct. 18, Theres a very in-depth legal process that goes with declaring a national emergency.
And Trump said in interview that aired Wednesday night on Fox Business Network the day before the move was to be announced Next week, Im going to declare an emergency, national emergency on drugs.
He apparently meant Thursday and not quite a national emergency.
President Trump receives high-fives from students as he arrives at Dallas Love Field in Texas on Oct. 25.
(Jim Watson/Agence France-Presse/Getty Images) I have little doubt that Trump supporters will dismiss this as the media over-analyzing Trump's exact words.
Maybe he meant a public health emergency all this time and just used the wrong word.
Maybe Sanders used the wrong word, too.
Trump's own opioid commission, which is headed by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie (R), seemed to lump the two together in its recommendations to Trump, urging him to declare a national emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act.
(The White House is using the former act; the latter would be a true national emergency.)
But the Public Health Service Act itself differentiates a national emergency from its own powers to declare a public health emergency (emphasis added): (5) URGENT OR EMERGENCY PUBLIC HEALTH CARE NEED.
For purposes of this section and section 214, the term urgent or emergency public health care need means a health care need, as determined by the Secretary, arising as the result of (A) a national emergency declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C.
1601 et seq.
); (B) an emergency or major disaster declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5121 et seq.
); (C) a public health emergency declared by the Secretary under section 319 of this Act; or (D) any emergency that, in the judgment of the Secretary, is appropriate for the deployment of members of the Corps.
For a White House that doesn't generally seem to have a game plan, it just confirms that it is playing fast and loose and that Trump doesn't choose his words carefully.
As the opioid commission noted in its report, an estimated 142 people die every day from opioids a death toll equal to September 11th every three weeks.
For almost four of those 9/11-equaling three-week periods, Trump and the White House have left the impression that a full-scale national emergency was coming, never seeking to rein in that pledge.
And given the smaller-scale public health emergency declaration, it's even less clear why it took 11 weeks to make this happen.
On an issue of such import, it would seem that clarity is the best policy.
The White House for some reason didn't provide that, even with untold lives in the balance.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) said on Oct. 24 that he will not seek reelection in 2018.
Flake said the Republican Party under President Trump is at risk of becoming a "fearful, backward-looking minority party."
(Bastien Inzaurralde/The Washington Post) During the 2012 election, I was a reporter in Phoenix covering Arizona politics.
Arizona was one of the states most severely hit by the economic downturn, and voters on both sides of the aisle were looking to get behind candidates who could deliver the prosperity that many believed was promised as part of the American Dream.
At the top of the Republican ticket was Mitt Romney, a former Massachusetts governor with significant business experience.
And Jeff Flake, then a representative from Arizona, was hoping the state's voters would send him to the Senate.
But despite holding many of the values mirrored by many in the GOP at that time opposition to same-sex marriage, opposition to abortion and conservative views on business and the military the two men ran into resistance from some white evangelicals, arguably one of the most influential voting blocs in the Republican Party.
Both men were members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The Washington Post's Philip Rucker wrote about it in 2011: At a gathering of Christian conservative voters in Washington on Friday, evangelical megachurch pastor Robert Jeffress, chosen to introduce Texas Gov.
Rick Perry, attacked Romney by telling reporters the Mormon Church is a cult and Mormonism is not Christianity.
Perry quickly distanced himself from that view, telling reporters in Iowa that he did not agree with the remarks.
When Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, addressed the same summit Saturday, he never uttered the word Mormon.
He spoke of the nations heritage of religious faith and tolerance, but not of his own faith.
Although Romney won the Republican primary in Arizona, he didn't win white evangelical voters, according to Pew.
White evangelicals got behind former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum, a self-described evangelical Catholic.
Both of the top candidates in the Republican Senate primary were Mormons.
Arizona Republicans ultimately chose Flake.
Jeffress never backed down from his comments about the Mormon faith, although he did support Romney in the general election.
But just one election cycle later, Jeffress, pastor of the 13,000-member First Baptist Church in Dallas, ended up vouching for the salvation of a very different candidate: Donald Trump.
I am grateful we have a president who believes in the power of prayer, he said.
Trump is the most powerful man in the world, he is not too proud to bow his head in the Oval Office, and ask God for help.
That Flake a former missionary and the son of a bishop feels that there's no place for him in his state's GOP is in part because of a shift in some white evangelicals in the Trump era exemplified by Jeffress and other white evangelical voters.
More white evangelicals chose Trump in 2016 than Romney in 2012, according to Pew.
In the 2012 primary, Jeffress attacked Romney's faith.
In the 2016 primary, Jeffress told the Dallas Observer that focusing on Trump's faith he's a Presbyterian protestant who said he doesn't pray for forgiveness shouldn't be a primary concern.
The Bible does not give a checklist for who to vote for, because when the Bible was written there was no such thing as voting.
So I think certainly a candidates faith is one consideration, but its not always the most important consideration.
I think character, I think competency, leadership I think electability is an issue.
I think you have to factor all of those into the equation.
In the same interview, Jeffress, who is now on an advisory council of evangelical leaders, went on to say that when it comes to making some policies, he could care less about Trump's temperament, tone and vocabulary: A couple weeks ago, Max Lucado, a very respected Christian, wrote an op-ed denouncing Trump because of his tone and because of his vocabulary.
When Im looking for a leader whos gonna sit across the negotiating table from a nuclear Iran, or whos gonna be intent on destroying ISIS, I couldnt care less about that leaders temperament or his tone or his vocabulary.
Frankly, I want the meanest, toughest son of a gun I can find.
And I think thats the feeling of a lot of evangelicals.
Jeffress is not the only prominent evangelical who has led his followers to embrace Trump's worldview, which Christian conservative Michael Gerson writes is problematic and actually goes against the best of the Judeo-Christian tradition.
The religious right is making itself a pitiful appendage to this squalid agenda.
If Christian conservatives are loyal enough, Bannon promises that they can be the folks who saved the Judeo-Christian West.
All that is required is to abandon the best of the Judeo-Christian tradition: a belief in the inherent value and dignity of every life.
Just four years ago, a solidly conservative incumbent like Flake could count on Arizona voters to back him over Kelli Ward, a former state lawmaker criticized for supporting conspiracy theories and making controversial comments about the health and age of Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.).
But times have changed, as Flake acknowledged in his Post op-ed.
We have again forgotten who we are supposed to be.
There is a sickness in our system and it is contagious.
How many more disgraceful public feuds with Gold Star families can we witness in silence before we ourselves are disgraced?
How many more times will we see moral ambiguity in the face of shocking bigotry and shrug it off?
How much more damage to our democracy and to the institutions of American liberty do we need to witness in silence before we count ourselves as complicit in that damage?
As of now, it seems like the best people to answer Flake's questions are the millions of Trump voters, including 80 percent of white evangelicals, who sent the president to the White House and obviously, Trump himself.
Trump on the 401(k) tax break: 'Maybe we'll use it as negotiating'
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Oct. 26 lauded the passage of the budget as an "enormous step" toward tax reform, and said the plan would be released "very shortly."
(Reuters) House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Oct. 26 lauded the passage of the budget as an "enormous step" toward tax reform, and said the plan would be released "very shortly."
(Reuters) House Republicans agreed to budget legislation Thursday morning, narrowly overcoming internal dissension and Democratic opposition to clear a major obstacle in the GOPs quest to pass large-scale tax cuts.
The budget legislation authorizes special procedures that will allow Republicans to reduce federal revenue over the coming decade by as much as $1.5 trillion without Democratic help.
Its adoption launches what GOP leaders hope will be several weeks of intense legislating, culminating in House passage before Thanksgiving.
It shows the strength of the willingness to get tax reform done, House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said of the 216-212 vote.
No Democrats voted for the budget Thursday, nor did 20 Republicans, indicating ongoing qualms about the tax push within the party.
A key holdout bloc consisted of Republican lawmakers from states with high local tax burdens, who have resisted the GOPs plan to eliminate or at least scale back the income-tax deduction for state and local taxes.
Several members of that group threatened to hold up the budget unless their concerns were addressed.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady speaks as House Speaker Paul Ryan, left, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, right, and other congressional Republicans listen during a press event on tax reform on Sept. 27 at the Capitol in Washington.
(Alex Wong/Getty Images) Twelve Republicans from the high-tax states of New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, where many voters stand to be hit hard if the deduction were eliminated, voted against the budget after no deal on it emerged.
[GOP leaders make last-minute push for unity on taxes ahead of critical vote] Still, House leaders were able to persuade enough of the balking lawmakers to advance the process.
A highly anticipated meeting scheduled for Wednesday night between the holdouts and House leaders was canceled shortly before it was set to begin, after party whips appeared to secure enough votes.
Every Republican member of the California and Illinois delegations, whose constituents are also subject to relatively high local taxes, supported the budget, and several New York members waited to cast their no votes until GOP leaders had obtained a majority, indicating that they were unwilling to hold up the tax bill.
McCarthy said he believed that several House Republicans who opposed the budget for reasons unrelated to the tax bill ultimately will be there for tax reform.
But one leader of the pro-deduction bloc said that despite the budgets passage, the tax bill itself cannot pass until GOP leaders deal definitively with the issue.
I know, and they know, that there were people that voted yes only to keep the process going forward but who disagree with the fact that we dont have a deal yet, said Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.), who voted against the budget.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) on Oct. 26 called the Republicans' budget "an assault, a ripoff, a shakedown, a looting of the middle class."
(Reuters) Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee who has been negotiating a deal on the deduction, said Wednesday he expected an agreement to be reached in the coming week.
Before the rollout of the whole tax legislation and bringing it to the floor, all those is and ts will be dotted and crossed, Reed said.
Several of the concerned members met with House leaders after the budget vote Thursday, and House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.)
said negotiations will continue through the weekend.
Theres been no agreement, but theres a lot of discussion about how to fix their problem, he said.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.)
said in a statement after the budget vote that he will introduce a tax reform bill on Nov. 1.
He added that his committee will begin a committee markup, a meeting at which members can introduce potential changes to the bill and vote on them, on Nov. 6.
Scaling back plans to eliminate the state-and-local-tax deduction are a potential land mine for the Republican tax writers.
Striking the provision from the tax code entirely would generate more than $1 trillion in additional revenue that could offset the rate cuts that are integral to the GOP plan.
Scaling it back could mean scaling back the rate cuts or other provisions.
The effect that Im looking for on the taxpayer probably cuts that number about in half, MacArthur said.
The fight over the deduction is only the most visible of many other battles that could soon break out into the open.
President Trump is at odds with key congressional leaders about whether tax breaks for retirement savings should be changed, for instance, while sweeping changes planned for business taxation could prove to be thorniest of all.
The budgets passage came after months of wrangling between various factions of the Republican Party, with adherents of supply-side economics facing off with deficit hawks, as well as with members with more parochial concerns.
The House Budget Committee crafted a spending blueprint that included a pathway to cutting $200 billion in federal spending over the coming decade, while envisioning a tax overhaul that did not add to the federal deficit.
But the Senate version of the budget did not provide a path for spending cuts and authorized a tax bill that would add up to $1.5 trillion to the deficit.
The House Republican leaders argue that cutting taxes will spark economic growth that will drive up federal revenue, ultimately offsetting the revenue loss.
But Democrats, some rank-and-file Republicans and most economists dispute that claim.
I know my Republican colleagues desperately want to believe that the tax cuts in their budget will pay for themselves and usher in a new era of economic growth, or at least they want the American people to believe that, said Rep. John Yarmuth (D-Ky.), the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
But the record is clear: This approach has failed time and time again.
[Deficits, schmeficits: House conservatives cast aside fiscal warnings to make way for tax cuts] While congressional tax writers have been quietly crafting the legislation behind closed doors for months, Thursdays vote formally kicks off the bill-writing process.
While House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) has called for the bill to clear the House by Thanksgiving, the Senate is expected to engage in a parallel process that could stretch into December.
If both chambers succeed in passing legislation, a conference would resolve the differences between the chambers.
Ryan warned in a Wednesday interview at a Reuters-hosted event that hundreds of lobbyists would soon swarm Capitol Hill, hoping to preserve the tax provisions treasured by their clients.
He compared the legislative effort ahead to a white-water rafting voyage.
Were about to go through Class 5 rapids, which is the biggest rapid you can go through, he said.
Weve got to make sure everybody stays in the boat, and we get the boat down the river.
Ed OKeefe contributed to this report.
Read more at PowerPost
Trump on the 401(k) tax break: 'Maybe we'll use it as negotiating'
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Oct. 26 lauded the passage of the budget as an "enormous step" toward tax reform, and said the plan would be released "very shortly."
(Reuters) The Republican House and Senate have now adopted their annual budget resolution, missing the legal deadline by more than six months.
Congress has also failed to pass a single regular spending bill for the fiscal year that began on Oct. 1, opting instead for a stopgap measure that runs out in early December.
This is nothing new: Congress hasnt completed work on all of its spending bills by the Oct. 1 deadline since 1996, and in some years hasnt even bothered to adopt a budget blueprint.
Established in 1974, the congressional budget process now seems broken.
Partisan conflict and creaky rules have undermined the process, and with it Congresss budgetary discipline.
This is how its supposed to work Under the Congressional Budget Act, fiscal work is supposed to proceed in an orderly, scheduled way each year.
The president is to submit a budget proposal by the first Monday in February, and Congress is to adopt its own blueprint by April 15.
This congressional budget resolution can, but does not have to, set up the fast-track reconciliation process, described in more detail below.
The budget resolution is not signed into law, but it can represent an important statement of a partys priorities and has become a highly partisan document.
No member of the minority party has voted for a budget resolution offered by the majority party since 2008.
And 1997 was the last year that a budget resolution received more than a small handful of minority party votes in either chamber.
[President Trump is trying to reach across the aisle.
Good luck with that.]
The Appropriations Committees in both chambers are to follow with a set of separate spending bills; since 2007, there have been 12.
Each deals with particular federal functions, such as defense or the environment, and are to be completed before the start of the next fiscal year on Oct. 1.
Annual spending bills bear greater political burdens Lawmakers and party leaders come to Washington with many policy and political goals, but when Congress is as gridlocked as it has been in recent years, they find fewer opportunities to pursue them.
Instead, the few must-pass bills considered each year, including the spending measures needed to keep the federal government running, become the only outlets for these legislative hopes.
Managing such conflict on budget-related measures in the House is made more difficult by the rules governing how leaders bring spending bills to the floor.
Under long-standing House practices, the majority partys leaders tend to allow individual legislators wide latitude to offer amendments to spending measures.
Through the mid-1990s, leaders treated a wide range of House bills the same way, leaving them open for amendment.
But in recent years, those opportunities have all but disappeared on non-spending bills.
Since 2011, the House Rules Committee has sent only 11 non-spending measures to the floor under open rules.
When their ability to influence other bills is limited, lawmakers channel their amendments to spending bills.
In some cases such as when, in 2015, a House member offered an amendment that would have allowed the Confederate flag in federal cemeteries such efforts can derail the appropriations process altogether.
Budgets are free from filibusters but not conflict Under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, neither budget resolutions nor reconciliation bills can be filibustered.
Filibusters have become extremely common in the contemporary Senate, so that few bills can pass unless backed by at least 60 Senators.
Since Senate majorities that large are rare, these measures become especially attractive vehicles for achieving partisan goals.
[Republicans are the party of ideological inconsistency] When theres no filibuster threat, Senate leaders have a harder time limiting senators ability to offer amendments to the budget resolution.
As a result, budget resolutions now regularly involve a vote-a-rama, a lengthy series of back-to-back votes that extends late into the night.
Senators have seen their chances to amend other bills become increasingly subject to complex, off-the-floor negotiations.
And so they take advantage of the budget rules by filing hundreds of largely symbolic amendments as a way of recording their own positions and forcing partisan opponents to state theirs.
Since the early 1980s, the Senate majority has, in some years, wanted to use the reconciliation rules to advance a filibuster-proof bill.
But before the majority can introduce a reconciliation bill, it has to adopt a budget resolution.
That can lead to even more conflict, since the majority is motivated to pass a budget by any means necessary.
Thats what happened in January when the new Republican Congress adopted a shell budget without specific policy details more than three months after the start of the fiscal year.
In adopting this bare bones budget, the majority laid the groundwork for a reconciliation bill that would repeal Obamacare and couldnt be filibustered, enabling passage without any Democratic votes.
(Of course, that failed when Republican Sens.
Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski and John McCain voted against it.)
While Republicans have abandoned ACA repeal, theyre using the reconciliation tactic again.
Using parameters set in the newly adopted budget resolution, they are hoping to rush through tax cuts in a filibuster-proof bill that would not require any Democratic votes.
The partisan environment doesnt help either One frequent criticism of the current budget process is that Congress has been loading up omnibus spending bills that cover many parts of the federal government rather than considering each subject-specific spending measure individually.
Work by political scientist Peter Hanson suggests that, in the Senate, parties have been relying on one or few large spending measures in response to broader partisan dynamics.
Unlike the budget resolution, spending bills can be filibustered.
This means some minority party support is needed, first to bring the bill up for debate and then for eventual passage.
When the Senate majority is small like Republicans current 52-seat coalition and when the parties are polarized, its harder to get this necessary cooperation.
Putting individual spending bills on the floor also forces senators to take politically difficult votes that potential opponents could highlight and challenge come the next election season.
To help their own members avoid such scrutiny and to reduce the number of times they need to attract minority votes, majority party leaders take the omnibus route instead.
The cohesion of the majority party or lack thereof also matters.
In recent years, one symptom of House Republicans internal divisions has been a bloc of members unwilling to vote for omnibus spending bills.
When that faction has been large enough that there were not enough Republican votes to pass the measures, Republican leaders have had to turn to Democrats for help keeping the government open.
The leverage this gives Democrats makes must-pass omnibus bills targets for other partisan fights as we see with an emerging conflict over immigration policy ahead of Congresss December deadline for passing its next spending bill.
[Watch out, Congress.
Tax reform could be just as hard as health care.]
Where do we go from here?
Without a functioning budget process, it is difficult for Congress to serve as a responsible steward of the nations resources.
When short-term spending bills are the norm because Congress cannot complete its work on time, federal agencies, uncertain about funding levels beyond the next few months, are unable to plan effectively for the long term.
Congresss operations are quite different today from when the Congressional Budget Act was adopted in 1974.
Theyre even more different than they were in the late 19th century, when the House and Senate first launched individual appropriations subcommittees that would specialize in crafting specific spending bills for separate floor consideration the same basic approach to which Congress unsuccessfully aspires today.
Scholars and practitioners with very different perspectives have suggested many options, from eliminating the opportunity to filibuster the motion to take up spending bills in the Senate to biennial budgeting.
But without changes in the partisan landscape, rule changes alone are unlikely to restore Congresss budgetary discipline.
Molly E. Reynolds is a fellow in the governance studies program at the Brookings Institution and author of Exceptions to the Rule: The Politics of Filibuster Limitations in the U.S. Senate (Brookings, 2017).
Find her on Twitter at @mollyereynolds.
Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), shown here on Capitol Hill on Oct. 17, is appearing as a character witness for Sen. Robert Menendez.
(Michael Reynolds/EPA-EFE/Rex/Shutterstock) U.S. Sen. Robert Menendezs defense team drew high-profile character witnesses from both sides of the Senate aisle on Thursday to testify about the New Jersey Democrats character and dedication as a public servant.
The eight-week-old public corruption trial of Menendez and co-defendant, Florida eye doctor Salomon Melgen, has been a somewhat dry affair focusing on the details of flight records, Caribbean port contracts, and Medicare billing policies.
That changed Thursday when fellow Sens.
Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), and Cory Booker (D-N.J.) took the stand.
The defense had also planned to call to the witness stand Marc E. Elias, the attorney who commissioned the now-famous dossier containing allegations about President Trumps connections to Russia and possible coordination between his campaign and the Kremlin.
Elias, who represented the Clinton campaign and many Democrats, is expected to discuss the practice of filling out Senate financial disclosure forms.
Omissions on such forms are the basis for three of the charges against Menendez.
Here's what you need to know as Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.)'s corruption trial progresses.
(Amber Phillips,Sarah Parnass/The Washington Post) But the trial judge, William Walls, said Thursday morning he would not allow Elias to testify, telling Menendezs lawyers: If you can prove something directly, then prove it.
Theres no need for a lawyer coming in and say what the practice is.
In response to the judges decision, defense lawyers said they would argue for a mistrial to be declared.
[Clinton campaign, DNC paid for research that led to Russia dossier] Menendez (D-N.J.) is facing bribery charges, accused of taking gifts from Melgen, a donor, that included trips on a private jet, a stay at a Paris hotel and campaign donations.
In exchange, prosecutors allege, Menendez sought to help Melgen on several fronts, from getting visas for the doctors girlfriends to trying to resolve a multimillion-dollar billing dispute with the U.S. government.
Menendez and Melgen say that they are longtime friends who enjoyed spending time together and that they were motivated by that friendship, not corruption.
Graham testified that hes known Menendez since their days in the House of Representatives and, later, while working together as members of the Gang of Eight, a bipartisan group of senators who tried to come up with comprehensive immigration reform.
The two often eat breakfast together in the Senate dining room, Graham said.
Citing the Iran nuclear agreement, which Menendez opposed, Graham called Menendez someone Republicans can go to if theyre looking for bipartisan support on an issue, adding that he and Menendez dont often agree on issues but that the New Jersey Democrat is a man of high character.
Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) will be the first Republican to appear for Menendez.
(Shawn Thew/EPA-EFE/Rex/Shutterstock) In very different circumstances, he always keeps his word, Graham said.
A handshake is all you need from Bob.
Hes a very honest and trustworthy senator.
Prosecutor Peter Koski asked Graham if he had been in the courtroom the past eight weeks for the testimony of other witnesses.
Graham replied that he had not, a response that Booker also gave later.
Booker, the former mayor of Newark, was effusive in his praise of Menendez and his efforts to fight for people of the inner-city.
Booker joked that when he first got to the Senate in 2013, Menendez helped show him the ropes.
Unsure of whether he needed to push a button or pull a lever to cast a Senate vote, Menendez told him he simply needed to say, Aye.
Since that time, their relationship has grown and flourished, Booker said.
He described Menendez as profoundly honorable and trustworthy, and a politician who understands from experience the struggles of working-class people.
Bob and I are in the thick of it together, Booker said.
Were partners.
Were in the struggle together.
I dont just observe him, I work with him.
Menendez is someone who when he gives you his word, you can take it to the bank, Booker said.
As character witnesses go, Booker could have cachet for the jurors.
He was the mayor of Newark, where the federal trial is being held, for about eight years before winning his Senate seat, and he is the first African American elected to statewide office in New Jersey.
The two sitting senators are the most powerful players deployed in the defense strategy of rebutting the charges by presenting Menendez as an honorable, honest person even if those witnesses dont have anything to say about the facts of the case.
Booker, a potential 2020 presidential aspirant, has been close to Menendez since winning his Senate seat four years ago and has remained steadfastly supportive of the indicted senator despite the trial.
My loyalty is to a guy that is fighting the good fight, Booker told The Washington Post on Wednesday.
My focus is supporting him as a guy thats trying to put up a strong defense, he added.
Booker has already made high-profile appearances in the courtroom, including the first day of the trial, when he was there as a guest and hugged Menendez.
Elias has advised Menendez for more than a decade as his campaign lawyer, a service he has long provided almost every Senate Democrat at his firm Perkins Coie.
He has also advised Majority PAC, the Democratic super PAC that was the recipient of a $700,000 check from Melgen that was earmarked toward Menendezs 2012 reelection and that prosecutors allege was part of the corrupt bargain.
As the first stories broke about the senators ties to the eye doctor, one central issue was how Menendezs trips on Melgens private jet were financed.
If Melgen was a longtime friend, the senator could have gone to the Ethics Committee and received a waiver on the prohibition against receiving pricey gifts.
That would have required the senator to disclose those gifts on his annual financial disclosure forms.
Prosecutors earlier showed internal deliberations among top Menendez advisers five years ago, and Menendez then paid more than $50,000 out of his own pocket for the flights which, they allege, showed Melgen was not a close personal friend.
Barrett and Kane reported from Washington.
Read more at PowerPost
President Trump waves to reporters as he departs for Texas to attend a briefing on hurricane relief efforts Oct. 25.
(Bill OLeary/The Washington Post) On Wednesday, President Trump was asked what he wanted the country to know about the failure of the mission in Niger that killed four Special Forces soldiers earlier this month.
Well, were going to look at it, Trump replied, saying that the soldiers were there to battle the Islamic State, a dangerous business.
Did he authorize this mission?
a reporter asked.
No, I didnt.
Not specifically, Trump said.
But I have generals that are great generals.
These are great fighters.
These are warriors.
So you gave them authority to do this mission?
another reporter asked.
I gave them authority to do whats right so that we win, Trump replied.
If that sounds a lot like a commander in chief hinting that he doesnt bear blame for the soldiers deaths, theres a good reason for that: Thats whats happening.
Again.
When a Navy SEAL was killed in Yemen earlier this year, the White House suggested that the plan had been drawn by the Obama administration in other words, that it wasnt Trumps fault.
The I alone can fix it candidate has evolved into the I didnt do it president.
And no group is more likely to be blamed by Trump for missteps or problems than Congress even members of Congress from his own party.
When Trumps promise to repeal and replace Obamacare collapsed, Trump blamed the House (for passing a mean bill) and the Senate (for not passing anything at all).
He was sitting there with his pen, ready to sign something, but never got anything to sign.
Who can blame him for that?
This strategy leverages the relationship that Trump fostered with his base over the course of 2016.
Bad news about Trump wasnt actually bad news, it was fake.
Also anything he said or did, Hillary Clinton had said or done something worse.
A system evolved, like an oyster forming a pearl: When something negative happened, supporters and sympathetic media quickly built up a shell around Trump to insulate him from its repercussions.
Layered on top of that was Trumps explicitly running against the Republican establishment embodied by Republicans on Capitol Hill.
Trump consistently polled better than Republican leaders in Congress among members of his own party, a reflection both of his rhetoric and his partys antipathy to its career politicians.
When Trump won, Congress got a boost in the eyes of Republicans, who apparently believed a new day was dawning in Washington.
As Gallup noted earlier this week, though, that affection rapidly faded.
We have a concrete example of how that can work to Trumps benefit.
New polling from Fox News released Wednesday addressed views of the Affordable Care Act (that is, Obamacare).
Most Americans generally view the law favorably, but three-quarters of Republicans have a strongly unfavorable view of it.
The Trump administration has taken concrete steps to undercut the law in the absence of being able to overhaul it.
That includes slashing funding for enrollment outreach, stopping participation in enrollment events and spurring premium increases by cutting off a reimbursement mechanism for insurers.
Polling from the Kaiser Family Foundation showed that most Americans believe that Trump and his party now own Obamacare and are responsible for its fate, suggesting that this strategy may not pay off over the long run.
But that Fox poll asked a more nuanced question, with more options.
If the health-care system falters, who is to blame?
Trump?
Republicans in Congress?
Obama?
The most common answer was Republicans in Congress, the pick of 3 in 10 respondents.
Only 2 in 10 blamed Trump.
But among Republicans the responses were even more lopsided: Only 5 percent of Republicans think Trump would be to blame if health care gets significantly worse.
Its fair to blame Congress for not passing legislation, certainly.
But consider who Republicans think should get the credit if health care improves.
About 3 in 10 think congressional Republicans get the credit for improvement but 40 percent think Trump does.
Heads, Trump wins.
Tails, Mitch McConnell loses.
Just among Republicans, anyway.
Interestingly, the exact same percentage of Americans overall 19 percent would blame Trump for a failure as give him credit for success.
The intent of the American system is that all parties work together to address problems, sharing the credit and blame to some extent between lawmakers and the executive.
Trumps Washington, though, operates differently.
The buck stops with him when its a good buck the bad bucks slip past his desk to someone else.
Its how he ran his campaign; its how he runs the country.
And, at least within his own party, it works.
THE PROGNOSIS President Trump waves to reporters on Wednesday.
(Photo by Bill O'Leary/The Washington Post) "It's complicated is a good way to characterize the Trump administration's approach to the Affordable Care Act.
Much ink has been spilled on how the Department of Health and Human Services is trying to undercut the ACA by rolling back marketing efforts, highlighting its premium hikes and cutting off extra subsidies for cost-sharing reductions (CSRs).
Former HHS secretary Tom Price publicly disparaged the law, as does Seema Verma, administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Republicans have spent seven years talking about the health-care law in such black-and-white terms that it's easy to view the federal agencies overseeing it as one big monolith.
Feeding this whole narrative, President Trump has recently become fond of proclaiming the law dead.
Just hours after his inauguration, he signed an executive order directing all the federal agencies to pare back Obamacare as much as possible within legal parameters.
The reality, however, is in shades of gray.
Yesterday, the government rolled out a window-shopping feature on Healthcare.gov, allowing consumers to view plan options and prices ahead of time (although they won't actually be able to sign up until Nov.
1.)
That feature, which was begun by the Obama administration but which HHS isn't required to offer, is a consumer-friendly move that won praise from even the administration's staunchest health-care critics.
For the first time since the Trump administration came into office you have seen a commitment to customer service that I didn't know they were going to have, Lori Lodes, former CMS communications director under Obama and spokeswoman for Get America Covered, told me.
From Lodes: Big shout out to @CMSGov for making this happen - it will really help people better understand their options for this year.
https://t.co/0ockU8L0Cp Lori Lodes (@loril) October 25, 2017 CMS outlined some more details yesterday about its approach to the sign-up period, which will run from Nov. 1 to Dec. 15.
Along with window-shopping, Healthcare.gov will continue to offer "waiting rooms" where shoppers can linger at high-traffic times when the website has reached its capacity.
And Healthcare.gov will present consumers with a new option in which they can choose to have an agent or broker in their area contact them directly for assistance.
This year CMS is taking a strategic and cost-effective approach to inform individuals about open enrollment, the agency said in a statement yesterday.
CMS continues to use consumer feedback to drive improvements.
There was also widespread speculation about whether the IRS would enforce the individual mandate for Americans to either buy coverage or pay a fine -- the least-popular part of the ACA and the most disparaged by Republicans.
But the agency recently indicated that it's cracking down, posting an online statement last week that it won't accept tax returns that fail to indicate whether the filer met the coverage requirements or qualified for an exemption.
The IRS under Obama had accepted tax returns without that information, although the agency had said that this year it would start returning forms that lacked the required details.
These actions reflect the fact that, despite Trump's top-line messaging about the ACA, multiple federal agencies with thousands of federal workers most of them career employees not political appointees all play a role in how the health-care law is implemented.
The ACA's text gives wide latitude to the federal branch, and there is not one central philosophy governing how it's being carried out in all its various facets.
There's even an example of how the president's decision to cut off CSRs might lead to an unexpected -- and positive -- outcome for lower-income consumers.
The loss of the payments is prompting insurers to hike premiums for mid-range "silver" coverage -- the type of plans consumers had to buy to get the cost-sharing discounts.
Higher silver plan premiums translate to more generous premium subsidies, since that's how the subsidies are calculated.
Shoppers between 133 and 400 percent of federal poverty can get their premiums partially subsidized.
From the New York Times's Margot Sanger-Katz: That is leading to a weird situation where gold plans are frequently cheaper than silvers.
https://t.co/4T8dtIFOkI Margot Sanger-Katz (@sangerkatz) October 25, 2017 From Business Insider's Josh Barro: Who knew sabotaging Obamacare could be so complicated?
CSR cutoffs weirdly getting people better plans at the same price.
https://t.co/WtSmQIk8hz Josh Barro (@jbarro) October 25, 2017 From Larry Levitt, senior vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation: Pay close attention to what subsidy eligible people pay.
In many cases, especially for bronze and gold plans, their premiums will go DOWN.
https://t.co/O8uCJ1AtNG Larry Levitt (@larry_levitt) October 25, 2017 But the higher premiums are sharply affecting people who don't qualify for subsidies: Health I nsurance is getting increasingly expensive for the 6.7 million people who buy their own coverage without a subsidy.
pic.twitter.com/FMkAKhCjMa Larry Levitt (@larry_levitt) October 25, 2017 TRUMP TEMPERATURE President Donald Trump.
(Photo by Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post) --Today, in an afternoon address from the White House, President Trump will order his health secretary to declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency but will stop short of declaring a more sweeping state of national emergency, Jenna Johnson reports.
The public health emergency designation means "the federal government will waive some regulations, give states more flexibility in how they use federal funds and expand the use of telemedicine treatment, according to senior administration officials who briefed reporters on Thursday morning ...
The last time that a national public health emergency of this scope was called was in 2009 in response to the H1N1 influenza virus.
The emergency will last 90 days but can be repeatedly renewed."
--Not even Trump's top substance abuse official knew the plans yesterday.
We dont have information about what the announcement will be, and so I cant comment on it.
I honestly dont know, Elinore McCance-Katz, assistant secretary of Health and Human Services for mental health and substance use, told Politico.
--Experts are concerned that more money won't be provided to fight opioid abuse, the AP reports.
Without a long term financial commitment, another declaration wont do much good, they warn.
"If there's no new money to expand our treatment infrastructure, I don't know what the punch is going to be," Andrew Kessler, a lobbyist who represents substance abuse treatment providers, told the AP.
"An emergency declaration without significant new funds will likely be unsuccessful, said Becky Salay, director of government relations at Trust for America's Health.
"The problem is enormous and requires a similar investment in a comprehensive strategy that includes primary prevention."
AHH, OOF and OUCH President Trump speaks during a meeting with the Republican Study Committee.
(EPA/MIKE THEILER / POOL) AHH: Of course, here's a not-so-positive side-effect of Trump and Republicans keeping the words "Obamacare repeal" constantly in headlines.
Nearly a fourth of Americans think the law has already been partially repealed.
And another 15 percent believe its been fully repealed, according to a new Morning Consult/Politico survey.
Forty-five percent of respondents correctly identified that Obamacare is still the law of the land.
Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.) acknowledged that his party prompted some confusion by making repeated promises it then didn't accomplish.
Weve been campaigning on it for seven years, Meadows told Morning Consult in a report about the poll results.
So I think some people believe that weve executed better than we have.
(iStock) OOF: We all know the health-care industry spends a hefty sum on lobbying -- more than any other industry in the United States, actually.
But you might not realize all of this lobbying can raise health-care costs.
Industry lobbying is closely tied to the political maneuvering that congressional leaders use in an effort to pass legislation, using targeted provisions known as earmarks or pork barrel spending, writes Dhruv Khullar for the New York Times.
"We all know earmarks and lobbying influence policymakers and policy.
In health care, this has critical implications: who gets care, how much they get, how we pay for it," Dhruv writes.
"But theres little hard data on exactly who benefits and how large the effects can be.
A new study illuminates the ways these political dynamics can change congressional and hospital behavior and how they can increase health care costs for the rest of us."
Dhruv explains research by professors from Yale and the University of Wisconsin-Madison, who looked at Section 508 waivers that determined the rate at which Medicare paid individual hospitals.
They found that hospitals in districts with GOP members of Congress who supported the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act (which authorized these waivers) were seven times more likely to receive a waiver, and those hospitals saw higher Medicare payments.
If you told me in advance that wed find this tight a link between Congress and hospitals, I would have been very surprised, Yale's Zack Cooper told the Times.
In the years between passage of the M.M.A., and its reauthorization in 2007, legislators in districts with a Section 508 hospital saw a 22 percent rise in total campaign contributions, and a 65 percent increase in donations from the health care sector specifically.
In the end, a provision that budgeted $900 million over three years led to billions in extra spending for nearly a decade, Dhruv writes.
Pork, it seems, is as bad for budgets as it is for waistlines.
A Homeless man sleeps along 14th Street in the East Village area of Downtown San Diego, California on Tuesday, September 26th.
(Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The Washington Post) OUCH: Californias exorbitant housing costs are driving the hepatitis A outbreak in cities along the coast as their homeless populations skyrocket, The Post's Scott Wilson reports.
"The hepatitis A outbreak in Los Angeles, Santa Cruz and San Diego, long considered a model of savvy urban redevelopment, is the extreme result of a booming state economy, now driving up home prices after years of government decisions that made low-cost housing more difficult to build," Scott writes.
Scott visited San Diego, a city where the economy is booming yet the homeless population has been rising sharply, outstripping the local governments ability to manage its scope.
"The number of people living on the streets rose 14 percent in the past year, tracing a hepatitis A outbreak that thrives in unsanitary conditions.
Health officials believe an epidemic that has infected more than 500 people statewide since March began in San Diego County, where 19 people have died as a result of the disease, nearly all of them homeless."
The outbreak led California Gov.
Jerry Brown (D) to declare a state of emergency this month.
Hepatitis, spread when a person ingests food or water tainted by the feces of someone who is infected, is a virus that stalks the unclean places where the poor often live.
It's extremely rare in the United States and rarely fatal when it does occur, causing symptoms such as fever, nausea and jaundice.
HEALTH ON THE HILL Sens.
Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.).
(Zach Gibson/Bloomberg) --The bipartisan bill to stabilize the ACA marketplaces, negotiated by Sens.
Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Patty Murray (D-Wash.), would slash the deficit by $3.8 billion over the next decade, the CBO announced on Wednesday.
The bill would also not affect the number of people with health insurance, our colleague Amy Goldstein reports.
This nonpartisan analysis shows that our bill provides savings and ensures that funding two years of cost-sharing payments will benefit taxpayers and low-income Americans, not insurance companies, Alexander and Murray said in a joint statement on Wednesday.
--The bill appears as necessary as ever, after a federal judge in California yesterday denied a request from 19 attorneys general across the country to force the Trump administration to resume funding of the CSR payments.
The ruling leaves intact Trumps decision earlier this month to immediately end the payments, which had prompted attorneys general from 18 states and the District to seek a temporary order that would have maintained the funding while the rest of the case is decided.
In his decision, Judge Vince Chhabria of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California wrote that resuming the payments to insurers would be counterproductive," Amy and Juliet Eilperin report.
Chhabria pointed out that most states insurance regulators had already prepared for a possible end to the money, by allowing companies to charge higher rates for the coming year.
Although you wouldnt know it from reading the states papers in this lawsuit, he wrote, the truth is that most state regulators have devised responses.
Yesterday, House Speaker Paul Ryan, made this candid confession: "I can't imagine' passing a health-care bill this year," he told Reuters: BRAIN WAVES ICYMI: Yesterday, The Health 202 kicked off our first live event.
Here are some of the highlights from our spirited discussion with Sens.
Bill Cassidy (R-La.)
and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) about the ACA marketplaces, repeal-replace efforts and mental health: On the Republican response to bipartisan efforts to fix the system: Murphy: I havent taken a look at the Hatch-Brady bill in detail but it looks to me a lot like the skinny repeal bill that didnt pass the Senate when it was first offered and would likely result in millions of people losing coverage.
We have 60 votes for Alexander-Murray in the Senate right now.
I dont see why we dont put that bill on the floor.
Cassidy: Even if we passed it in the Senate we would not pass it in the House and the president would not sign... an exercise in futility right now it seems better to kind of continue working through.
On the Mental Health Reform Act that the senators co-authored: Cassidy: Chris was great.
I had worked with Tim Murphy on the House side and Chris approached me and said can we work on this together and we didnt know each other that well but our staffs worked together We got something really significant through and it shows we can work on a bipartisan basis and again I thank my colleague.
On the cost of overhauling the system: Murphy: The fact of the matter is there has been nothing in any of the Republican plans that have been offered that truly attacks the issue of cost, the issue of price, the issue of price being passed down to consumers by an increasingly for-profit health care system.
Cassidy: Theres about five states in the nation that lost money under Graham-Cassidy, 19 states that substantially improve.
But those five states are incredibly high cost, at which point it becomes a philosophical argument: Should the federal taxpayer be obligated to support a high-cost state?
Watch the full discussion here: And here are a few more good reads: Lawmakers to DEA: Use more legal muscle against opioids House Energy and Commerce hearing touches on 2016 law that diminished agencys options.
Lenny Bernstein and Scott Higham MEDICAL MISSIVES FDAs Gottlieb calls for greater use of medication-assisted treatment to fight opioid epidemic The greater use of such therapies, which combine medication and counseling, could help people reduce their illegal drug use, he testified.
Laurie McGinley STATE SCAN Maryland will allow insurers to hike premiums after Trump ends subsidies Insurers no longer will receive compensation for discounts offered to low-income members Colby Itkowitz REPRODUCTIVE WARS Undocumented teen immigrant has the abortion she sought for weeks The Trump administration had blocked the procedure under new policy for minors in custody Maria Sacchetti and Ann E. Marimow DAYBOOK Coming Up The NIHCM Foundation hosts a briefing on Capitol Hill on Transforming Health Care to Drive Value on Friday.
SUGAR RUSH 'Enough is enough.
Congressman demands answers from DEA on opioid crisis: Senate Chaplain Barry Black calls for "more patriots who will stand for right regardless of consequences" during his morning prayer: Senate @Chaplain_Black: "Lord, provide us with more patriots who will stand for right regardless of consequences."
pic.twitter.com/OL4BMVD3T5 CSPAN (@cspan) October 25, 2017 On the Late Show with Stephen Colbert, Gretchen Carlson talks about using her experience to inform others about sexual harassment: On Late Night with Seth Meyers, Megyn Kelly explains why she spoke out about Bill O'Reilly's harassment:
THE LIGHTBULB Ryan Zinke, left, riding a swamp buggy in the Big Cypress National Preserve in October.
(AP Photo/Alan Diaz) Last week, Senate Republicans sparked an uproar from environmentalists and their Democratic allies after voting to raising revenue by drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in the northeast corner of Alaska.
Though pushed for years by Alaskas congressional delegation, tapping that land, set aside for caribou herds and other wildlife, is still not a sure thing.
The Senate, House and President Trump each need to agree to a budget proposal that sets up the prospect of a tax code rewrite.
Passing a revamp of the tax code is still a big if.
But to the west of the refuge along the states North Slope is another massive stretch of land with its own significant oil reserves.
Unlike with ANWR, the Trump administration already has the authority to begin leasing tracts of that land for oil and gas development.
On Wednesday, it began doing just that to the tune of 10.3 million acres.
The Bureau of Land Management, an office in the Interior Department, announced that in December it will sell off leases to 900 tracts of land in the nearly 23 million-acre National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska.
Currently, only about 1.4 million acres are leased for drilling.
Alaskas congressional delegation has long sought to open more federally owned land in Alaska to oil and gas drilling a big political winner in a state in which each citizen is cut an annual check from the proceeds of fossil-fuel revenue.
Interior runs agencies that collectively control more than 55 percent of Alaska's land.
I welcome the BLMs announcement today, Sen. Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska) said in a statement.
Exploration and development of the NPR-A offers a promising opportunity to fill TAPS, referring to the pipeline system running from the North Slope to the port of Valdez, where oil is shipped to refineries in the Lower 48 and elsewhere.
In 2012, the Obama administration began putting in place the first comprehensive plan to manage the NPR in Alaska.
Interiors plan allowed for new drilling on approximately more than half the reserve, and puts the other half off-limits to industry.
Ken Salazar, then Obama's interior secretary, speaking during a news conference in 2012 in Anchorage, Alaska to announce the Bureau of Land Management's plan for the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska.
(AP Photo/Mark Thiessen) The administrations decision puts up for sale all 900 tracts of land in that first half.
Environmental groups were generally supportive of the previous administrations plan, but worry the Trump administration is rushing to lease that land designated for drilling with the sale scheduled for Dec. 6.
Americans should not stand by and allow our public lands to be plundered without restraint, said Nicole Whittington-Evans, Alaska regional director for the Wilderness Society.
We need a thoughtful, careful approach that emphasizes responsible development and recognizes that some places are simply too special to drill.
And Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke is taking steps toward removing the protection for parts of the reserve currently off-limits.
In May, Zinke signed an order to review and possibly revise the former administrations land-management plan for the reserve.
Three months later, BLM invited the oil and gas industry to nominate new tracts for development that currently are not eligible for leasing.
Alaskan oil interests see filling up the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, or TAPS, as crucial for keeping the petroleum flowing.
If there's too little oil in pipeline, none of it moves.
In May, I put my hand on TAPS and pledged to help fill it by putting Alaskans back to work on the North Slope," Zinke said in the announcement.
Environmentalists counter that there is indeed enough oil in TAPS.
"Many in Alaska and elsewhere dont acknowledge that flow is increasing and that pipeline operations are fine because it counters their narrative that the state is desperate for more production in the Arctic," said Lois Epstein, and engineer and Arctic program director at The Wilderness Society.
The NPR-A news comes a day after another Interior agency, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, proposed leasing nearly 77 million acres in the Gulf of Mexico for offshore drilling.
This week, Interior issued a list of burdens to domestic energy production, which include many of the previous administrations rules already targeted for elimination.
The report responded to an executive order from Trump.
"This report is not particularly creative or surprising," said Kate Kelly, public lands director at the Center for American Progress, "it simply reads as a checklist of how to roll back any protections designed to protect people, land or water."
POWER PLAYS Carmen Yuln Cruz talks with journalists outside of the government center at the Roberto Clemente Coliseum days after Hurricane Maria.
(REUTERS/Carlos Barria) -- Cruz vs. Whitefish: Controversy continues to swirl around the tiny Montana-based company that received a contract to fix Puerto Ricos power grid.
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz called for ending the contract with Whitefish Energy, based in Inteior Secretary's Zinke's hometown, which she said raised ethical questions.
The contract should be voided right away, and a proper process which is clear, transparent, legal, moral and ethical should take place, Cruz told Yahoo News late Tuesday.
On Wednesday, Montanas Whitefish Energy fired back.
In a statement, the company said the mayors comments are misplaced.
And a Twitter back-and-forth ensued: You would think I am the only one in the world that has commented on this.
What is it about women having an opinion that irritates some?
pic.twitter.com/XxGNLomjQy Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) October 25, 2017 If @WhitefishEnergy feels that asking for transparency is misplaced, what are they afraid we will find.
Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) October 25, 2017 Weve got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived.
Do you want us to send them back or keep working?
Whitefish Energy (@WhitefishEnergy) October 25, 2017 @WhitefishEnergy implies that you will not treat the City of San Juan with the diligence it deserves.
Thus admitting political motivations.
Carmen Yuln Cruz (@CarmenYulinCruz) October 25, 2017 Realizing it may have taken the spat too far, Whitefish Energy apologized later Wednesday evening.
Now, Puerto Ricos financial oversight board intends to appoint an emergency manager amid the criticism of the contract.
The board said Wednesday it will name Noel Zamot, a retired Air Force colonel and member of the oversight panel, to oversee operations at PREPA, report The Post's Steven Mufson and Aaron C. Davis.
The politics: That decision comes as House and Senate Democrats including, crucially, Senate Energy and Natural Resouces Commitee Chairwoman Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) called for an investigation into the utilitys agreement with Whitefish.
Murkowski promised to examine the grid-rebuilding efforts at an upcoming hearing.
Zinke may yet regret trying to strong-arm Murkowski over health care this summer.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke (EPA/MICHAEL REYNOLDS) -- Climate change, scrubbed (again): A leaked draft of the Interior Departments strategic plan for the next five years sets out to achieve what the Trump administration has referred to as energy dominance.
The Nation, which obtained the copy, said theres a major concept missing from the draft: Not once does the 50-page document mention climate change or climate science.
Thats a clear departure from current policy: The previous plan, covering 201418, referred to climate change 46 times and explicitly stated that the department was committed to improving resilience in those communities most directly affected by global warming, The Nation notes.
Gary Cohn speaking at a policy summit in Washington in April.
(REUTERS/Yuri Gripas/File Photo) -- Hike to the gas tax may come to pass: Trumps economic adviser Gary Cohn told Republican and Democratic lawmakers that the administration may press for a increase to the gasoline tax to pay for infrastructure spending.
Cohn told legislators "they will have a chance to vote to hike the gas tax as part of an infrastructure package in early 2018," Politico reported.
Don't tell Trump: Given that a gas tax has some of the same emissions-reducing effects as a tax on carbon itself pushed for by many Democrats and some Republicans demanding action on climate change it's a rare Trump proposal that could win some non-negligible support from across the aisle (but for the tax hike part).
-- Nominees, approved: The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee voted to approve two controversial picks for roles within the Environmental Protection Agency.
The panel voted 11 to 10 to advance Michael Dourson to head the EPAs Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention and Bill Wehrum to be associate administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation.
Democrats concerned with the picks industry ties spoke against the nominees following the committees vote.
Sen. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.)
called the committees approval of the pair one of the low points of my entire career, while Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-Ill.) said Dourson was the absolute worst person I can think of to be in charge of chemical safety in this country.
-- Red team-blue team update: Conservative think tank Heartland Institute has submitted a list to the EPA identifying potential scientists for agency head Scott Pruitts planned red team-blue team exercise.
And the list, which both E&E News and HuffPost published, includes people who reject the mainstream scientific conclusion that humans are the primary drivers of climate change, E&E News reported.
E&E reports: Heartland Institute CEO Joseph Bast said in an email obtained by E&E News that the conservative think tank had recently sent a list of names of potential red team members to EPA for feedback.
Heartland has been working behind the scenes to develop a red team as some proponents of the idea have expressed skepticism that Pruitt would follow through on publicly debating climate change science."
-- Meanwhile, EPA chief Scott Pruitt reiterated his commitment to conducting the "red team" climate exercise in an interview with Bloomberg News.
Pruitt used the interview to push back on the accusation that he is in industry's pocket.
He vowed on Wednesday to go after corporate polluters and denied that he had close ties with companies, telling Bloomberg News: They dont know me.
We are going to do enforcement, to go after bad actors and go after polluters, Pruitt said in an interview with Bloomberg published Wednesday.
"I know what it means to prosecute people And weve got some of those folks across the country -- those people that are intentionally taking steps to pollute our water, to pollute our air."
One other quote: "I am here because I really feel called to it.
My desire each day is to bless the president and the decisions hes making."
Puerto Rico recovery: The state of the water supply in Puerto Rico may be worse than the official reporting.
The governments own website indicates that 75 percent of the island has water, but Vox reports that publicly available data and interviews with local officials tell a different story.
From Vox's the website's Alexia Fernndez Campbell: Only 15 out of 167 water treatment and distribution plants have regular power, and only 16 out of 2,186 water pumping stations are hooked to the power grid.
Without electricity, water distribution sites can't filter and pump water into homes.
Plus, the water company is telling residents the water out of the tap isnt safe to drink .
On its website, PREPA is urging those who have running water to boil it or purify it with chlorine tablets before drinking.
One step at a time: Tesla has installed a solar panel farm on the island to restore power to a children's hospital, Tesla chief executive Elon Musk posted on social media.
Musk called it "the first of many" similar projects.
Hospital del Nio (Childrens Hospital) is the first of many solar battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico.
Glad to help support the recovery.
Congrats to the Tesla team for working 24/7 to make this happen as fast as possible.
A post shared by Elon Musk (@elonmusk) on Oct 24, 2017 at 7:50pm PDT The future is too far off: Before they worry about a potential grid of the future, Puerto Ricans just want their electricity back, in whatever form possible.
Bloomberg News reports that energy experts are dismissing the possibility of any renewable energy, such as what has been suggested by Tesla's Musk, anytime soon.
You cant deploy and build the systems that Tesla is talking about, and these very sophisticated microgrids between now and December, and have them fully operational, Thomas Lewis, the U.S. regional president of Morristown, N.J.-based contractor Louis Berger told Bloomberg.
Just how far off?
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson estimated Wednesday at an event hosted by The Hill that rebuilding in the island would take between one and 100" years.
Rick Perrys anti-market plan to help coal The energy secretarys plan to subsidize coal and nuclear power would upend efforts to promote fair competition in electricity markets.
The New York Times THERMOMETER Houston Astros' Marwin Gonzalez celebrates his home run during the ninth inning of Game 2 of baseball's World Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers.
(AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill) -- Man, it's a hot one: Two locations in Southern California hit 108 degrees Tuesday, the hottest weather observed on record in the United States this late into the year.
In Los Angeles, where the Houston Astros met the Los Angeles Dodgers for Game 1 of the World Series, the first-pitch temperature was a scorching 103 degrees, setting a new record for a postseason game that was previously a 94-degree day in 2001.
The historic heat in Southern California, the most extreme witnessed in the United States so late in the calendar year, joins many other remarkable hot-weather milestones set around the country and the world, writes Capital Weather Gangs Jason Samenow.
It is not a stretch to say that, collectively, these are in-your-face examples of how climate change is shaping the weather.
And Houston, of course, faced Hurricane Harvey in September.
The Post's Philip Bump adds that the oppressive heat is "a little on-the-nose for 2017."
He charted out just how much of an outlier temperatures during this World Series have been.
Sea levels might be rising faster than we thought: From The Posts Chris Mooney: "Climate change could lead to sea level rises that are larger, and happen more rapidly, than previously thought, according to a trio of new studies that reflect mounting concerns about the stability of polar ice.
In one case, the research suggests that previous high end projections for sea level rise by the year 2100 a little over three feet could be too low, substituting numbers as high as six feet at the extreme if the world continues to burn large volumes of fossil fuels throughout the century.
For an endangered animal, a fire or hurricane can mean the end When a wildfire swept through Arizona, all but 35 rare red squirrels disappeared.
After Californias fires and Hurricanes Harvey, Maria and Irma, so did other near-extinct animals.
The New York Times DAYBOOK Today The American Gas Associations Natural Gas Roundtable luncheon is scheduled.
The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee holds a hearing to examine Cyber Technology and Energy Infrastructure.
The House Natural Resources Subcommittee on Water, Power and Oceans holds a legislative hearing on various bills.
EXTRA MILEAGE President Trump met with Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott (R) and other state officials to discuss recovery efforts in the wake of Hurricane Harvey: A bizarre insect in Indonesia goes viral: Meet Chi Chi, the quadriplegic dog who's Internet famous: NRATV responds to CNN's "This is an apple" ad:
President Trump.
(Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post) President Trump declared Thursday afternoon that the opioid crisis which is killing more than 100 people each day is a public health emergency.
Addressing it will require all of our effort, and it will require us to confront the crisis in all of its real complexity, Trump said during a speech in the East Room of the White House, where he was joined by first lady Melania Trump and New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie (R), chairman of a presidential commission on combating the crisis.
As Americans, we cannot allow this to continue, Trump said.
It is time to liberate our communities from the scourge.
We can be the generation that ends the opioid epidemic.
With Trump's declaration, the federal government will waive some regulations, give states more flexibility in how they use federal funds and expand the use of telemedicine treatment, according to senior administration officials who briefed reporters on Thursday morning.
[See how deadly street opioids like elephant tranquilizer have become] But the president stopped short of declaring a more sweeping national state of emergency that would have given states access to funding from the federal Disaster Relief Fund, just as they would be following a tornado or hurricane.
Officials who briefed reporters said that declaring that sort of emergency is not a good fit for a longtime crisis and did not offer authorities that the government doesn't already have.
The presidential memorandum signed by Trump on Thursday orders Eric Hargan, the acting secretary of health and human services, to declare a nationwide public health emergency and direct all federal agencies to use any emergency authorities that they have to reduce the number of opioid overdose deaths.
The last time that a national public health emergency of this scope was called was in 2009 in response to the H1N1 influenza virus.
The emergency will last 90 days but can be repeatedly renewed.
Trump spoke to an audience that the White House said included family members of those affected by the opioid crisis, along with an array of administration officials and elected leaders from around the country.
[Advocates hope Trump puts money behind words on opioid crisis] Officials repeatedly said they plan to roll out even more initiatives to address the crisis in the coming days and weeks.
They laid out a handful of things that will quickly happen by declaring the public health emergency: Patients in isolated areas such as Appalachia will have greater access to opioid treatment through telemedicine and receive prescriptions without seeing a doctor in person, as is generally required under current law.
The Department of Health and Human Services will speed up its hiring process to have people in place to help states in crisis.
The federal government will allow states to temporarily shift the use of federal grant funds to target those with opioid addictions.
The Department of Labor will make Dislocated Worker Grants available to those with opioid addictions and others who were dislocated by this health crisis or who have had trouble finding work because of their addiction.
The government will spend money from the Public Health Emergency Fund, although it has only $57,000 in it.
The officials said that the White House is working with Congress to find additional funding for this crisis which experts say will cost tens of billions of dollars to properly address but they declined to share any exact figures.
Leana Wen, health commissioner in Baltimore, which has been battling a stubborn opioid epidemic for years, said she is happy that Trumps announcement is drawing attention to the drug crisis.
But she pointed out that after hurricanes and other national disasters, billions of dollars in relief is quickly made available to victims.
The same thing should happen when it comes to stopping an epidemic, Wen said.
We should not have to depend on repurposed dollars that take away from other health priorities.
The money is needed to expand treatment for people with substance abuse disorders and to provide more of the antidote naloxone to first responders and the public, Wen said.
The city is currently paying $70 to $90 for a two-dose pack of naloxone, she said.
Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey (D) said Trumps action was woefully inadequate to address the challenges we face.
Our communities need federal funding and resources to fight this epidemic, she said.
Fire and police departments are struggling to afford overdose reversal drugs.
Schools and health centers need to expand prevention education to all students.
Families need expanded access to substance use treatment.
These are actions we can take right now.
And this announcement does little to support any of them.
John Wagner and Lenny Bernstein contributed to this report.
THE TICKER Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) talks to reporters following the House Republican Conference meeting this week.
(Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) There will be no cruise control on the road to a tax overhaul.
That much should be clear by now, but it was in fresh evidence Wednesday, as House Republican leaders scrambled to shore up support for a budget they hope to pass today.
The spending blueprint sets a critical precondition for the tax package by allowing congressional Republicans to approve a bill without Democratic support.
Yet a rebellion by GOP lawmakers from blue states over a proposal to scrap the federal write-off for state and local taxes threatened to derail the budget at the last moment.
At least four House Republicans on Wednesday said they would vote against the budget because it included language added in the Senate that refers to reducing federal deductions, such as the state and local tax deduction which disproportionately favors high-income individuals.
GOP leaders were set to meet with the Republicans from those states think New York, New Jersey, California and Illinois on Wednesday night in House Speaker Paul Ryans (R-Wis.) office to hash out a compromise.
Leaders ended up canceling the meeting a sign of their building confidence that the blue-state detractors wont sink the whole project before it launches.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.)
told me Wednesday evening that he intends to forge an agreement with them on the SALT deduction before the committee takes action, sooner if we can.
The plan by tax-writers, assuming a budget passes, has been to introduce bill text next week and mark it up the week after that.
Were going to take our time to get it right with those members, Brady added, because we want to see people keep more of their earnings regardless of where they live, including in high-tax states.
Thats really important.
Brady said he doesnt think the outcry from blue-state Republicans imperils the budget because this budget vote is about allowing pro-growth tax reform to occur.
It isn't the tax bill.
So we are at the table aggressively working, and Im confident well find a solution.
From my story with Mike DeBonis: There were signs Wednesday that the SALT deduction proponents might be splintering in their effort to force action before the budget vote.
Some of those who had threatened earlier in the week to vote against the budget absent a deal stepped back from those threats, and at least two New York Republicans, Reed and Rep. Chris Collins, said they would vote for the budget I believe there are Republicans who want to vote no who will vote yes if their vote is needed because we all know we have to get to tax reform, and theres only one way to get there, Collins said.
So with the urgency of that, I think we do get there.
By midmorning today, if all goes according to plan, they will be there.
And then and I realize Ive been saying this for a while now Republicans will finally have to confront the intensely painful trade-offs theyve largely forestalled all year as theyve circled a tax overhaul.
Or as Ryan (R-Wis.) put it Wednesday: Weve been going through Class 3 rapids, which is a pleasant ride.
Its nice, everybody pretty much stays in the boat, and its pretty good.
But were about to go through Class 5 rapids, which is the biggest rapids you can go through.
And weve got to make sure that everybody stays in the boat and we get the boat down the river.
Watch him here: One early obstacle: whether to cap workers tax-free contributions to their 401(k) plans and other retirement accounts.
To switch metaphors, Trump, who has steadily shoved the tax spinach off his plate, tried to dismiss the proposal via tweet this week.
But Brady and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) dusted it off Wednesday.
From Mike and Damian Paletta: The comments by Brady and Hatch show the immense pressure that congressional leaders are under to find new revenue to offset some of the sweeping tax cuts Trump has promised.
The Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan Washington think tank, has analyzed that Americans saved $67.2 billion in taxes by contributing to defined-contribution plans like 401(k) accounts in 2015.
Some Republicans believe they need to eliminate at least $400 billion a year in tax deductions and incentives to ensure that their tax plan can pass the Senate according to certain rules.
If Brady is going to offer some Republicans major concessions on the state and local tax debate, he could be forced to seek new revenue elsewhere, and the retirement accounts appear to be one target.
This comes down to arithmetic simple addition and subtraction but it certainly won't get easier.
MARKET MOVERS FED WATCH: The mark against Yellen.
Trump sounded high on keeping Janet Yellen in place atop the Fed in a Wednesday interview with Fox Business Networks Lou Dobbs.
But he also pointed to a strike against her: Hed like to appoint his own top central banker to leave his mark on the institution.
I tell you what, she was in my office three days ago, the president told Dobbs.
She was very impressive.
I liked her a lot.
I mean, its somebody that I am thinking about.
I would certainly think about it You like to make your own mark, which is maybe one of the things shes got a little bit against her.
But I think shes terrific.
We had a great talk.
And were obviously doing very well together, you look at the markets.
On his search and timing: So I really have it down to two and maybe three people.
And I think over the next very short period of time Ill be announcing it.
It wont be a big shock.
Treasury Steven Mnuchin and Director of the National Economic Council Gary Cohn walk after meeting with Republican law makers about tax reform.
(REUTERS/Joshua Roberts) Cohn out.
Trump has reportedly made it official that he won't tap his top economic adviser for the Fed job.
Bloomberg's Kevin Cirilli, Jennifer Jacobs, and Margaret Talev: "Trump has privately told people at least twice in the last week that he would not appoint Cohn as Fed chair, according to two people who met with him.
They asked not to be identified discussing private conversations with the president.
Trump has told advisers that Cohn is doing a great job in his current role and that he wants to keep him at the White House through congressional consideration of his proposed tax overhaul, according to a person familiar with the conversations... Cohn is likely to leave the White House soon after Congress disposes with the tax plan, two people said.
Cohn declined to comment."
Warsh vs. Quarles.
Bloomberg's Robert Schmidt: "The race to be the next Federal Reserve chairman is rekindling an old feud between Kevin Warsh, one of the Trump administrations finalists, and the newest Republican appointee to the Fed board, according to several people familiar with the matter.
Fed Governor Randal Quarles, who was sworn in this month as vice chairman of bank supervision, has told friends that he doesnt think Warsh is qualified to lead the worlds most powerful central bank, according to two former associates familiar with his comments.
Quarles, they added, is also concerned that Warsh would inject himself into regulatory policies that are meant to be the domain of the vice chairman."
With Wednesday's triple-point drop in the Dow, volatility and trading volume return Much of the market's movement follows 10-year yields rising on strong economic reports and rumors of John Taylor as the possible Fed chair.
CNBC Bond Funds Dump Puerto Rico Franklin Resources, one of Puerto Ricos largest creditors, sold hundreds of millions of dollars of the islands bonds in recent days, part of an exodus of investors hurt by accelerating losses in the wake of recent hurricanes.
WSJ MONEY ON THE HILL Former White House Chief Strategist Stephen K. Bannon.
(Reuters/Mary F. Calvert) Empire strikes back.
The Posts Dave Weigel, Michael Scherer and Bob Costa lead the paper: Allies of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell declared open warfare on Wednesday against Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and leader of an insurrection aimed at defeating mainstream Republican candidates in next years midterm elections.
More than a year ahead of the 2018 congressional contests, a super PAC aligned with McConnell (R-Ky.) revealed plans to attack Bannon personally as it works to protect GOP incumbents facing uphill primary fights.
The effort reflects the growing concern of Republican lawmakers over the rise of anti-establishment forces and comes amid escalating frustration over President Trumps conduct, which has prompted a handful of lawmakers to publicly criticize the president.
The McConnell-allied Senate Leadership Fund (SLF) will highlight Bannons hard-line populism and attempt to link him to white nationalism to discredit him and the candidates he will support.
It will also boost candidates with traditional GOP profiles and excoriate those tied to Bannon, with plans to spend millions and launch a heavy social media presence in some states."
Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.
(Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images) TAX FLY-AROUND: $1 Million bracket gains steam.
Axios' Jonathan Swan: "[Brady] has been telling allies that he doesn't like the idea of creating a fourth bracket but he's probably going to have to do it because Republicans are losing so much money from other concessions.
In a closed-door meeting with conservative leaders on Wednesday, Brady left himself some wiggle room.
He did not specify that the top rate would likely stay at 39.6% for income over $1 million a year...
The direction Brady gave them was there was likely to be a fourth bracket, though there could be a 1 or 2 percentage point cut to 37 or 38%.
One source familiar with the meeting described the move as 'symbolic'."
It's not entirely clear what the symbolic value would be creating a new top marginal rate for million-dollar earners if it still amounts to a cut.
On the contrary, it would seem to highlight a politically unhelpful point about the plan's benefits for the rich.
Trump waffles on 401(k)s. Reuters's Susan Cornwell: "Trump told reporters he wants to protect the popular tax-deferred savings program, but said it was possible it could be part of congressional negotiations over tax cuts.
'Maybe well use it as negotiating, but trust me ... there are certain kinds of deals you dont want to negotiate with,' Trump said on the White House South Lawn as he prepared to depart on a trip to Dallas."
Mnuchin struggles.
Politico's Nancy Cook: "Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is the de facto frontman for the administrations proposed overhaul of the U.S. tax system because of his extreme loyalty to President Donald Trump and the scores of tax policy experts and economists at his command.
But Mnuchin, a former investment banker and movie financier with no prior experience in Washington, hasnt been able to overcome Republicans suspicion about his Wall Street background and limited conservative credentials.
That may complicate White House efforts to influence debate as the details of a tax bill are written... 'We will defer to the administration on who they want to put out there on tax reform, but we see the president as the top salesman,' said a second House aide.
'Trump supporters will watch Trump selling this, and they will be swayed by Trump, not Steven Mnuchin.'"
Expat relief.
FT's Demetri Sevastopulo and Barney Jopson: "Millions of US citizens working overseas could see their tax bills lowered by an overhaul of the tax system as Republicans edge towards eliminating a requirement for American expatriates to pay taxes both overseas and in the US.
[Brady] said lawmakers were considering the measure, which has been the focus of lobbying by Republicans Overseas, a group of party donors around the world.
'It is under consideration.
They have made the case,' Mr Brady said."
Ivanka on the Hill.
The First Daughter was in the Capitol on Wednesday to promote an expanded Child Tax Credit.
From Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va): Productive conversation w/ @IvankaTrump today about increasing the Child Tax Credit & how this would help working families in #WV.
pic.twitter.com/tu5Pt6n2n2 Shelley Moore Capito (@SenCapito) October 25, 2017 Line of the day, via NYT's Jim Tankersley and Thomas Kaplan: "The prospect of a once-in-a-generation bill to cut taxes on businesses and individuals increasingly appears to be the best hope for a party anxious to find common ground and advance an effort that it has long championed as the pinnacle of Republican orthodoxy.
It is a bit like having a baby to save a failing marriage.
But, like a crying newborn, the drafting of the bill is already costing party leaders sleep."
TRUMP TRACKER Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.).
(Melina Mara/The Washington Post) RUSSIA WATCH: Judiciary split.
Politico's Elana Schor and Kyle Cheney: "The Senate Judiciary Committee's GOP chairman and top Democrat are splitting off in different directions when it comes to investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election, risking a collapse of their once bipartisan probe.
While Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) digs deeper into a uranium sale approved by Hillary Clinton's State Department that the House GOP is also investigating, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) is working on legislation that would make it illegal for Americans to accept help from foreign nationals to influence an election citing a meeting that Donald Trump Jr. held at Trump Tower in June 2016 with Kremlin allies as an example."
Dossie-what?
"Hillary Clinton and top officials of her presidential campaign were largely silent Wednesday in response to the revelation that the campaign and the Democratic National Committee had paid for research that resulted in a dossier alleging Russian interference on behalf of Donald Trump in the 2016 election," The Post's Tom Hamburger and Roz Helderman write.
"Neither Clinton nor her campaign manager, Robby Mook, responded to requests for comment Wednesday.
Campaign chair John Podesta declined to comment beyond referring reporters to a statement issued the previous day by the campaigns law firm saying officials had not been aware of the arrangement.
Brian Fallon, the former campaign spokesman, said he didnt know about the research at the time but called it 'money well spent' if it provided information useful to the special counsel now investigating Russias involvement."
Cohen sold four NYC buildings to mystery buyers.
McClatchy's Peter Stone and Greg Gordon: "Donald Trumps long time business lawyer Michael Cohen may be best known for his aggressive campaign television defenses of the real estate mogul, his role in an abortive effort to build a Trump Tower in Moscow and allegations that he attended a meeting last summer with Russians in Europe.
But while serving as a top executive at the Trump Organization for a decade, Cohen himself was a sometime New York real estate wheeler dealer whose companies appear to have netted as much as $20 million in profit by flipping properties to mysterious buyers.
The facts surrounding one of Cohens ventures in particular raised red flags for several experts interviewed by McClatchy.In 2014, a mysterious buyer using a limited liability company that hid the purchasers identity paid $10 million in cash for a small apartment building on New Yorks lower east side that Cohen had purchased just three years before for $2 million.
The handsome appreciation came despite the fact that the assessed value of the property, at 172 Rivington St., hardly budged in these years, hovering around the price Cohen paid for it."
Former Rep. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.).
(AP /Manuel Balce Ceneta) Ex-Im nom in extremis.
Former Rep. Scott Garretts (R-N.J.) nomination to head the Ex-Im Bank is still hanging by a thread.
And ahead of a make-or-break appearance before the Senate Banking Committee next week, the business lobby is stepping up its opposition.
From a Wednesday letter that National Association of Manufacturers president Jay Timmons sent Banking Chair Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) and ranking member Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio): Mr. Garrett is untrustworthy and unqualified to be the leader who strengthens and defends the Ex-Im Bank.
His confirmation would be catastrophic to U.S. exporters, manufacturing workers and families.
Timmons also wrote directly to Garrett on Tuesday, indicating the manufacturers' lobby thinks his nomination is beyond salvation.
From that letter: "It is too late to change your record or secure our trust with empty words about reform.
As such, we urge you to withdraw your nomination for the position of president and chair of the Ex-Im Bank.
Believe me, this request is not made lightly.
We certainly respect your right to seek employment.
But, quite frankly, we are more concerned about the manufacturing workers in our country who work hard every single day and whose jobs are dependent on a fully functioning Ex-Im Bank."
Kushner will take a diminished role on Trump's China trip The president's son-in-law and daughter are only set to join the first half of the Asia tour, while trade adviser and China expert Peter Navarro is expected to stay in Washington.
Politico POCKET CHANGE Is $100,000 middle class in America?
The majority of Americans 62 percent identify as middle class, but there's a lot of debate about what, exactly, that means.
Heather Long OPINIONS Repatriated earnings wont help American workersbut taxing those earnings can The fact that the these overseas profits are already invested in the U.S. is a primary reason why the last repatriation holiday in 2004 failed to increased investment or employment at participating firms.
Adam Looney via Brookings Lawrence Summers: What I do support in a new tax plan Attacking tax shelters, and four other ways Congress could pursue effective tax shelters.
Lawrence H. Summers THE REGULATORS Food and Drug Commissioner Scott Gottlieb.
(Reuters/Eduardo Munoz) Deregulation on the march.
Its been a good week for the Trump administrations campaign to roll back what they call the regulatory overreach of the Obama era.
Consider: The Senate killed a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau rule limiting mandatory arbitration; The FCC is gearing up to take significant steps easing media ownership rules next month.
WSJ: The plan by FCC Chairman Ajit Pai, a Republican, would eliminate or reduce several regulatory barriersincluding some from the 1970sthat limit ownership of multiple media outlets in the same market.
The White House is reviewing a Labor Department proposal to kill another Obama-era rule one that bans employers from pooling workers tips.
The Hill: The change would allow restaurants, for example, to share the tips waiters receive with untipped workers, such as cooks.
The National Restaurant Association has long been pushing for the change.
WSJ's Greg Ip argues innovation the likes of which Ajit Pai and FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb are unleashing by cutting red tape from their respective agencies could power more economic growth than tax cuts: "Its too early to gauge their success, but the efforts merit more attention at a time when the growth debate is focused on steep, deficit-financed tax cuts... [Gottlieb] wants the FDA to help drug developers narrow the information they must submit for preclinical trials, reducing the capital needed at the riskiest stage of development... At the FCC, Mr. Pai has targeted the 'digital divide,' the gap in broadband access between some communities, especially in rural areas, and others.
The share of U.S. households with a fixed broadband connection has stalled at roughly a third in recent years.
Mr. Pai thinks the solution is setting rules that maximize private investment in high-speed networks... Mr. Gottliebs and Mr. Pais theory is that if you lower the hurdles to innovation in specific sectors, youll get more of it.
It offers a potentially more tangible payoff than fiddling with the tax code."
U.S.
Targets Terrorist Financing With New Round of Sanctions The fresh round of sanctions was unveiled by Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, as he embarks on a four-country trip to the Middle East.
NYT CHART TOPPER From the Wall Street Journal's Dennis K. Berman: This is the single most important chart to understand about investing.
You cannot beat the market.
It beats you.
https://t.co/IvwowuPLAV pic.twitter.com/BVXSQJ3rKf Dennis K. Berman (@dkberman) October 25, 2017 DAYBOOK Today Cato Institute holds an event on renegotiating NAFTA.
Cato Institute holds an event featuring Grover Norquist titled, Home Stretch for Major Tax Reform?
The Senate Banking, Housing, & Urban Affairs Committee holds a nomination hearing for Brian D. Montgomery to be HUDs assistant secretary for Housing Federal Housing Commissioner, Robert Hunter Kurtz to be HUDs assistant secretary for Public and Indian Housing, and Suzanne Israel Tufts to be HUDs assistant secretary for Administration.
The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation holds a panel discussion about the policy debate around competition policy in innovation industries.
Coming Up Heritage Foundation holds an event on The Role of Investor-State Dispute Settlement Provisions in NAFTA on Friday.
THE FUNNIES From The Post's Tom Toles: "Breaking news from the GOP: This just out."
BULL SESSION President Trump on the 401(k) tax break: 'Maybe we'll use it as negotiating:' House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) says the GOP needs to ensure 'everybody stays in the boat' on tax reform: Ivanka Trump: Tax relief to middle-income Americans is a priority: On the Late Show with Stephen Colbert, Gretchen Carlson says she sees a cultural shift on sexual harassment: Megyn Kelly explains why she spoke out about Bill O'Reilly's harassment on Late Night with Seth Meyers:
Residents wait to receive food and water, provided by FEMA, in a neighborhood without central electricity or running water on Oct. 17 in San Ysidro, Puerto Rico.
(Getty Images) September was the most active month on record for Atlantic hurricanes, with Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria drenching East Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and many Caribbean nations.
Record rainfalls caused catastrophic damage.
Beyond the immediate physical damage and loss of life, disasters can also cause long-term damage to disaster survivors and communities.
As we learned from our study of a 2010 Pakistani monsoon, disasters can change victims attitudes in ways that will potentially haunt individuals, communities and local economies for decades to come.
Government relief can be an effective bulwark against some of this long-term damage.
Because research has found that the psychological impact of traumatic events transcends culture, these findings in Pakistan hold lessons for disaster victims in the United States and elsewhere.
Heres how we studied the effects of disasters and disaster relief The 2010 monsoon brought Pakistan the highest rainfall it had seen in 80 years, claiming the lives of nearly 2,000 people.
Twenty million others were affected, as the floods destroyed property and crops valued at approximately $1 billion.
[Puerto Ricos disaster is uniquely complex.
Trump is still falling short.]
In response to this national-scale disaster, Pakistans government launched the Citizens Damage Compensation, or Watan Card program, reportedly one of the largest post-disaster social protection programs ever implemented.
Between September 2010 and June 2011, 1.62 million flood victim families received 20,000 Pakistan rupees, or about $213 the first of three equal annual payments.
The per capita income in 2010 in Pakistan was $1,040, making that a significant boost to many.
We conducted a survey of 2,090 households across 76 villages in Pakistan in 2012 to probe how the 2010 monsoon floods and disaster relief affected the aspirations of victims whose homes or businesses were damaged or destroyed.
Nearly half of our study households resided in districts affected by Pakistans 2010 flooding, according to the United Nations designations.
An individuals aspiration level was estimated by using respondents answers to questions about their goals in four domains: income, wealth, education and social status.
Specifically, respondents were asked to report the level of personal income, the value of assets, the level of education and the level of social status they would like to achieve.
We examined each respondents aspiration level relative to the average aspiration level for those in the respondents districts, because people do not form their aspirations in a vacuum.
Goals are affected by comparing themselves to those around them.
Following previous studies, we measured disaster affectedness by estimating the extent to which the 2010 floods deviated from rainfall patterns over the last 30 years.
We then took advantage of the Pakistani governments uneven relief efforts to observe the aspirational impact of flood shocks conditional on receipt of government aid.
The Watan Card program only provided relief in villages with a majority of households affected.
This process created two groups of flood victims: those who received disaster relief payments and those who did not.
Relief helped disaster victims maintain their goals We found that aspirations make up an important dimension of citizens well-being.
Those with high aspirations tend to set ambitious goals for themselves, while those with low aspirations can fall into a poverty trap.
Low aspirations reveal themselves in fewer future-oriented investments and behaviors, which can, on a grand scale, inhibit economic growth.
The devastation significantly lowered victims aspirations.
The floods not only washed away homes and businesses; they also washed away victims goals for the future.
Even a year and a half after the floods, flood victims had lowered their aspirations (compared to those who experienced average rainfall) by an amount similar to that seen when households suddenly have 50 percent less income to spend on everyday household purchases.
And the poorest citizens were the most likely to give up on their hopes and goals.
[Puerto Ricos troubles are far from over.
Public health is at risk.]
Taking advantage of the uneven distribution of relief, we found that individuals from villages that received relief largely kept their previous goals.
Those from similarly affected villages that did not receive relief had severely lowered aspirations.
In other words, timely social protection not only restores livelihoods and replaces damaged assets, but can also ease mental burdens, raising aspirations for the future for a potentially long-term economic effect.
U.S. communities can expect similar effects from either disaster relief or a lack thereof Similar problems and questions are still swirling for Americans in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands whose homes were damaged by this years hurricanes.
President Trump signed a law sending a $15.3 billion aid package to Hurricane Harvey victims and asked Congress for a $4.9 billion loan to help Puerto Rico in its recovery.
Those legislative actions will have many financial and political consequences.
A cost-benefit analysis suggests that spending money on disaster relief may be a good national investment.
Lower aspirations tend to reduce business investments, education and other pursuits that on a large scale can contribute to lowering a countrys productivity and economic development.
Some U.S. political leaders seem to have reservations about providing disaster relief perhaps for fear that it might encourage recipients to become dependent rather than independent.
Trumps tweet that Puerto Ricans want everything to be done for them suggests that sentiment.
However, our research suggests the opposite.
Such programs boost aspirations and motivate recipients to consider investments that promise to bear high economic dividends.
[National flood insurance will help clean up after this hurricane season.
And thats a problem.]
To be sure, there may be other motives for not providing relief, such as a desire to motivate people to move out of disaster-prone areas.
While our research cannot speak to potential benefits of motivating people to move, it suggests that disaster victims aspirations should be included in such calculations.
Our study also suggests that having high aspirations is associated with political behaviors that express hope in the future, such as higher voter turnout, participation in civic organizations, and political knowledge.
When people endure natural disasters without aid, they may face a lifetime of diminished hope for prosperity.
Delivering disaster aid to victims quickly not only restores lost assets, but also maintains their aspirations and invests in communities longer-term economic and democratic health.
Katrina Kosec is a senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute.
Cecilia Hyunjung Mo is an assistant professor of political science at Vanderbilt University.
With Breanne Deppisch and Joanie Greve THE BIG IDEA: Republican leaders are trying to downplay the significance of Jeff Flakes retirement speech by insisting that the party is unified and that critiques of President Trump are entirely about his personality not his policies.
Asked about Flakes criticisms as he boarded Marine One for a trip to Texas yesterday afternoon, Trump responded that his meeting with Senate Republicans was a lovefest.
We have, actually, great unity in the Republican Party, the president said.
If you look at the Democrats with Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, that's a mess.
We're really unified on what we want to do.
Asked for reaction to what both Flake and Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) said about Trump, Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) told Fox News: This is more of, like, a People Magazine saga.
Sen. James Risch (R-Idaho) told CNN, These things are all personality-driven, and it's unfortunate that this leaked out over into the public.
Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) told MSNBC, If we were all to chase every squirrel that comes running along in the form of a personal dispute or a mischaracterization of someone's integrity or intent, we would be very busy doing that and not focusing on the government.
But thats not the case, and they all know it.
In fact, there are profound ideological differences within the Republican coalition that have become much more pronounced in the Trump era.
Flakes decision to not seek another term was as much about his refusal to abandon his core principles as his concern over Trumps fitness for office.
It is clear at this moment that a traditional conservative who believes in limited government and free markets, who is devoted to free trade, and who is pro-immigration, has a narrower and narrower path to nomination in the Republican party the party that for so long has defined itself by belief in those things, Flake said in his Tuesday speech on the Senate floor.
On the same day Flake bowed out, the Pew Research Center released a fascinating 152-page report on the nations political typology.
Based on in-depth interviews with more than 5,000 American adults, the nonpartisan group divided everyone across the political spectrum into eight groups, along with a ninth group of politically disengaged Bystanders.
(That is a giant sample, and the methodology is airtight.)
Pews typology studies, which it has conducted since the 1980s, are always a treat to read because they include a delicious trove of data to feast on.
But they are expensive to conduct, so the last one came out in 2014.
Thats only three years, but it feels like a generation ago: before Donald.
The report highlights fissures under the Republican big tent on a host of issues.
In many cases, the dividing lines are not necessarily new.
But several of the areas which Republicans are most torn about have moved to the front burner because of Trumps disruptive campaign and presidency, from trade to immigration and Americas role in the world.
-- Pew identifies four distinct GOP factions: Core Conservatives, about 15 percent of all registered voters, are what we think of as traditional Republicans.
They overwhelmingly support smaller government, lower corporate tax rates and believe the economic system is fundamentally fair.
Seven in 10 express a positive view of U.S. involvement in the global economy because it provides the U.S. with new markets and opportunities for growth.
You might call this group the Jeff Flake Republicans.
Flake grew up on a ranch that depended on the labor of undocumented immigrants, who he came to deeply respect as human beings.
He was a Mormon missionary in South Africa, which made him worldly.
As an ideological heir to Barry Goldwater and a devotee of Milton Friedman, hes a devoted free trader who has unabashedly embraced the globalist label to describe himself.
Country First Conservatives, a much smaller segment of the GOP base (7 percent of all registered voters), are older and less educated.
They feel the country is broken, blame immigrants for that and largely think the U.S. should withdraw from the world.
Nearly two-thirds agree with the statement that, If America is too open to people from all over the world, we risk losing our identity as a nation.
Market Skeptic Republicans (12 percent of registered voters), leery of big business and free trade, believe the system is rigged against them.
Just one-third of this group believes banks and other financial institutions have a positive effect on the way things are going in the country, and 94 percent say the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests.
Most of them want to raise corporate taxes, and only half believe GOP leaders care about the middle class.
They generally view immigrants negatively, theyre not too focused on foreign affairs and theyre less socially conservative than the first two groups.
New Era Enterprisers, the fourth group, are the opposite.
They account for about 11 percent of registered voters: Theyre younger, more diverse and more bullish about Americas future.
They support business and believe welcoming immigrants makes the country stronger.
-- Core Conservatives are the biggest faction in the party, but they have historically punched above their weight because people in this category are more engaged with politics, more likely to vote and more likely to keep up with current events.
(They also make up the lions share of the donor class, so politicians have another incentive to cater to their interests.)
This helps to explain why 9 in 10 Core Conservatives say the Republican Party represents their values very or somewhat well, compared to only 3 in 4 Country First Conservatives and 6 in 10 Market Skeptic Republicans.
-- Trumps core supporters tend to regard economic policy as a zero-sum game.
Many believe that others must lose for them to win.
Most Americans, however, believe that its possible to have economic policies that benefit everyone in the country.
Six in 10 Market Skeptic Republicans say that pretty much any economic policy will end up benefiting some at the expense of others, much higher than Core Conservatives.
Sen. Jeff Flake speaks to reporters after announcing he will not seek re-election.
(Win McNamee/Getty Images) -- Looking through the crosstabs, here were seven other questions that divided the subgroups in striking ways: Taxes: Two-thirds of Core Conservatives say there should be lower taxes both on large businesses and corporations.
On the other side, only 24 percent of Market Skeptic Republicans support lowering tax rates on high-earning households and a 55 percent majority says taxes on large businesses and corporations should be raised.
Health care: 88 percent of Core Conservatives say it is not the governments responsibility to make sure all Americans have health-care coverage, compared to 72 percent of Country First Conservatives and 57 percent of Market Skeptic Republicans.
But the New Era Enterprisers are split: 47 percent say it is the governments responsibility to ensure Americans have health care, while 50 percent say it is not.
Immigration: Three-quarters of Country First Conservatives say immigrants are a burden on the country, and two-thirds of that group say that the U.S. risks losing its identity as a nation if it is too open to people from around the world.
But 70 percent of New Era Enterprisers view immigrants as a strength and two-thirds of them say Americas openness is essential to who we are as a nation.
Role of government: Only 12 percent of Core Conservatives say that the GOP is too willing to cut government programs even when they have proven effective, compared to 36 percent of Country First Conservatives, 46 percent of New Era Enterprisers and 49 percent of Market Skeptic Republicans.
Americas role in the world: Overall, 47 percent of Americans agree that its best for the future of our country to be active in world affairs, but an identical percentage says we should pay less attention to problems overseas and concentrate on problems here at home.
Support for global engagement has spiked among Democrats since 2014.
While half of Core Conservatives say the U.S. should be active globally, 66 percent of Country First Conservatives and 72 percent of Market Skeptic Republicans say the U.S. should concentrate on problems at home and pay less attention to problems overseas.
Climate change: 7 in 10 Core Conservatives say there is no solid evidence of global warming.
Only half of Country First Conservatives say that.
On the other hand, two-thirds of both Market Skeptic Republicans and New Era Enterprisers say there is solid evidence of global warming.
Same-sex marriage: Nationally, 62 percent of Americans favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally while 32 percent still oppose same-sex marriage.
Three-quarters of Country First Conservatives oppose same-sex marriage.
But Core Conservatives are now closer to evenly divided 43 percent support and 49 percent oppose.
On the other side, 57 percent of Market Skeptic Republicans and 54 percent of New Era Enterprisers want to let gays and lesbians to marry legally.
-- Bigger picture: The center is not holding.
There is much less overlap in the political values of Republicans and Democrats than in the past.
In 2004, 49 percent of Americans took a roughly equal number of conservative and liberal positions on a scale based on 10 questions.
That was the same percentage as in 1994.
Then, three years ago, 38 percent had a mix of liberal and conservative views.
Now its dropped to 32 percent.
-- A good insight: Trump keeps talking about Hillary Clinton because its the best way to hold his coalition together.
Only about 4 in 10 Core Conservatives and Country First Conservatives say they agree with Trump on all or nearly all issues, compared to almost 6 in 10 Market Skeptic Republicans.
The New Era Enterprisers are split almost evenly: 47 percent say they agree with Trump on many or all issues, while 53 percent say that they agree with the president on few or almost no issues.
In every GOP faction, though, voters strongly dislike Clinton at about twice the rate that they strongly like Trump.
(Similarly, Democrats are held together right now by their near universal disdain for Trump.)
To appropriate a phrase from the late Rick James, reflexive partisanship is a helluva drug, Aaron Blake observes on The Fix.
And today's Republican Party is much more united on what it is against namely, the Democrats and the mainstream media than on what it's for.
Trump may not be great on their policies, and they may even think he's kind of a jerk, but he's with them on the most important thing: being not-the-other-side.
It's arguably his most pronounced quality.
And in an increasingly polarized country, it's what really matters.
-- Read the full report here.
-- Take Pews online quiz to see where you would fall on their political typology.
Welcome to the Daily 202, PowerPost's morning briefing for decision-makers.
Sign up to receive the newsletter.
WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING: George H.W.
Bush and the cast of AMC's new series Turn attend a private screening in 2014.
(Aaron M. Sprecher/Invision for AMC/AP) -- George H.W.
Bush issued a second apology Wednesday evening to actress Heather Lind, who accused him of groping her as they posed for a photo several years ago.
At age 93, President Bush has been confined to a wheelchair for roughly five years, so his arm falls on the lower waist of people with whom he takes pictures, a spokesman for the former president said.
To try to put people at ease, the president routinely tells the same joke and on occasion, he has patted womens rears in what he intended to be a good-natured manner.
Some have seen it as innocent; others clearly view it as inappropriate.
To anyone he has offended, President Bush apologizes most sincerely.
Another woman has also come forward alleging a very similar story about Bush.
Kristine Phillips and Eli Rosenberg report: Jordana Grolnick told Deadspin that she was working on a production of The Hunchback of Notre Dame in Maine in August 2016, near the Bush family compound in Kennebunkport, when Bush came backstage during intermission and grabbed her as they posed for a picture.
He reached his right hand around to my behind, and as we smiled for the photo he asked the group, Do you want to know who my favorite magician is?
As I felt his hand dig into my flesh, he said, David Cop-a-Feel!
Grolnick said.
[Grolnick] said she had been warned by other actors not to stand next to Bush.
Mark Halperin attends the world premiere of Knife Fight during the 2012 Tribeca Film Festival in New York.
(Evan Agostini/AP) -- Mark Halperin was accused of sexual harassment by five women.
CNNs Oliver Darcy reports: During this period, I did pursue relationships with women that I worked with, including some junior to me, Halperin said in a statement to CNN Wednesday night.
I now understand from these accounts that my behavior was inappropriate and caused others pain.
For that, I am deeply sorry and I apologize.
Under the circumstances, I'm going to take a step back from my day-to-day work while I properly deal with this situation.
The stories of harassment shared with CNN range in nature from propositioning employees for sex to kissing and grabbing one's breasts against her will.
Three of the women who spoke to CNN described Halperin as, without consent, pressing an erection against their bodies while he was clothed.
Halperin denies grabbing a woman's breasts and pressing his genitals against the three women.
-- The New Republic continues to grapple with allegations against former editor Leon Wieseltier.
HuffPosts Jason Cherkis reports: I accept I was blind and complicit and just, like, did nothing, one former top New Republic editor told HuffPost.
But he added that there were men and women in the office who did not know what was going on.
It was kind of a collective failure.
This sits heavily on me.
In part, Wieseltiers behavior went unchecked because there was no one in place to check it or at least willing to.
The New Republic had no human resources office where employees could safely lodge complaints about Wieseltier.
It also didnt have a clear organizational structure; it wasnt always clear whom Wieseltier reported to or if he reported to anyone.
-- Bill OReilly is in talks for a position at Sinclair Broadcasting Group, despite sexual harassment claims that cost him his job at Fox News and new revelations that he settled a $32 million sexual harassment claim while at the network.
(NBC News).
Houston Astros' Marwin Gonzalez celebrates his home run during the ninth inning of Game 2 of the World Series.
(Mark J. Terrill/AP) -- The Astros won Game 2 of the World Series in 11 innings.
Dave Sheinin reports: Game 2 of the World Series was already more than four hours old and about six degrees of bonkers when George Springer came to the plate in the top of the 11th inning at Dodger Stadium.
Already, the Los Angeles Dodgers and Houston Astros had, by all natural rights, won the game and lost the game a couple of times apiece.
But there was still one thing missing from a game that, by that point, had everything else: an outcome.
And when Springer, the Astros leadoff man, smashed a two-run homer with no outs in the 11th off Dodgers right-hander Brandon McCarthy the ninth Dodgers pitcher of the night it finally had that as well.
Protesters gather in support of Jane Doe to have an abortion.
(Michael S. Williamson/The Washington Post) GET SMART FAST: An undocumented immigrant teen received an abortion on Wednesday putting an end to a weeks-long court battle with the federal government over whether the 17-year-old, who is being held in federal custody, should be allowed to move forward with the procedure.
(Ann E. Marimow and Maria Sacchetti) Trumps personal lawyer Michael Cohen was found to have sold real estate to mysterious buyers for a profit of up to $20 million.
Experts said that the transactions, which occurred in 2014, could merit a review by federal investigators.
(McClatchy) Nikki Haley was evacuated from South Sudan.
The U.N. ambassador was visiting a camp for displaced people in the country when a demonstration broke out against President Salva Kiir.
(Politico) Joe Biden said he would have run for president in 2016 had his son Beau not been stricken by cancer.
No question, the former vice president told Vanity Fair.
I had planned on running[.]
Honest to God, I thought that I was the best suited for the moment to be president.
Texas House Speaker Joe Straus (R) said Wednesday he won't seek reelection in 2018 in an announcement that came as a blow to moderate Republicans and set off an immediate scramble for his replacement.
In a statement, Straus said he will continue to work for a Republican Party that tries to bring Texans together instead of pulling us apart.
(Texas Tribune) The NAACP issued a travel advisory for African Americans flying on American Airlines, citing a pattern of disturbing incidents after four black passengers were reportedly forced to give up their seats or removed from flights.
The advisory said the incidents suggest a corporate culture of racial insensitivity and possible racial bias.
(CNNMoney) An estranged brother of Las Vegas gunman Stephen Paddock was arrested on child pornography charges.
Authorities said the 58-year-old was detained at a Los Angeles assisted-living facility Wednesday in an investigation predating the massacre.
He faces 19 counts of sexual exploitation of a child and one count of possession of child pornography.
(NBC News) The DOJ reached settlements with tea-party groups alleging discrimination in the determination of their tax-exempt status.
In one agreement, the IRS acknowledged that its practices were wrong and offered a sincere apology in the controversy that plagued the Obama administration.
(Matt Zapotosky) A new report shows a dark picture of North Koreas re-education camps.
The camps, while less severe than those meant for political prisoners, force people to perform hard labor in near-starvation conditions.
The crimes that can land people in the camps include making too much money in the markets and attempting to flee the country.
(Anna Fifield) Jeff Glor was named the new anchor of CBS Evening News.
The 42-year-old Emmy-award winning journalist has been with the network for 10 years.
(CBS News) Boogie-woogie pianist Fats Domino, who helped launch rock-and-roll, died at 89.
Dominos record sales were rivaled only by Elvis Presley in the early days of rock.
(Terence McArdle) California cities are experiencing a hepatitis A outbreak at homeless encampments.
The homeless population in cities like San Diego has been on the rise as housing prices in the state continue to soar.
(Scott Wilson) A federal panel recommended a new shingles vaccine on Wednesday voting 8 to 7 to formally support a remedy found to be more effective in treating the painful rash in people ages 50 and older.
(Lena H. Sun) Kevin Brady looks on as Steven Mnuchin takes questions from lawmakers concerning Trump's budget.
(Melina Mara/The Washington Post) TAXES ON CENTER STAGE: -- House leaders made a frantic attempt last night to prevent their plans to overhaul the tax code from being thwarted.
The House is slated to vote on a budget measure today that sets up the process for considering the tax legislation, but several GOP lawmakers have balked at plans to eliminate the state and local tax deduction known as SALT.
Mike DeBonis and Tory Newmyer have the latest: At least four GOP lawmakers from high-tax states said Tuesday that they intended to vote against the budget unless a deal is in place to at least partially preserve the state- and local-tax deduction, also known as 'SALT' .
.
.
All were dismayed by language included in the latest version of the budget that refers to 'reducing federal deductions, such as the state and local tax deduction which disproportionately favors high-income individuals.'
They argue that many middle-class households in high-cost-of-living areas take advantage of the deduction.
Ways and Means Chair Kevin Brady (Tex.)
nonetheless said he was confident the budget measure would pass because this budget vote is about allowing pro-growth tax reform to occur.
It isnt the tax bill.
-- But there are other signs of discord among Republicans and President Trump.
Two days after Trump rebutted him, Brady suggested that the GOP plan could force changes to 401(k) retirement plans.
Damian Paletta and Mike DeBonis report: Brady .
.
.
said he was working very closely with the president on the issue.
He added that many people who have tax-incentivized retirement accounts contribute $200 per month or less, a level he thought was too low.
We think we can do better, Brady said.
We are continuing discussions with the president, all focused on saving more and saving sooner.
Several hours later, Senate Finance Committee Chairman [Orrin Hatch] also said he would oppose Trumps vow to protect 401(k) plans but that he was open to changes if they made sense.
Im open to look at anything, Hatch said[.]
-- In openly flouting Trumps promise, GOP lawmakers are essentially calling Trump's bluff that what he says he wants on policy is what he means, Amber Phillip writes.
And it underscores how little political capital Trump has on Capitol Hill right now[:] Ten months in, Trump has no working relationship with Congress and no reputation as a trustworthy dealmaker.
He has taken little to no interest in policy .
.
.
This spring and summer, he largely outsourced Obamacare repeal to the Hill, created a bunch of distracting self-inflicted controversies, then publicly bashed his own party for falling short by one vote in the Senate.
He switches his positions on basic issues as often as Katy Perry changes costumes in a show.
-- House Republicans are also toying with the idea of creating a fourth tax bracket for those who make more than $1 million a year.
Axioss Jonathan Swan reports: Brady has been telling allies that he doesn't like the idea of creating a fourth bracket but he's probably going to have to do it because Republicans are losing so much money from other concessions.
In a closed-door meeting with conservative leaders on Wednesday [Brady] did not specify that the top rate would likely stay at 39.6% for income over $1 million a year[.]
The direction Brady gave them was there was likely to be a fourth bracket, though there could be a 1 or 2 percentage point cut to 37 or 38%.
One source familiar with the meeting described the move as symbolic.
-- The stakes are very high: The prospect of a once-in-a-generation bill to cut taxes on businesses and individuals increasingly appears to be the best hope for a party anxious to find common ground and advance an effort that it has long championed as the pinnacle of Republican orthodoxy, New York Timess Jim Tankersley and Thomas Kaplan write.
It is a bit like having a baby to save a failing marriage.
But, like a crying newborn, the drafting of the bill is already costing party leaders sleep.
The Republicans are finally figuring out if they dont pass this, the political consequences are going to be catastrophic, said Stephen Moore, a senior fellow at the Heritage Foundation The attitude of the conservative base is, If they dont do this, theyre worthless.
-- But rhetoric around the bill supposedly designed to benefit the middle class has given rise to an important question who IS the middle class?
In America, an income of $59,000 a year (before tax) is smack dab in the middle, according to the U.S. Census.
But it's not that simple, Heather Long writes.
In Beattyville, Ky., a place dubbed America's poorest white town, median income is only $16,000 and a typical home costs only $53,000.
On the other end of the spectrum are rapidly developing cities such as the San Francisco area[:] The median income is a whopping $136,000 in Palo Alto, the hub of Silicon Valley.
Even engineers at Facebook have been struggling to pay their rent.
America's vast differences in pay and costs make creating a once-size-fits-all tax policy tricky.
One of the biggest dilemmas Republicans face as they work on the tax bill is where to draw the tax bracket lines for people of different incomes [and] GOP leaders are still working out where to set the rates, and at what income level those rates will kick in.
-- Gary Cohn is reportedly no longer under consideration to become the next Fed chair.
Bloombergs Kevin Cirilli, Jennifer Jacobs and Margaret Talev report: Trump has told advisers that Cohn is doing a great job in his current role and that he wants to keep him at the White House through congressional consideration of his proposed tax overhaul[.]
No decision has been made and no candidate has been ruled out but Garys role is too crucial to getting tax reform done, a senior administration official familiar with the presidents thinking said.
It may be too important for him to continue to be the lead, for him to announce a change at this time.
Cohn is likely to leave the White House soon after Congress disposes with the tax plan, two people said.
-- The Koch-backed Freedom Partners launched a $1.6 million ad campaign against Sen. Tammy Baldwin (D-Wis.) accusing her of rigging the [tax] system against us.
HEALTH CARE, NOT SO MUCH: -- In his speech on the opioid crisis today, Trump is expected to stop short of declaring a national emergency.
USA Todays Gregory Korte reports: Trump will order his health secretary to declare the opioid crisis a public health emergency Thursday[.]
[T]here's a legal distinction between a public health emergency, which the secretary of Health can declare under the Public Health Services Act, and a presidential emergency under the National Emergencies Act.
The latter is what the president's own opioid commission recommended in July.
[T]he legal powers Trump is invoking were designed for a short-term emergencies like disasters and infectious diseases.
-- A federal judge in California refused to order the Trump administration to resume paying subsidies for low-income people under the Affordable Care Act.
Amy Goldstein and Juliet Eilperin report: The ruling leaves intact [Trumps] decision to immediately end the payments that reimburse insurers for discounts the law requires them to give lower-income customers with health plans through ACA marketplaces.
The attorneys general, from 18 states and the District, were seeking a temporary order that would have maintained the funding while the rest of the case is decided.
[Judge Vince Chhabria] pointed out that most states insurance regulators had already prepared for a possible end to the money, by allowing companies to charge higher rates for the coming year.
The judge did not decide the suits core question: whether the federal government must continue funding the cost-sharing reduction (CSR) payments without a specific congressional appropriation.
-- Meanwhile, the CBO released a report showing the bipartisan Alexander-Murray bill to shore up the ACA exchanges would save nearly $4 billion over the next decade.
Juliet and Amy write: The proposal would not affect the number of people with health insurance.
The assessment of the plan forecasts no fiscal effect from one of its main features: resuming for two years the cost-sharing payments Trump has stopped.
That central aspect of the bill would not itself affect the deficit, the nonpartisan budget analysts conclude, because the CBO had been assuming those payments would continue.
But the analysts still predict the relatively small savings because health insurers that raised their prices for the coming year to compensate for the funding loss would then need to give the government some kind of rebate for charging too much.
-- BUT: Paul Ryan pretty much ended hope that the House would consider the deal this year.
Reuterss Richard Cowan and Doina Chiacu report: Asked whether the seven-year Republican effort to repeal and replace Obamacare was now dead, Ryan responded, No.
But he added, I cant imagine we can do that this year.
Ryan said he favored a more conservative short-term Obamacare fix offered by leading Republicans in the House and Senate.
It includes provisions to suspend requirements for individuals and employers to obtain health coverage under Obamacare.
-- Maryland announced it would allow two insurers to substantially raise Obamacare premiums in response to the end of the subsidies.
(Colby Itkowitz) -- Progressive Democrats are pushing legislation that would allow people to buy into a public option for Medicaid.
David Weigel reports: The State Public Option Act, sponsored by Sen. Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) in the Senate and Rep. Ben Ray Lujn (D-N.M.) in the House, would expand Medicaid from a program available only to Americans at or slightly above the poverty level, to a universal program anyone could buy into.
Already, 18 Democrats in the Senate have co-sponsored the bill, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).
THERES A BEAR IN THE WOODS: -- The head of Cambridge Analytica a data-analytics firm that worked for Trumps campaign said in an email last year that he reached out to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange for help finding Hillary Clintons missing emails.
The Daily Beasts Betsy Woodruff reports: [Alexander] Nix, who heads Cambridge Analytica, told a third party that he reached out to Assange about his firm somehow helping the WikiLeaks editor release Clintons missing emails Those sources also relayed that, according to Nixs email, Assange told the Cambridge Analytica CEO that he didnt want his help, and preferred to do the work on his own.
If the claims Nix made in that email are true, this would be the closest known connection between Trumps campaign and Assange.
Assange later told the Daily Beast in a statement: We can confirm an approach by Cambridge Analytica and can confirm that it was rejected by WikiLeaks.
-- Trump on Wednesday called the infamous dossier alleging ties between him and the Russian government a disgrace to Democrats.
Politicos Nolan D. McCaskill reports: I understand they paid a tremendous amount of money, Trump told reporters And Hillary Clinton always denied it.
The Democrats always denied it.
And now, only because its gonna come out in a court case, they said yes, they did it.
They admitted it, and theyre embarrassed by it.
But I think its a disgrace.
Its a very sad commentary on politics in this country."
He also hinted he knows the identity of the Republican who helped fund the opposition research during the GOP primary: If I were to guess, I have one name in mind, Trump said.
Itll probably be revealed.
Id rather not say, but youll be surprised.
Youll be surprised.
-- Hillary Clinton and top officials from her presidential campaign were largely silent yesterday about the revelations that the DNC and her campaign paid for research resulting in the dossier.
Tom Hamburger and Rosalind S. Helderman report: Neither Clinton nor her campaign manager, Robby Mook, responded to requests for comment Wednesday.
Campaign chair John Podesta declined to comment beyond referring reporters to a statement issued the previous day by the campaigns law firm saying officials had not been aware of the arrangement.
Brian Fallon, the former campaign spokesman, said he didnt know about the research at the time but called it money well spent if it provided information useful to the special counsel now investigating Russias involvement.
-- Meanwhile, the Senate Judiciary Committees bipartisan Russia probe has splintered, with top lawmakers on the panel, Sens.
Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), each agreeing to launch separate inquiries.
Bloombergs Steven T. Dennis reports: The two senators spoke on the Senate floor Tuesday, where they agreed to pursue different issues without giving up on the original probe into the reasons [Trump] fired [James Comey] and Russian attempts to interfere in the election.
Feinstein of California said she doesnt understand a push by Republicans to once again investigate Hillary Clintons emails or pursue a 2010 Obama-era deal by a Russian-backed company to purchase American uranium mines.
Grassley spokesman Taylor Foy said Wednesday that the chairman will continue his broad focus on multiple administrations, even if the ranking member is only willing to focus on [Trump] and unwilling to examine the role of the DNC and Clinton campaign Their remarks signal a significant rupture to what has been a bipartisan probe[.]
-- A study set to be published today demonstrates how embeds from Facebook, Twitter and Google played a crucial role in the Trump campaigns success.
Politicos Nancy Scola reports: While the companies call it standard practice to work hand-in-hand with high-spending advertisers like political campaigns, the new research details how the staffers assigned to the 2016 candidates frequently acted more like political operatives, doing things like suggesting methods to target difficult-to-reach voters online, helping to tee up responses to likely lines of attack during debates, and scanning candidate calendars to recommend ad pushes around upcoming speeches.
-- Senate investigators are gathering documents from the estate of GOP operative Peter Smith, who reportedly acknowledged before his death in May that he had led an effort to obtain Clintons missing emails from Russian hackers.
ABC Newss Matthew Mosk and Brian Ross report: [Ten days before his death, Smith] told a reporter from the Wall Street Journal that he had led a robust bid during the early months of the 2016 presidential contest to find what he thought were hacked copies of Clintons emails in hopes of using them against her during the campaign.
Of interest to investigators are documents and electronic communications that could help determine whether Smith worked in concert with anyone from the campaign of then-candidate [Trump].
President Trump speaks to reporters on the South Lawn of the White House.
(Andrew Harnik/AP) THE NEW WORLD ORDER: -- The Pentagon deployed elite commandos in response to the deadly ambush of U.S. Special Forces in Niger earlier this month, fearing that militants were hunting Sgt.
La David Johnson, who was missing at the time.
Dan Lamothe and Karen DeYoung report: The commandos, with the secretive Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), were deployed late on Oct. 4 [two days before the body of Sgt.
La David Johnson was found].
Johnsons separation triggered declaration of what the military calls a DUSTWUN, which stands for duty status whereabouts unknown, the officials said.
Declaration of that status typically leads to an intense search for a missing service member.
-- White House officials initially thought that several American troops might be missing following the ambush.
Greg Jaffe and Karen DeYoung report: The White House did not officially receive word that three American bodies had been recovered, and that one soldier remained missing, until at least eight hours after the attack had begun[.]
The confusion and delays in receiving and transmitting information between field commanders, through the U.S. Africa Command in Germany, to the Pentagon and then to the White House underscores the chaotic nature of the firefight .
.
.
In this case, the lack of firm information over so long a period was especially striking to those on the receiving end.
My whole life, Ive never seen something like that happen, [a] senior official said[.]
I was dumbfounded by it.
-- The Trump administration is paving the way for use of armed drones and lethal force in Niger, NBC News reports: France has already decided to arm its drones in the region, U.S. documents show, and the move to arm U.S. Reapers has been under consideration for some time long before this month's ambush of a Green Beret unit that resulted in the deaths of four American soldiers.
[But] in the wake of the attack, the U.S. has been pressing the government of Niger to allow armed drones at the U.S. bases in that country, three U.S. officials said.
A move to expand U.S. drone strikes to Niger would amount to a significant escalation in American counterterrorism operations.
-- Meanwhile, Trump undercut Gold Star widow Myeshia Johnson again on Wednesday, disputing her claim that he didn't remember her husbands name when he called her last week.
Ashley Parker reports: Speaking to reporters on the South Lawn of the White House Trump said he called Army Sgt.
La David Johnson [by] his correct name right from the beginning.
One of the great memories of all time, the president said, pointing at his head with his left hand.
Theres no hesitation.
[He continued]: Just so you understand, they put a chart in front La David, it says La David Johnson.
So I called right from the beginning.
He also said he had not specifically authorized the mission in Niger: No I didnt, not specifically, but I have generals that are great generals these are great fighters, these are warriors, he told reporters.
I gave them authority to do whats right so that we win.
President Trump speaks as John F. Kelly, White House chief of staff, H.R.
McMaster, national security adviser, and Jim Mattis, secretary of defense, listen during a briefing with senior military leaders.
(Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg News) WHO IS JOHN KELLY?
-- The New York Timess Peter Baker has a smart look at the chief of staff who is lauded around Washington as the so-called grown-up in the room, but also shares many of Trump's tendencies.
For all of the talk of Mr. Kelly as a moderating force and the so-called grown-up in the room, it turns out that he harbors strong feelings on patriotism, national security and immigration that mirror the hard-line views of his outspoken boss.
With his attack on a congresswoman who had criticized Mr. Trumps condolence call to a slain soldiers widow last week, Mr. Kelly showed that he was willing to escalate a politically distracting, racially charged public fight even with false assertions.
Key quote: 'The real issue is understanding really who John Kelly is,' said former Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, a Democrat for whom Mr. Kelly worked at the Pentagon during President Barack Obamas administration.
'If you understand what makes him tick, then it all fits together.'
'He is a Marine first and foremost,' Mr. Panetta said.
'In addition to being a Marine, he was born and raised in Boston' among blue-collar families with traditional views about God and country.
'You combine those two and you realize' that he shares some of these deep values, some of which Trump himself has tried to talk about.'
-- Meanwhile, Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-Fla.), with whom Kelly got into a dispute after her characterization of Trump's phone call to Sgt.
Johnson's widow, has not returned to Capitol Hill amid ongoing threats to her safety.
Miami Heralds Alex Daugherty reports: Congressional vote tallies show that Wilson last voted on Oct. 12, before the House adjourned for a week-long break.
Shes missed 19 votes between Monday, Oct. 23 and Wednesday, Oct. 25.
Shes home, said Rep. Alcee Hastings, a Fort Lauderdale Democrat.
I have not spoken with her about it, but Ive heard that shes received substantial death threats and I think she is doing everything she can to ratchet down and let some of us, including me, take over.
Hastings said she expects Wilson to return next week.
-- This is personal for one at least reporter: With my husband deployed, covering the news hits home, by CNNs Brianna Keilar: [John] Kelly describes the journey of a service member's remains, the journey his son would have taken, after being killed in action.
As I listen to Kelly all I can picture is my husband's body, packed in ice.
I will it to stop.
I can't.
I am arrested by this horrific looping video image in my mind and I can't control the tears.
I ask the floor director for tissues.
I listen to Kelly hoping that he will talk for several more minutes and I will have time to compose myself so I can speak evenly when I bring my panel in to discuss Kelly's comments.
[F]or this moment, as I listen to [Kelly] describe my worst fear, I am not a news person at all.
I am only a military wife trying not to lose it[.]
The main entrance to the Trump National Doral Golf Club in Miami.
(Angel Valentin for the Washington Post) CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: -- GEO Group, a private prison giant, held its annual leadership conference at Trumps National Doral golf resort last week as the group intensifies efforts to align itself with the Trump administration.
Amy Brittain and Drew Harwell report: During last years election, a company subsidiary gave $225,000 to a pro-Trump super PAC.
GEO gave an additional $250,000 to the presidents inaugural committee [and] hired as outside lobbyists a major Trump fundraiser and two former aides to [Jeff Sessions] GEO Group, meanwhile, has had newfound success in Trumps Washington.
The company secured the administrations first contract for an immigration-detention center, a deal worth tens of millions a year.
And its stock price has tripled since hitting a low last year when the Obama administration sought to phase out the use of private prisons a decision that [AG Jeff] Sessions reversed.
GEO Groups achievements over the past year show how a company that has long relied heavily on doing business with the government and whose business model was under threat is thriving in the Trump era.
-- A close ally of Mike Pence has been advising the embattled student debt-relief industry on how to lobby Washington.
BuzzFeed Newss Molly Hensley-Clancy reports: Marty Obst, a longtime adviser to Pence and operative closely aligned with Trumps outside political operation, was a marquee speaker at an industry conference last week[.]
Introduced to the crowd as Mike Pences best friend, Obst told the group that he had personally spoken to legislators about the industry and what he characterized as the good work that debt relief companies were doing for students[.]
He advised the companies to set up a political action committee .
Newsweeks Max Kutner reports: During the event, McMahon spoke for about 20 minutes at a podium with a Trump Hotels sign.
The topics included hurricane relief, SBA initiatives in Louisiana and tax reform .
.
.
During the event, an SBA staffer texted the agencys deputy press secretary with several pictures of McMahon speaking.
In response to the photos, the deputy wrote, Can you try to get the portrait mode one without the Trump hotel sign in it?
-- ICYMI: Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke caught flak for continuing to associate with Scott B. Mackenzie, a political operative accused of running scam PACs.
Politicos Ben Lefebvre and Nick Juliano report: Mackenzies critics claim that his PACs raise small-dollar donations from conservative voters but then spend the bulk of the money on consultants and overhead.
The critics include former Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli, who filed a suit accusing Mackenzie and other defendants of running a national fundraising scam after they gave his 2013 campaign for governor less than a half percent of the money they had raised in his name.
A worker cleans up debris in a neighborhood flooded by Hurricane Harvey in Beaumont, Tex.
(David Goldman/AP) -- Puerto Rico moved to appoint an emergency manager of the islands crippled electrical grid as Whitefish Energy which is based in Zinke's home state came under fire for its $300 million contract to restore power.
Steven Mufson and Aaron C. Davis report: The board said Wednesday that it intends to appoint Noel Zamot, a retired Air Force colonel and member of the oversight panel, to oversee daily operations of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority.
The decision comes as House and Senate Democrats called for an investigation into the utilitys agreement with Whitefish Energy.
Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska) pledged to examine the grid-rebuilding efforts at an upcoming hearing of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which she chairs.
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz on Tuesday told Yahoo News that the contract should be voided right away.
.
.
.
Whitefish on Wednesday clashed with San Juans mayor on Twitter, saying her frustration was misplaced and demoralizing to workers who had come to the island to work on the recovery.
Weve got 44 linemen rebuilding power lines in your city & 40 more men just arrived, Whitefish replied.
Do you want us to send them back or keep working?
The managing editor of Lawfare summarized the exchanges between Cruz and Whitefish in this way: In response to reasonable questions regarding suspicious and irregular federal contracting award, company threatens non-performance.
https://t.co/cnkWusPxMT Susan Hennessey (@Susan_Hennessey) October 25, 2017 -- Meanwhile, Trump met briefly with Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott (R) and several other lawmakers to discuss Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts, as well as how to prepare for future storms.
Jenna Johnson reports: Sitting in a small conference room at a private terminal at Dallas Love Field Airport Trump said he was open to launching some major infrastructure projects in the Houston area that are aimed at reducing flooding during future storms and suggested that homeowners living in flood zones install water-resistant drywall on the first floor of their homes an idea that he credited to his experience in the construction industry.
I'm the builder president.
Remember that, said [Trump].
Ed Gillespie, the Republican candidate for Virginia governor, poses for portraits at his campaign headquarters in Richmond.
(Timothy C. Wright for the Washington Post.)
2017 ELECTION IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER: -- Paul Schwartzman profiles Ed Gillespie, the establishment Republican in Virginias gubernatorial race trying to navigate the Trump era: Over four decades in national politics, Gillespie rose to the highest ranks of Washingtons ruling class, chairing the Republican National Committee, counseling President George W. Bush and earning millions lobbying for corporate clients seeking entree to his rarefied Rolodex.
Yet as he seeks to succeed Democratic Gov.
Terry McAuliffe, Gillespie is at the center of a civil war that is dividing his party, one pitting the Republican establishment he personifies with his four-star credentials against the anti-Washington forces that propelled President Trumps rise.
[T]he presidents populist appeal remains muscular enough that Gillespie has had to become a political contortionist, seeking to appeal to Trumps base without pushing moderates toward his opponent, Lt. Gov.
Ralph Northam (D).
In a sign of his outreach to Trumps base, Gillespie released a new ad saying he would keep standing Confederate statues in the state: -- Meanwhile, Northam sent out a new campaign mailer linking Gillespie and Trump to the white nationalist protests in Charlottesville.
Fenit Nirappil reports: The mailer features images of both Republican men above a photo of the white supremacists with the text, On Tuesday November 7th, Virginia Gets To Stand Up .
.
.
To Hate.
The back of the literature features a prominent image of Democratic gubernatorial candidate Ralph Northam, along with Democratic lieutenant governor nominee Justin Fairfax and Attorney General Mark Herring, with the message This is our chance to stand up to Trump, Gillespie, and hate.
-- Phillip Bump argues that a new Hampton University poll showing Gillespie 8 points ahead in the race should be taken with a grain of salt: [T]heres a critical caveat.
Instead of asking respondents who didnt indicate a choice between Northam and Gillespie who they preferred, those respondents were simply listed as dont know.
The result is dont know ended up getting more than a quarter of the vote.
Why does that matter?
Because it means a quarter of the possible electorate which will weigh in on the race isnt counted.
-- The announcement by Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) that he wont seek reelection has upended the Arizona Senate race.
RealClearPoliticss James Arkin reports: On the GOP side, Flakes exit creates a wide open race for the nomination.
Several GOP sources said they expected multiple members from the House delegation Reps. Martha McSally, David Schweikert, Trent Franks and Andy Biggs to consider a run; Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich is also viewed as a potential candidate.
-- U.S. marshals searched for former congressman David Rivera (R-Fla.) to serve him with an FEC lawsuit as Rivera hobnobbed with state legislators on the Florida Senate floor.
The lawsuit concerns a campaign finance issue that has already resulted in two criminal convictions.
(Politico) -- ICYMI: Former congressman Stephen Fincher (R-Tenn.) entered the race to replace Sen. Bob Corker (R).
He will compete against Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) in the Republican primary.
(Tennessean) SOCIAL MEDIA SPEED READ: Trump congratulated Chinese President Xi Jinping on being granted another five years in power: Spoke to President Xi of China to congratulate him on his extraordinary elevation.
Also discussed NoKo & trade, two very important subjects!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 25, 2017 From an opinion editor for New York Daily News: Congrats on having no checks and balances, all-powerful leader!
https://t.co/CfCv94MKE2 Josh Greenman (@joshgreenman) October 25, 2017 Trump previewed the release of the JFK files: The long anticipated release of the #JFKFiles will take place tomorrow.
So interesting!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 25, 2017 From the Washington Examiners political correspondent: When nothing conspiratorial is revealed in the JFK files, the conspiracy theorists will insist the cover up continues.
No point.
David M. Drucker (@DavidMDrucker) October 25, 2017 Trump offered this odd defense of his civility: Q: Should you be more civil?
Trump: Press makes me more uncivil than I am...
I went to an Ivy League college.
I'm a very intelligent person pic.twitter.com/x2sYu4tYV2 David Mack (@davidmackau) October 25, 2017 From a former State Department official: As a Penn alum this is so embarrassing.
So much worse than having Harvard & Princeton students chant safety school at you https://t.co/3sn0wXPUb5 Ilan Goldenberg (@ilangoldenberg) October 25, 2017 From The Posts Eugene Scott: "The only true wisdom is in knowing you know nothing."
- Socrates https://t.co/OHRSKTXejH Eugene Scott (@Eugene_Scott) October 25, 2017 From a HuffPost writer: we live in hell pic.twitter.com/SVl1p2684m Ashley Feinberg (@ashleyfeinberg) October 25, 2017 Fox News's Lou Dobbs told Trump that he is one of the most loved and respected men in history.
From one of The Post's data reporters: We used to laugh at North Korea for this sort of thing https://t.co/gs5zAhUFpd Christopher Ingraham (@_cingraham) October 25, 2017 Ivanka Trump met with lawmakers to discuss the child tax credit: Productive conversation w/ @IvankaTrump today about increasing the Child Tax Credit & how this would help working families in #WV.
pic.twitter.com/tu5Pt6n2n2 Shelley Moore Capito (@SenCapito) October 25, 2017 Senate Republicans' super PAC went after Steve Bannons choice for a Senate candidate in Nevada: Heres another pledge for @DannyTarkanian to sign backing Bannon over ex-wife charges.
#NVSen pic.twitter.com/qIHE8SrAJL Senate Ldshp Fund (@Senate_Fund) October 25, 2017 Planned Parenthood questioned Mike Pences assertion that Ed Gillespie would be a great governor for ALL Virginians: ALL* *except Latinos, African Americans, or anyone who wants to make their own reproductive health choices https://t.co/5knso42RFG Planned Parenthood (@PPact) October 25, 2017 The undocumented teenager seeking an abortion issued this statement: The undocumented pregnant teen being prevented from getting an abortion by the Trump administration just obtained an abortion.
Here is her statement: pic.twitter.com/scWIrEX008 Ema O'Connor (@o_ema) October 25, 2017 Sen.Ted Cruzs office sent some baked goods to Sen. Flakes office: The Posts national political correspondent had this flashback: This photo from a year ago just popped up in my Facebook feed.
Chyron as prophecy: pic.twitter.com/tbPx566U5X Karen Tumulty (@ktumulty) October 25, 2017 Capitol Hill welcomed trick-or-treaters: There's a Halloween party for kids in the Senate and one is dressed as the bill from Schoolhouse Rock!!!!
pic.twitter.com/nONEbsNnAQ Jeremy Herb (@jeremyherb) October 25, 2017 And Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.
), who faces a tough reelection next year, told Sen. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) this zinger: VIDEO: Watch @clairecmc tell NRSC @CoryGardner, after his car almost hit her: "Probably the only shot you've got to take me out!"
pic.twitter.com/yG37EtItlg Kasie Hunt (@kasie) October 24, 2017 Joe Biden participates in a discussion on bridging political and partisan divides with Ohio Gov.
John Kasich at the University of Delaware.
(Patrick Semansky/AP) GOOD READS FROM ELSEWHERE: -- HuffPost, Four Quitters Walk Into a Bar.
Lydia Polgreen: All of them, at some point over the course of the last nine months, had left their posts within the current administration, having decided that they could better serve their country from outside the government than from within.
They werent happy about quitting, either.
They were civil servants who wanted to remain civil servants, who, except for one, had worked under presidents of both parties.
They had disagreed with superiors over the years, they had been fearful of new regulations and wary of political appointees, but they stayed on because thats the nature of career work in government.
This was different.
-- The Daily Beast, YouTube Trumpkin and Former Milo Intern Kills His Own Dad for Calling Him a Nazi, by Brandy Zadrozny: Lane had spent that Friday morning as he did most mornings, on the internet.
This day, like the others, Lane read and retweeted posts celebrating the Second Amendment, bemoaning diversity, and spreading conspiracy theories that alleged Hillary Clintons campaign chairman John Podesta was involved in a child sex ring[.]
Lane Davis [later] told detectives that the fight [that ended in his fathers death] had started over whether toddlers could consent to sex or not, and his father had called him a Nazi and a racist.
Held on $1 million bail and represented by a public defender, Lane has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder.
-- BuzzFeed News, Who Is Yashar?
by Steven Perlberg: His reporting has touched on major news story after major news story, from the Russia investigation to the Fox News sexual harassment scandal to the Harvey Weinstein saga.
And in media circles, hes gone from a nonentity to a well-sourced journalist recognized by just a first name: Yashar.
In an industry fascinated by unexpected newcomers, reporters and editors have been left wondering just who Yashar Ali his middle, not last name really is.
Yashar says the pen name is meant to protect his family, but in practice, it also obscures his previous career: a major fundraiser for Hillary Clintons 2008 campaign and an aide to former San Francisco mayor and current California lieutenant governor Gavin Newsom.
-- Politico Magazine, Are Trumps Generals in Over Their Heads?
by Mark Perry: [The] recognition that our president needs the kind of guidance that can be provided by senior military officers who know war and bloodshed is repeated throughout the military and on Capitol Hill.
But it is balanced by growing worries that Mattis, Kelly and McMaster are most recently showing that military officers are ill-suited for positions that require years of nuanced political experience and a deft handling of public opinion.
Each of the three were gifted combat officers [But] now we are asking that these three show the same expertise they showed on the battlefields of Iraq in selling the budget of the largest institution of the U.S. government, defending a president who mishandled a phone call with a grieving wife and coordinating a complex and often balky national security bureaucracy Perhaps we are expecting too much.
Or perhaps they are in over their heads.
-- The New York Times interviewed 18 teenage girls who were captured by Boko Haram militants in Nigeria, strapped with suicide bombs and sent into crowds to blow themselves up.
Dionne Searcey reports: Far from having been willing participants, the girls described being kidnapped and held hostage, with family members killed during their capture.
All of the girls recounted how armed militants forcibly tied suicide belts to their waists, or thrust bombs into their hands, before pushing them toward crowds of people.
Most were told that their religion compelled them to carry out the orders.
And all of them resisted, preventing the attacks by begging ordinary citizens or the authorities to help them.
HOT ON THE LEFT: A Trump Official Once Suggested Women Who Get Free Contraception Should Swear They Won't Get An Abortion, from BuzzFeed News: A Trump administration appointee who blocked an undocumented, pregnant teenager from obtaining an abortion has a history of controversial statements about contraception and abortion.
[Scott Lloyd] suggested in multiple opinion articles that women receiving contraception through federal funding should have to sign a pledge promising not to have an abortion and that the Supreme Courts rulings on abortion infringe on mens right to procreation.
I suggest that the American people make a deal with women: So long as you are using the condom, pill or patch I am providing with my money, you are going to promise not to have an abortion if the contraception fails, which it often does, Lloyd wrote [in 2009].
HOT ON THE RIGHT: Georgetown students have filed a discrimination complaint against a campus group promoting heterosexual marriage, from Mary Hui: A Catholic student group at Georgetown University that promotes the benefits of traditional marriage risks losing its funding and other university benefits after being accused of fostering hatred and intolerance.
Love Saxa advocates for marriage as a monogamous and permanent union between a man and a woman, the group states in its constitution.
That definition of marriage happens to be in line with that espoused by the Catholic Church, raising the question of how administrators at Georgetown, the United States oldest Catholic and Jesuit institution of higher learning, will handle the controversy if it eventually comes before them.
DAYBOOK: Trump will give an afternoon speech on the opioid crisis and later meet with EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt.
(Jenna Johnson and Lenny Bernstein report on Trumps speech: [A]dvocates for the people and communities ravaged by this [opioid] crisis are hoping it is the moment when Trump puts action behind his words laying out specific steps to combat an epidemic that is killing nearly 100 people a day.
At the top of advocates wish list is for Trump to propose a major increase in funding.
They say billions of dollars are needed for treatment and prevention and to keep the staggering number of drug users alive.)
Pence has a call with Austrias foreign minister before traveling to Colorado for a tour of the Lockheed Martin Waterton Canyon Facility and an evening fundraiser.
QUOTE OF THE DAY: A senior North Korean official warned that the foreign ministers threat of an atmospheric nuclear test over the Pacific Ocean should be taken literally: The foreign minister is very well aware of the intentions of our supreme leader, so I think you should take his words literally, Ri Yong Pil said on CNN.
NEWS YOU CAN USE IF YOU LIVE IN D.C.: -- D.C. will see temperature highs in the low 60s today.
The Capital Weather Gang forecasts: While not quite frosty, the morning chill will get your attention.
Initially, clouds should be scattered but become numerous as it starts to warm up.
As a result, highs only end up in the upper 50s to low 60s.
Breezes are light, helping to keep it comfortable.
-- The Wizards lost to the Lakers 102-99 in overtime.
(Candace Buckner) -- Virginia state Del.
Robert G. Marshall (R) released a campaign ad accusing his opponent Danica Roem (D), who would be the first transgender person elected to office in the state, of lewd behavior.
Patricia Sullivan reports: The ad, which was posted on Facebook, is titled Bad Judgement.
It says Roem, a former newspaper reporter, has no record of public service but does have a record of bad judgment.
From a shocking bathroom video to lewd behavior during interviews .
.
.
Danica is not interested in our future.
Danica is interested in Danicas future.
-- Protests have taken on a number of new forms in the Trump era, Steve Hendrix and Perry Stein write: [P]ublic actions increasingly combine performance art and catchy visuals to toss a made-to-go-viral insult straight at the president.
It is trolling as dissent.
In the year since Trump won, activists have expanded the age-old Washington reliables of marches and rallies with more-unconventional ploys: queer dance parties, high-wire banner stunts, animated graffiti projected onto the walls of Trumps Washington hotel.
In volume and style, the digital age and the presidents own pugilistic instincts have created a unique moment in movements.
-- A judge adopted the voice of John McLaughlin when announcing his decision that the late talk-show hosts ex-wife could not receive his life insurance payouts.
U.S. District Judge Christopher Casey Cooper began his decision, Question!
On a scale from 1 to 10 with 1 being the chance of a Washington, D.C., professional sports team winning a championship this year and 10 being absolute metaphysical certainty how certain is the Court that Mr. McLaughlin, upon his divorce from his former wife Christina Vidal, intended for her to benefit from two life insurance annuities that he brought to the marriage?
Any answer shy of 9 would be .
.
.
Wrong!
Mr. McLaughlin did not wish his ex-wife to receive the annuity benefits.
(Emily Heil) -- Maryland Gov.
Larry Hogan threatened to push for disbanding the Metro board if it blocks the land transfer needed for Marylands Purple Line.
(Faiz Siddiqui and Katherine Shaver) -- An almost $1 billion renovation of the National Air and Space Museum will begin next summer, closing the western side of the museum.
The renovation will be completed in stages to allow the museum to remain open.
(Peggy McGlone) VIDEOS OF THE DAY: Stephen Colbert interviewed Gretchen Carlson about the shifting culture around sexual harassment: And Seth Meyers asked Megyn Kelly how she decided to speak out about Bill O'Reilly on air: The Senate chaplains prayer seemed to point to Jeff Flakes speech yesterday: Senate Chaplain Black: "Lord, provide us with more patriots who will stand for right regardless of consequences."
pic.twitter.com/1wnvkaIC1D Kyle Griffin (@kylegriffin1) October 25, 2017 The NRA responded to CNN's This is an apple ad: The Posts Nicole Lewis fact-checked Jeff Sessionss claim that immigration lawyers encourage asylum applications: Former deputy CIA director Philip Mudd criticized Trump's claim that reporters present a distorted image of him: The guys a bridge troll.
Watch this now.
Its hysterical.
And spot-on.
pic.twitter.com/LoAHs3AkBq John SCAREavosis (@aravosis) October 25, 2017 And Chi Chi, the quadriplegic golden retriever who was rescued from a South Korean dog meat market, became Internet famous:
Attorney general Jeff Sessions says immigration attorneys are helping illegal immigrants scam the asylum system, but the evidence is thin to support his claim.
(Meg Kelly/The Washington Post) We also have dirty immigration lawyers who are encouraging their otherwise unlawfully present clients to make false claims of asylum providing them with the magic words needed to trigger the credible fear process.
-Attorney General Jeff Sessions, remarks to the Executive Office for Immigration Review, Oct. 12, 2017 On Oct. 8, President Trump released a list of strict immigration policies that include funding for a border wall with Mexico, restricting federal grants to sanctuary cities, and a scaling back of legal pathways to citizenship.
Just a few days later, on Oct. 12, Attorney General Jeff Sessions encouraged Congress to pass the administrations legislative priorities to solve the crisis at our borders.
In a speech, Sessions described an immigration system rife with fraud and abuse which paves the way for millions of immigrants to enter the country illegally.
Sessions zeroed in on the asylum system in the United States, asserting that dirty immigration lawyers are coaching their clients to make fake claims to trigger credible fear proceedings so they can stay in the United States.
Regular readers of The Fact Checker may recall weve dug into Sessions rhetoric on immigration before, often giving him Pinocchios for statements that are thin on the facts.
Is this just one more instance of Sessions inflammatory rhetoric or is the rise in new cases due primarily to fraud and lawyers, as he claims?
Lets take a look.
The Facts Sessions asserts immigration lawyers are coaching their clients to use the magic words to trigger the credible fear process and stay in the United States.
Lets break this down.
Most credible fear claims occur after a person is caught by Customs and Border Protection travelling through legal points of entry without proper paperwork or crossing the border illegally via land or sea.
In these cases, the foreign national is detained and subject to an expedited deportation.
But if the foreign national claims he or she would face persecution or torture should they return home, the removal process is halted while an immigration official determines the merit of the claim.
If an official determines the subject has credible fear, the case is referred to an immigration Judge for a full hearing.
As of 2009, immigrants determined to have a legitimate claim are eligible for parole from detention, provided they are not a security risk, as they wait their court date.
To make his case that most of these claims are illegitimate, Sessions cites U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration data on credible fear proceedings in the United States.
In 2009, there were roughly 5,500 credible fear cases.
By 2016, that number had skyrocketed to 94,000.
Sessions is particularly concerned with the subset of cases in which people crossed over the border illegally and claimed fear of return.
In 2016, these claims made up 69,000 of the total 94,000 cases.
Are immigration lawyers to blame for this increase?
When asked what data Sessions is citing to make his case against immigration lawyers, a spokesperson for the Justice Department pointed to a 2015 report by the Government Accountability Office assessing the risk of fraud in the asylum process, which includes credible fear claims.
The GAO report found that USCIS and the DOJs Executive Office for Immigration Review: Were not equipped to assess fraud in the asylum process in accordance with established guidelines.
Were not able to identify patterns of fraud across asylum applications because the agencies used paper applications instead of electronic ones.
Had not established clear fraud detection responsibilities for its immigration officers in asylum offices.
However, the report does highlight a few documented cases of fraud, noting that from 2010 to 2014 USCIS terminated asylum status for 374 people because of fraud.
And that a 2014 investigation in New York resulted in fraud charges against 30 individuals who were connected to roughly 4,500 asylum applications.
Additionally, in 2014, an immigration consultant in Los Angeles, who had been linked to 800 asylum applications, pleaded guilty to document fraud, conspiracy and identity theft.
To be clear, USCIS cant know how widespread fraud in the asylum system is because they arent equipped to assess it.
Sessions bases his claim on roughly 6,000 documented cases of fraud, committed by 31 consultants or lawyers.
Because the report addresses the asylum system as a whole, it is impossible to know how many of these cases are credible fear claims.
So far, Sessionss evidence is thin.
So what accounts for the surge in credible fear cases?
Immigration experts say the rise in credible fear claims reflects the influx in people fleeing violence, and human rights abuses in Central Americas Northern Triangle Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador.
In 2016, as scores of women and children poured across the border, the Department of Homeland Security announced an initiative to help those escaping the humanitarian crisis and seeking refuge in the U.S..
Sessions takes particular issue with credible fear claims made by people crossing the border illegally.
Since 2000, the number of people crossing the border illegally from countries other than Mexico has increased fourfold as the number of people from Mexico has steadily declined.
It is a significant shift, as many emigrating from Mexico are considered economic migrants in search of better opportunities.
And the credible fear claims reflect these immigration trends.
A 2015 report from the Center for Immigration Studies, found that immigrants from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras made up 80 percent of all new credible fear applications since 2014.
Many of the people crossing the border illegally do so with the help of smugglers, commonly known as coyotes.
Faye Hipsman, former policy analyst at Migration Policy Institute, said its the coyotes not lawyers who are likely coaching people crossing the border to make credible fear claims.
Very few people have had a chance to speak with an immigration lawyer before the credible fear stage, said Hipsman.
Any instructions to claim fear at that point would be coming from smugglers.
They may tell migrants, try to get through undetected, but if you get caught say this.
Thats because expedited removal, the pre-requisite for credible fear claims, only applies to people picked up within 100 miles of the border who have been in the country for fewer than 14 days.
The detainees can consult with lawyers or other counselors before their initial interview, but the interview takes place after the claim of credible fear is made.
A 2013 report by Human Rights First found that nearly 80 percent of immigrants in detention centers do not have a lawyer during their immigration proceedings.
In 2016, USCIS found that 80 percent of the 69,000 inland cases were legitimate, requiring a hearing in immigration court.
These cases are reviewed by trained immigration officials, using guidelines set out by USCIS.
In 2014, USCIS tightened the guidelines, adding that applicants must demonstrate a substantial and realistic possibility of succeeding in their cases.
The Fact Checker documented these facts to DOJ, seeking a response.
But we did not receive one.
The Pinocchio Test Sessions claims dirty immigration lawyers, are coaching their clients to make false claims to stay in the United States.
But his claim rests on little evidence.
The GAO report his spokesman cited details the challenges of evaluating how widespread fraud in the asylum system is.
And Sessions seems to be confusing the details of the credible fear process.
Most credible fear claims happen at the border without the consultation of lawyers.
The data show that people from Central America, where violence and humanitarian abuses have surged, make up most of the credible fear claims.
About 80 percent of the time, a trained immigration official ruled that the cases are legitimate, requiring a court ruling.
Sessions lacks the evidence to make his claim but he uses the lack of evidence in a dubious way, filling in the missing pieces with inflammatory rhetoric on immigration fraud and casting immigration lawyers in a negative light.
Until Sessions can point to concrete evidence of widespread fraud, he should refrain from making such sweeping and definitive statements.
We award Sessions Three Pinocchios.
Three Pinocchios (About our rating scale) Send us facts to check by filling out this form Keep tabs on Trumps promises with our Trump Promise Tracker Sign up for The Fact Checker weekly newsletter Fact Checker User Poll Voting is closed on this poll User Poll Results: Do you rate this claim as true or false?
More Pinocchios for false, fewer based on your opinion of the statement's truthfulness.
(The check mark means you think the statement is true, not that you agree with the rating.)
20% 20% 20% 20% 20% Pardon the interruption!
We need to verify that you are an actual person.
View Results This is a non-scientific user poll.
Results are not statistically valid and cannot be assumed to reflect the views of Washington Post users as a group or the general population.
House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Oct. 25 compared the tax reform process to whitewater rafting.
and said it's about to hit "Class V rapids."
(Reuters) House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) on Oct. 25 compared the tax reform process to whitewater rafting.
and said it's about to hit "Class V rapids."
(Reuters) House Republican leaders made a frantic attempt Wednesday to keep their aggressive tax overhaul effort on schedule, working to win over members who have balked at a proposal to ditch a key income tax deduction.
The House is scheduled to cast a critical budget vote Thursday which would set out key parameters for the tax bill and pave the way for Republicans to pass it without Democratic cooperation.
But some of the Republicans concerned about the effort to eliminate or limit the existing deduction for state and local taxes have threatened to vote no, potentially blocking the legislations progress.
Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) said this week that he plans to pass the tax bill through the House by Thanksgiving, and any delay in the budget vote could upset that timetable.
[House narrowly passes budget, paving way for $1.5 trillion tax cut] House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) talks to reporters after the weekly House Republican Conference meeting at the U.S. Capitol on Oct. 24, in Washington, D.C. Ryan and the GOP leadership said that tax cuts and reforms are their priority and they hope to get legislation out of the House by the Thanksgiving holiday.
(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) At least four GOP lawmakers from high-tax states said Tuesday that they intended to vote against the budget unless a deal is in place to at least partially preserve the state- and local-tax deduction, also known as SALT.
All were dismayed by language included in the latest version of the budget that refers to reducing federal deductions, such as the state and local tax deduction which disproportionately favors high-income individuals.
They argue that many middle-class households in high-cost-of-living areas take advantage of the deduction.
That language shouldnt have been added to the Senate budget, said Rep. Lee Zeldin (R-N.Y.).
Unless I get more concrete information on a reasonable agreement, then I will be a no on Thursday.
House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-Tex.)
on Wednesday evening said GOP leaders will take our time with those members, because we want to see people keep more of their earnings, regardless of where they live, including in high-tax states.
He said he is confident Republicans have the support necessary to pass their spending blueprint, because this budget vote is about allowing pro-growth tax reform to occur.
It isnt the tax bill.
House GOP leaders are planning to huddle with the blue-state Republicans on the issue following the budget vote Thursday, a leadership source said.
The committees crafting the tax bill are counting on the elimination of the deduction to generate hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue to offset rate cuts and other provisions in the tax bill.
President Trump unveiled his tax plan on April 26, after months of pledging to make drastic changes to the tax code.
The Post's Damian Paletta explains why tax reform is so complicated.
(Jenny Starrs/The Washington Post) [Deficits, schmeficits: House conservatives cast aside fiscal warnings to make way for tax cuts] Among the options under discussion are allowing taxpayers to deduct only their property taxes, not income or sales taxes; phasing out the deduction for higher-income taxpayers; or replacing the deduction with a tax credit that could also be phased out for high earners.
This is a big issue, and it has to be resolved, said Rep. Tom MacArthur (R-N.J.).
Tax reform is good for the country.
Its just not good for the country when its on the back of six states.
Thats the problem.
Ryan acknowledged at an event hosted by Reuters on Wednesday that a full repeal of the SALT deduction was unlikely and that a compromise would have to be reached.
I think theres a way of addressing the concerns that our members have from middle-income taxpayers in those states so that they are net winners in tax reform as well, he said.
Rep. Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), a member of the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee who has been negotiating a compromise, said he thinks a deal with House leaders is in reach.
They recognize the serious nature of the problem that needs to be addressed, and that is where I think the total repeal of the state and local tax deduction, in my opinion, is off the table and going in the right direction, he said.
Obviously, if we had a preference, wed love to keep it, but I think the reality of a good-faith compromise is where I think we will land.
Reed said that a final deal may not materialize before the budget vote, but that significant progress toward a deal could win over balking members.
Because [leaders are] acting in good faith, I expect members to act in good faith, he said.
If thats where we get to where we have, not a deal, but a solution in concept that will probably be enough to move us to the next level.
[Trump who?
Republicans seem to be totally ignoring the president on taxes.]
The House GOPs chief vote counter said things were on track for the budgets passage Thursday but acknowledged that some members still needed convincing from GOP leaders.
Multiple Republican leadership aides said they expected the vote to be close but ultimately successful.
Were gonna get this thing done, House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.)
said in a brief interview.
Theyre working really hard.
We want to work with them to find a solution.
There were signs Wednesday that the SALT deduction proponents might be splintering in their effort to force action before the budget vote.
Some of those who had threatened earlier in the week to vote against the budget absent a deal stepped back from those threats, and at least two New York Republicans, Reed and Rep. Chris Collins, said they would vote for the budget.
A meeting of the balking members set for Wednesday evening in Ryans office to discuss options for addressing the deduction was canceled late in the day amid growing confidence that House leaders had secured the votes.
I believe there are Republicans who want to vote no who will vote yes if their vote is needed because we all know we have to get to tax reform, and theres only one way to get there, Collins said.
So with the urgency of that, I think we do get there.
Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-Calif.) said that while he still had questions about the handling of the SALT deduction, he would not vote against the budget.
I dont think thats the way to do it, he said.
Democrats, meanwhile, warned of dire political repercussions for Republicans in states where the SALT deduction is popular.
If you live in any of the states where there is a state and local tax, you are going to pay a lot more taxes, and your Republican member is the person who is going to facilitate that or not, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in an interview Tuesday.
And one of the things we are doing now is to make sure that people know what this means to them.
It would be a tremendous advantage to go after those people in their districts on that, she added.
But we dont want to do that.
We want to protect those people from that action.
Thats our priority.
Lets just defeat that.
Michael Scherer contributed to this report.
Read more at PowerPost
Republicans are facing a growing unity problem that's impeding their policy goals, even though they're in the majority.
(Jenny Starrs/TWP) Republicans are facing a growing unity problem that's impeding their policy goals, even though they're in the majority.
(Jenny Starrs/TWP) Allies of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell declared open warfare on Wednesday against Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and leader of an insurrection aimed at defeating mainstream Republican candidates in next years midterm elections.
More than a year ahead of the 2018 congressional contests, a super PAC aligned with McConnell (R-Ky.) revealed plans to attack Bannon personally as it works to protect GOP incumbents facing uphill primary fights.
The effort reflects the growing concern of Republican lawmakers over the rise of anti-establishment forces and comes amid escalating frustration over President Trumps conduct, which has prompted a handful of lawmakers to publicly criticize the president.
Yet the retaliatory crusade does not aim to target Trump, whose popularity remains high among Republican voters.
Instead, the McConnell-allied Senate Leadership Fund (SLF) will highlight Bannons hard-line populism and attempt to link him to white nationalism to discredit him and the candidates he will support.
It will also boost candidates with traditional GOP profiles and excoriate those tied to Bannon, with plans to spend millions and launch a heavy social media presence in some states.
The turbulence presents a danger to Republicans narrow 52-seat majority in the Senate, with seasoned GOP lawmakers deciding against seeking reelection amid the political storm and with many GOP voters cheering the rancor that Bannon has stoked from his perch at his website, Breitbart.
[Daily 202: Flake and Corker feel liberated.
That should terrify Trump.]
Former White House adviser Stephen K. Bannon argued against "nation building" in Afghanistan on Oct. 23.
"We have to build a nation called the United States of America," he said.
(Hudson Institute) Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), in an emotional plea Tuesday, said that he would not run in 2018, after Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) had done the same in late September.
Both men, no longer accountable to Republican primary voters, have taken on higher-profile roles as critics of the president, with Corker calling for a day care to step in and control him and Flake calling Trumps behavior unacceptable.
Some Republican lawmakers have privately fretted that simply speaking out against Trumps incendiary statements or the Bannon-aligned candidates that are rousing anger in their states will not be enough and could backfire as they try to survive the surge of grievance-driven politics that has gripped the GOPs base.
Its tough, Flake told CNN on Wednesday.
Im competitive.
I like to fight these battles.
But I also knew that I couldnt run the kind of race that I would be proud of and win in a Republican primary at this time.
The politics in that way have changed.
In the wake of Flakes announcement, the SLF called Arizona state Sen. Kelli Ward, Bannons pick to replace Flake, a conspiracy theorist and promised to ensure her defeat.
In recent weeks, Bannon has held court as dozens of candidates have streamed through his Capitol Hill townhouse, including Ward last week, urging them to pledge to vote against McConnell for majority leader.
Mississippi state Sen. Chris McDaniel (R) is close to making a decision on a bid against Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.)
and has won Bannons blessing, according to a person close to him.
Hedge fund executive Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah Bannons wealthy allies have pledged millions to the cause, said people briefed on their plans.
Bannons critics argue that he is causing unnecessary internal divisions that could make it harder to pass tax legislation and to win general elections next fall.
They also point to Sen. Luther Stranges defeat in last months Republican primary in a special Senate election in Alabama as an example of a dynamic they worry could repeat itself across the next year if left unchecked.
The SLF spent more than $10 million to help Strange.
Strange was endorsed by Trump and McConnell but lost to a former state judge, Roy Moore, who had won the backing of Bannon and his orbit of allies.
Moore is now in a tight race with Democratic nominee Doug Jones.
This is a guy who is more interested in seeing his name in the headlines than he is in any kind of accomplishment for the president, said Josh Holmes, a former chief of staff to McConnell who has been increasingly outspoken in his opposition to Bannon.
It comes at great cost to the presidents term, the Republican Party and any hope they can have at working as a team.
On Wednesday, the SLFs Twitter account mocked Danny Tarkanian a frequent conservative candidate in Nevada who is challenging Sen. Dean Heller (R-Nev.) for suggesting that Heller join him in pledging to oppose McConnell as majority leader.
The tweets also turned the spotlight on Bannon.
The SLF tweeted a 2016 headline from the New York Daily News Anti-Semitic Trump campaign CEO Stephen Bannon not a big fan of whiny brat Jews, ex-wife says with space for Tarkanians signature.
Heres another pledge for @DannyTarkanian to sign, the PAC tweeted.
The Daily News reported last year that in a 2007 court statement, Bannons former wife Mary Louise Piccard said he didnt want their twin daughters attending a school because too many Jews attended.
The biggest problem he had with Archer [School for Girls in Los Angeles] is the number of Jews that attend, Piccard said in her statement, the newspaper reported.
Bannons spokeswoman Alexandra Preate told The Washington Post last year that Bannon has denied saying that and proudly sent the girls to Archer.
And after seeing the SLF tweet to Tarkanian on Wednesday, a Bannon confidant said, he responded to the groups social media blitz with laughter as he has to other recent attacks on his character.
That attack was one of a number of swipes at Bannon that have popped up as the former White House adviser has emerged as a player on the national political scene.
Holmes and others have called him a white supremacist.
Holmes defended his use of the term to describe Bannon in a recent interview.
If you look at his associations, the people who are ecstatic about his efforts, the long history of conduct that he has been a part of, I will let others come to their conclusions, he said.
But this is not a guy that just burst on the scene.
Lets not act like everybody doesnt know exactly who Steve Bannon is.
Bannon has said repeatedly that his nationalist, populist vision includes a place for all races, sexual orientations and genders to succeed.
Do we need any further evidence than Mitch McConnell and his cronies reducing themselves to using left-wing talking points to attack Steve?
Its pathetic to watch, said Andy Surabian, a senior adviser to the Great America Alliance super PAC and Bannons former deputy at the White House.
The pro-Trump PAC is engaged in a slew of races, sending around a bus to rally activists, and counts longtime operative Edward Rollins as its strategist.
Every poll shows Mitch McConnell is an albatross on the Republican candidates, Surabian said.
If McConnell truly cared about our Republican majority in the Senate more than he cares about his own power, then he would step down as Senate majority leader today.
Bannons circle says the contents of his divorce proceedings, along with claims of racism, are unlikely to do new damage to his reputation, since he has been targeted in the past along those same lines by Democrats, and even in a Saturday Night Live caricature as an angel of death.
Advisers also note that the attacks elevate Bannons profile, which could help carry his anti-establishment message.
In an email, SLF President Steven Law said he expects Bannon to become a liability for any insurgent candidates he supports in 2018.
But his real impact would be felt in general elections, where Bannons well-documented, toxic views and alt-right paper trail could become a liability for candidates who are perceived as closely tied to him, Law said.
According to public polling, neither McConnell nor Bannon is in good standing with voters.
In an April poll conducted by Quinnipiac University, one of few to ask voters about Bannon, just 11 percent said they viewed him positively and 45 percent said they viewed him negatively.
The numbers were better among Republicans, with a nine-point favorability margin.
Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.
), one of the incumbents mentioned as a possible target for Bannon in 2018, dismissed the effort to get Senate Republicans to sign pledges vowing to oppose McConnell.
No, I havent signed pledges.
I didnt sign Grover Norquists pledge, Barrasso said on Wednesday, referring to the anti-tax advocates famous pledge.
Im not a guy that signs pledges, and Im going to vote for whoever I believe is in the best interests of the people of Wyoming.
The reasons for Flakes decision may be tied less to the national environment surrounding the feud between McConnell and Bannon and more about raw home-state politics.
Reams of public and private polling in recent months have found Flake to be an unpopular incumbent, especially among the Republican voters he would need to win over in a primary fight next year.
McConnells polling among Republicans has tumbled since the start of the year a fact that Bannon has used to his advantage.
On Tuesday, Bannons Breitbart website reported that a Harvard-Harris poll found 56 percent of Republicans in favor of dumping McConnell as leader.
That same day, at a media roundtable organized by the conservative Heritage Foundation, a reporter for Breitbart asked members of the House Freedom Caucus to respond to the poll number.
It was that high?
scoffed Rep. Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), wondering jokingly about why it wasnt even higher.
As the two sides spar, Senate Republicans are trying to demonstrate that the partys agenda is moving forward despite the infighting and that relations with the White House are smooth.
On Wednesday, a day after Flake made his charged speech, Ivanka Trump appeared with Republican senators to pitch a child tax credit that she has lobbied to include in the upcoming tax legislation.
Still, GOP donors who are friendly with McConnell welcomed the effort to thwart Bannons attempts to shape the 2018 contests and rattle McConnell as Senate Republicans are trying to work with Trump.
Absolutely.
Why not?
said Al Hoffman, a major Republican donor and McConnell ally.
Youve got to get rid of the Bannon banner.
Ed OKeefe and Paul Kane in Washington and Sean Sullivan in Alabama contributed to this report.
Read more at PowerPost
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton promotes her new book "What Happened" on Monday, Oct. 23, 2017 in Montreal.
(Ryan Remiorz/The Canadian Press via AP) (Ryan Remiorz/AP) Hillary Clinton and top officials of her presidential campaign were largely silent Wednesday in response to the revelation that the campaign and the Democratic National Committee had paid for research that resulted in a dossier alleging Russian interference on behalf of Donald Trump in the 2016 election.
Neither Clinton nor her campaign manager, Robby Mook, responded to requests for comment Wednesday.
Campaign chair John Podesta declined to comment beyond referring reporters to a statement issued the previous day by the campaigns law firm saying officials had not been aware of the arrangement.
Brian Fallon, the former campaign spokesman, said he didnt know about the research at the time but called it money well spent if it provided information useful to the special counsel now investigating Russias involvement.
Trump, meanwhile, told reporters Wednesday that the involvement of the DNC and the Clinton campaign was a very sad commentary on politics in this country.
...
I think it is a disgrace.
The Washington Post reported Tuesday that Democratic attorney Marc E. Elias had retained the research firm Fusion GPS, which later hired Christopher Steele, a former British intelligence agent who had worked on Russia-related issues.
Steele drafted reports in 2016 that were later compiled into a dossier alleging Trump had ties to Russia and was benefiting from Kremlin interest in his campaign.
Eliass firm Perkins Coie represented the Clinton campaign and the DNC.
The new report is likely to provide ammunition to Trump and his allies, who have long portrayed the dossier as a partisan document designed to undermine the election results.
U.S. intelligence agencies concluded last year that Russia had intervened in the 2016 election to help elect Trump.
But GOP congressional investigators have shown interest in exposing the role that Democratic money played in the dossier, and have questioned whether the FBIs initial inquiries into possible Trump campaign coordination with Russia were driven by partisan concerns.
Officials have said the FBI has confirmed some of the information in the dossier, though not its most sensational accusations.
Steele began providing the FBI with information about his research before the election.
In September, FBI agents working with special counsel Robert S. Mueller III traveled to London to debrief Steele more thoroughly about his work.
The top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Adam B. Schiff (Calif.), said he thought Republicans were trying to divert attention from what was important about the dossier, which was already known to have been funded by partisan interests.
Christopher Steele, no matter who was paying for his services, may have discovered before our own intelligence agencies that the Russians were going to interfere in our election on behalf of Donald Trump, Schiff told MSNBC Tuesday night.
DNC officials were muted in their response to the report that party funds had been used to underwrite Steeles research.
A spokesman for Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (Fla.), who was DNC chairwoman at the time Perkins Coie contracted with Fusion, said Wednesday the former chair was not aware of the law firms arrangement with Fusion.
Federal Election Commission records show that the Clinton campaign paid the Perkins Coie law firm $5.6 million in legal fees from June 2015 to December 2016, according to campaign finance records, and the DNC paid the firm $3.6 million in legal and compliance consulting since November 2015.
Some of those total fees were apparently paid to Fusion GPS.
Former top aides to Clinton and the DNC were reluctant to discuss the arrangement Wednesday, but several spoke on the condition of anonymity to defend it.
This is what campaigns do, one former campaign official said.
It makes sense for a law firm to contract that work and maintain confidentiality because it is extremely risky, the official said.
Adam Entous, Devlin Barrett and Matt Zapotosky contributed to this report.
President Trump called himself "the builder president" during a meeting with Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott (R) on Oct. 25 in Dallas about recovery efforts in the wake of Hurricane Harvey.
(The Washington Post) DALLAS As President Trump made his way to a high-dollar GOP fundraiser on Wednesday afternoon, he briefly met with a few local officials to discuss the ongoing recovery efforts following Hurricane Harvey and to strategize on how the state could better prepare for future hurricanes.
Sitting in a small conference room at a private terminal at Dallas Love Field Airport with Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott (R), Texas Lt. Gov.
Dan Patrick (R) and others, Trump said he was open to launching major infrastructure projects in the Houston area that are aimed at reducing flooding during future storms and suggested that homeowners living in flood zones install water-resistant drywall on the first floor of their homes an idea that he credited to his experience in the construction industry.
I'm the builder president.
Remember that, said the president whose major legacy thus far has been deconstructing policies and programs put into place by President Barack Obama.
Trump told the officials that he wants them to present him with plans for how Houston can address flooding on a more permanent basis, and that he's interested in the concepts he has heard about thus far, although he needs to learn more about the costs.
[In a Houston neighborhood hit by Hurricane Harvey, Trump supporters debate how much aid Puerto Rico should get] Let's take a look at the costs and then see if it's possible to do, because that would save a lot of money into the future, and it would also put a lot of people to work, Trump said.
So let's see what we can do.
Trump said that had this work been done earlier, destruction from Hurricane Harvey in Houston two months ago would have been perhaps almost nothing.
The president also shared his idea for hurricane-proofing homes built in flood zones.
It's called greenboard, Trump said, explaining that it's a form of drywall that builders often use in shower stalls, bathrooms and other places that are exposed to moisture.
Water has no impact on it.
Although greenboard drywall is moisture-resistant, it is not waterproof.
Still, the president suggested that homeowners install it on the first-floor of their homes.
Frankly, if people would do that on their first floor, that water would come in, it would come out, and they would be back in business.
You wouldn't have to rip out the whole house after a major flooding event, Trump said.
As Trump touched down in Dallas on Wednesday afternoon, he tweeted from his personal account: The long anticipated release of the #JFKFiles will take place tomorrow.
So interesting!
Thursday is the day designated in the 1992 Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act to make public another batch of classified CIA and FBI documents related to the former president's assassination in Dallas in November 1963.
Trump announced on Saturday that he plans to allow the files to be opened, subject to the receipt of further information.
The White House later said that if other government agencies made a strong case not to release the documents, he wouldnt.
[Trump plans to release JFK assassination documents despite concerns from federal agencies] Trump was greeted at the airport by the governor and several dozen supporters who chanted, Trump!
Trump!
Trump!
and USA!
USA!
USA!
The president spent about 10 minutes chatting with those supporters shaking hands, air-kissing the cheeks of several women and signing autographs.
One woman yelled again and again: We love you!
We love you!
After the briefing, Trump traveled to the Belo Mansion and Pavilion for a series of events with donors to his reelection campaign and the Republican National Committee.
He was greeted by a few dozen protesters, some of whom held signs that read: Elect a clown, expect a circus, Liar Liar Liar, SHAME, Trump, that boy don't act right, Having Trump in charge of the economy is like having a rat in charge of the cheese and Immigrants built this country.
At one point, the protesters chanted, Shame on you!
Fundraiser organizers expect about 200 people to attend.
Tickets range from $2,700 per person to $100,000 per couple, and organizers expect to raise $4 million.
The vote was 216-212, with 20 Republicans joining Democrats in opposing the measure.
Republicans passed the bill despite some opposition within the party over a plan to eliminate the popular State And Local Tax deduction in the tax reform framework.
The budget includes reconciliation rules that will allow the Senate to pass tax reform with only a simple majority rather than the usual 60 to overcome a filibuster.
The Senate has already approved the bill, and while the reconciliation rules next head to the President's desk, the President does not sign the budget resolution.
President Donald Trump, who is pushing for tax reform, tweeted after the vote , "Big news - Budget just passed!"
The current tax reform framework calls for nixing SALT deductions, a tax break used by nearly one-third of filers.
Cutting the deduction would help Republicans raise more than a trillion dollars to help pay for tax cuts over 10 years, making it a huge source of revenue for their overall plan to reform the tax code.
But Republicans from states like New York, New Jersey, Illinois and California argued that their constituents rely on the deduction.
While some are open to making changes to SALT -- such as capping the income level at which taxpayers could use it -- others don't favor any kind of compromise and want tax writers to leave SALT completely alone.
"My solution is to take it off the table," said Republican Rep. Leonard Lance of New Jersey.
The House passed a budget earlier this month, but the Senate made some changes when it approved it last week and then kicked it back over to the House.
One of those changes was language that targets deductions like SALT, which is why some lawmakers -- like Lance -- said they'd oppose the budget even if a deal was worked out beforehand, which did not take place.
Negotiations were set to continue over the deduction in a meeting shortly after the vote.
"The preference is to keep the state and local tax as is," said Republican Rep. Tom Reed of New York.
"Clearly, in my opinion, that is not going to be the case, so then the question becomes, is there a compromise position that we can live with?"
The state and local tax deduction was one of the earliest deductions that Republicans announced would be eliminated, and the uproar was swift.
The House GOP is expected to unveil text of its bill next week, and members warn that there will be a dozen more changes to the tax code that will upset members and various constituencies.
This story has been updated and will continue to update with new developments.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) The beginning of Donald Trump's presidency began with a threat from activists to unseat any Democrat, in any position, who crossed party lines or failed to keep a hard line of liberal resistance against the new administration.
Those calls, along with an ongoing and testy internal fight over the direction of the party, seemed to boost the prospects of a bloody 2018 primary season.
But somewhere along the way, the grim reality of Democrats' position in Washington came into focus -- perhaps it was the travel ban, or the solidarity created during the longer battle to protect Obamacare -- and the party, at least on the federal level, settled into a period of electoral dtente.
The promised rebellions faded as progressive Sen. Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent, rededicated his "political revolution" to grassroots campaigns and organizing.
And even moderate "blue dog" incumbents, like West Virginia Sen. Joe Manchin, stuck with the base through 2017, deflating his progressive challenger's campaign before it could gain any traction.
Still, there is a lot worth watching as Democrats sort out their candidates, and priorities, ahead of the November 2018 elections.
Here are a few races, some big and others probably below the radar, that could give us a hint about where the party is headed.
1.
California: Feinstein vs. de Len vs. the field California state Senate leader Kevin de Len, Sen. Dianne Feinstein and Tom Steyer No, it's not technically a Democratic primary -- California throws everyone, whatever their party ID, onto the same ballot for an open primary, with the top two finishers advancing to the fall election.
That said, the California Senate race figures to be the most compelling Democratic intra-party contest of the coming year, with California state Senate leader Kevin de Len the early favorite to advance to a November showdown with incumbent Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who is all but a lock to finish top in the June primary.
(This system locked Republicans out of the 2016 general election Senate ballot, too.)
De Len comes in to Feinstein's left but will likely split some of the spring vote with other liberal challengers.
Billionaire activist Tom Steyer hasn't ruled out a run.
Same for another (less) wealthy activist, Joe Sanberg, who is also considering it.
Progressive groups are floating some long shot candidates of their own and David Hildebrand, a self-described Democratic socialist, could attract support from the left.
2.
Illinois governor: Two familiar names and one outsider J.B. Pritzker and Chris Kennedy A billionaire, a Kennedy, and a little known, progressive state senator are the three to keep an eye on as Democrats gear up for a fight with the wildly wealthy incumbent Republican Gov.
Bruce Rauner.
J.B. Pritzker is the Hyatt heir and venture capitalist with a name familiar to everyone in the region (and a sister who served as President Barack Obama's commerce secretary).
Chris Kennedy, son of the late Robert Kennedy, had some practice jabbing at Rauner, assailing his "so-called turnaround agenda" as a sleight of hand, and "part of the narrative that government doesn't work so he has to privatize it," in remarks at the Democratic convention in 2016.
Kennedy is the early, if narrow, favorite, but Pritzker's overstuffed pockets will allow him to spend (and spend and spend) all the way up to the vote.
State Sen. Daniel Biss might be the most interesting (and left-most) of the three, but his campaign is struggling to break through.
In part, that's a money issue.
Pritzker and Kennedy are awash in it.
Biss is not, and he tripped out of the gate when he brought on Chicago Alderman Carlos Ramirez-Rosa as his running mate, then promptly parted ways with him after Ramirez-Rosa's support for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against the Israeli government grabbed some headlines.
The decision dampened Biss' progressive cred -- Ramirez-Rosa, a Democratic Socialists of America member, never hid his support for BDS -- and raised questions about the campaign's vetting process.
3.
Iowa governor: A big, rowdy tent Andy McGuire, John Norris and Cathy Glasson Perhaps the widest open of the big ticket Democratic primaries, the Iowa race was also the least likely, one year ago, to turn into a national pressure point.
If Trump had not tapped the state's now former Republican governor, Terry Branstad, to become his ambassador to China, the field would surely be much smaller.
Instead, there are -- right now -- seven candidates vying for the nomination.
And while there's no reliable public polling at this point, the early buzz is with candidates like Andy McGuire, the former state party chairwoman, John Norris, an Iowa political fixture who ran Jesse Jackson's 1988 campaign there , State Sen. Nate Boulton, and Cathy Glasson, a nurse and union leader who is working overtime to court the Berniecrat crowd.
She recently nabbed an endorsement of Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement Action Fund, a progressive group close to Sanders.
Activist Jon Neiderbach, former Iowa City Mayor Ross Wilburn and businessman Fred Hubbell are also in the mix.
But the tone of the debate could be as important as its results.
As the Des Moines Register's Jason Noble put it back in May , "a crowded and dynamic primary could help the (state) party clarify its message."
4.
Illinois-3: Blue Dog under attack Marie Newman One of the few incumbent Democrats facing a serious primary challenge on the federal level, Rep. Dan Lipinski, a "blue dog" now vying for an eighth term in the House, is generally regarded as one of the party's most conservative elected officials.
He is anti-abortion and voted against Obamacare in 2010.
This year, he opposed the GOP repeal plan but voted in the House for "Kate's Law," a controversial bill that would crackdown on undocumented immigrants who repeatedly enter the country illegally after being deported.
In a district Hillary Clinton won comfortably in 2016, a challenge seemed inevitable.
On the flip side, Marie Newman has a profile more in line with the party's recent liberal shift.
She was endorsed by the Daily Kos , the liberal online activist hub.
"The 3rd District is beyond solidly blue," Newman told columnist Ted Slowik in July.
"We have this Republican in Democrat's clothing inside the district acting as our voice in Congress."
Lipinski, though, has deep roots in the state political establishment -- his father, preceded him in Congress before becoming a lobbyist -- and has fended off a primary challenge before.
He also figures to outspend Newman.
5.
Oklahoma governor: It's not impossible!
Connie Johnson Yes, there are Democrats in deep red Oklahoma.
And with Republican Gov.
Mary Fallin a term-limited lame duck, they won't have an incumbent to take on in 2018.
History suggests it's not a lost cause either, as Fallin's predecessor, the Democratic Gov.
Brad Henry, also served two terms.
What was a three-way race featuring former state Attorney General Drew Edmondson, State Rep. Scott Inman and Connie Johnson, a former state senator and DSA member -- by far the most liberal of the group -- was cut down to two on Wednesday, when Inman abruptly dropped out and announced plans to resign his current post next year.
Edmondson belongs to one of the best known and most powerful families in Oklahoma politics.
His father was a US congressman, his uncle a governor and US senator, and brother James is now on the state Supreme Court.
But progressives will be interested to see how Johnson fares -- especially after Inman's departure.
An unabashed progressive, she spent nearly a decade in the state senate and, in 2014, became the first woman and African American to win her party's nomination for the US Senate out of Oklahoma.
6.
New York: Who's going to take a run at Cuomo?
New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo It's been a difficult year, but Gov.
Andrew Cuomo is still liking his odds in what could yet be a contentious primary.
Syracuse Mayor Stephanie Miner, a Cuomo ally turned antagonist who has taken public issue with his strategy for aiding financially pressed smaller cities, is among those mulling a challenge.
In August, The Wall Street Journal reported that actress and activist Cynthia Nixon, of "Sex and the City" fame, was doing the same.
She's yet to make a decision, but her name recognition could help build some quick momentum.
Former Democratic state senator Terry Gipson is another potential opponent.
He too -- sensing a theme here?
-- could attract support from liberal activists and, in an interview with The Auburn Citizen's Robert Harding earlier this month, took a shot at Cuomo, saying, "I am continuing to be frustrated that we live in one of the bluest states in the country and our state government continues to govern as if we live in Oklahoma."
Bottom line: a tougher-than-expected 2018 primary race could take a potential 2020 presidential bid off the table for Cuomo -- and augur trouble for similar, more moderate blue-state Democrats around the country.
7.
Rhode Island: Progressives keep chipping away Rhode Island state Rep. Aaron Regunberg State Rep. Aaron Regunberg jumped into the lieutenant governor's race in Rhode Island on Tuesday, setting up a showdown with incumbent Democrat Dan McKee.
The 27-year-old Regunberg supported Sanders in 2016 and will have the Working Families Party, one of the progressive organizations that helped lead the successful statewide charge to expand sick leave in the state, boosting his bid.
(Regunberg sponsored the House version of the leave bill.)
Gov.
Gina Raimondo, a moderate Democrat, is expected to win her 2018 re-election bid, so victory for Regunberg, viewed for now as a narrow underdog, would create an interesting dynamic in Providence -- and a chance to see if the party's two poles can get along and run a state government.
8.
Maryland governor: Slow start to a big race Benjamin Jealous Unlike New York, Maryland's gubernatorial primary is both crowded and wide-open.
Incumbent Gov.
Larry Hogan is a Republican and Democratic voters don't yet have a clear handle on his would-be challengers.
The most familiar names nationally, former NAACP president and CEO Ben Jealous and Maya Rockeymoore Cummings, a policy consultant married to Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings, haven't broken through on the state level, according to a Goucher Poll survey released last month.
Former state attorney general Doug Gansler, who registered the most potential support, took himself out of the running a week before the poll came out.
After him, Prince George's County Executive Rushern Baker scored best, with 21% saying they would consider voting for him.
Fourteen percent said the same for Jealous; Rockeymoore Cummings fell short of double-digits, at 9%.
Mostly though, voters said they needed more info, with 7 or 8 out of 10, depending on the candidate, saying they "don't know enough to judge."
Jealous' fate will attract the most national attention.
Already known for his time running the NAACP, he was among the most prominent of Sanders' big-name backers in 2016.
He is a former board member for Our Revolution, the political organization spun out of that campaign.
Jealous has their endorsement and that of the Maryland Working Families Party in 2018.
9.
Florida-7: A lefty longshot Chardo Richardson Down in Florida's 7th congressional district, former ACLU of Central Florida board president and Air Force veteran Chardo Richardson is seeking to outflank incumbent Rep. Stephanie Murphy on the left.
Richardson is a longshot still and Murphy has a significant fundraising advantage, but he comes on the scene with the backing of the Justice Democrats, a progressive group launched by Cenk Uygur of The Young Turks.
California Rep. Ro Khanna, the young organization's most prominent backer, won his seat in 2016 by knocking off a fellow Democrat, incumbent Mike Honda.
An upset here would signal a big shift -- in the direction of the party's progressive wing -- for Sunshine State Democrats.
Story highlights The White House has yet to signal whether Trump will allow a full release Trump could block the release of certain documents Washington (CNN) More than 50 years after President John F. Kennedy was killed, Americans on Thursday may finally get the US government's full accounting of his assassination.
The White House has yet to signal whether Trump would allow the full release of the government's classified documents on the assassination or instead elect to keep some files secret.
As the deadline nears, the White House did not respond to multiple requests for comment asking whether Trump planned to invoke his waiver privilege to keep some of the documents secret, as some members of the US intelligence community have privately requested.
A decision to withhold even a sliver of the documents could give conspiracy theorists more fodder to propel their claims.
Trump, for his part, once again teased the release of the documents on Wednesday, but did not make clear whether he planned on allowing the full release.
In a Saturday tweet, Trump said he would allow the release of the documents "subject to the release of further information."
Read More
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump will declare a nationwide health emergency to combat the opioid crisis at an event in the White House on Thursday, rather than issuing a national disaster declaration.
Both are forms of national emergency declarations, but the primary difference is the scope and funding for each order.
"He'll declare a national emergency," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Thursday.
"It's still considered a national emergency but your funding vehicle is different."
Trump, through the Public Health Services Act, will direct his acting secretary of health and human services to declare a nationwide health emergency, a designation that will not automatically be followed by additional federal funding for the crisis, according to a senior White House official.
Instead, the order will expand access to telemedicine in rural areas, instruct agencies to curb bureaucratic delays for dispensing grant money and shift some federal grants towards combating the crisis.
If Trump had used the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, the federal government would have been able to immediately tap into funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Disaster Relief Fund to combat opioids.
The Stafford Act, though, has traditionally been used to provide recovery money to natural disasters, most recently from Hurricanes Maria, Irma and Harvey.
Funding JUST WATCHED Will Trump's wall stem flow of drugs into US?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Will Trump's wall stem flow of drugs into US?
05:21 Both designations come with pluses and minuses, experts and senior administration officials told CNN.
The nationwide health emergency that Trump will order is more tailored and directed, but comes with less immediate action.
Senior White House officials tell CNN that they will follow up this order by working with Congress to fund the Public Health Emergency Fund and to increase federal funding in year-end budget deals currently being negotiated in Congress.
But both of those avenues are far from guaranteed, especially given all the other issues on Congress' plate.
By using the Stafford Act, Trump would have taken a dramatic step and immediately provided the federal government with money earmarked for natural disasters to combat the issue.
But both Trump and Obama administration officials say that designation would have been too broad and put an undue burden on the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Disaster Relief Fund, a fund already cash strapped by recovery efforts from the three major hurricanes that hit the United States this year.
Using FEMA funds to combat the opioid crisis would be "a little bit like asking an engineer to bake a cake," said Rafael Lemaitre, the former communications director for the White House Drug Policy Office under President Barack Obama.
"I do think the Public Health Service Act is more appropriate route to take than the Stafford Act designation," he said.
"I worked at FEMA for two years and dealt with multiple disasters.
The Stafford Act is not structured to deal with a long term, complicated public health crisis like the opioid crisis."
Tom Coderre, a former senior official in Obama's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration office at HHS, echoed that sentiment.
"One of the things that I think is the most beneficial part of having a public health emergency is you really can marshal public support and then you can bring all the resources of the federal government to bear on it, bringing people from all of the agencies to combat the issue," he said.
Though both Lemaitre and Coderre said this step was important, both agreed that it was not, in Lemaitre's words, a "silver bullet solution to the opioid crisis."
That, they said, would be additional funding from Congress.
"A smarter play here would be for the administration to move beyond this declaration and pass the billions in funding needed to address this crisis.
That is how you move the needle on this," Lemaitre said.
Fight against opioids There are also concerns in the treatment community about how other actions by the Trump administration -- namely efforts to repeal Obamacare and strip funding from Medicaid -- would adversely impact the fight against opioids.
Coderre called efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, the sweeping Obama-era health care law that mandates drug treatment services, the "elephant in the middle of the East Room today."
Trump's order on Thursday will rely heavily on the presidential commission he convened earlier this year, which in their interim report urge the President to use either the Public Health Services Act or the Stafford Act to declare a state of emergency.
"The first and most urgent recommendation of this commission is direct and completely within your control.
Declare a national emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act," wrote the commission led by New Jersey's Republican Gov.
Chris Christie.
"With approximately 142 Americans dying every day, America is enduring a death toll equal to September 11th every three weeks."
Christie heralded Trump's announcement by noting that the step was recommended by his commission.
But concerns remain about how Trump will follow through on the nationwide health emergency declaration.
"I hope the Trump administration follows through without delay to use this order to provide relief to the millions of families suffering from this crisis," said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, an Ohio Democrat.
"We cannot afford to wait months between an announcement and action."
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump , after months of promising to take sweeping action to combat opioids, will use an event at the White House on Thursday to declare the crisis a public health emergency, White House officials tell CNN.
The move is different from the broad order Trump previewed over the last few months.
The President, according to these officials, will direct acting Health Secretary Eric Hargan to declare a public health emergency under the Public Health Services Act -- which directs federal agencies to provide more grant money to combat the epidemic -- not a national emergency through the Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.
The difference between the two orders is money and scope.
If Trump had used the Stafford Act, the federal government would have been able to tap into funds from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Disaster Relief Fund to combat opioids.
A senior administration official, however, argued that the designation was not the right fit because the FEMA money is meant for natural disasters, not health emergencies.
Under the Public Health Services Act designation, no additional federal funding will automatically be directed to the crisis, said an official, but federal agencies will be directed to devote more grant money already in their budget to the problem and take "action to overcome bureaucratic delays and inefficiencies in the hiring process," according to a fact sheet on Trump's order.
The Trump administration, the official added, will work with Congress to fund the Public Health Emergency fund and to increase federal funding in year-end budget deals currently being negotiated in Congress.
The officials pushed back against the idea that Trump's order is less sweeping than what he promised.
"Under the Stafford Act, as unfortunately we have seen on multiple occasions over the last several months, the Stafford Act is deigned to respond to mostly natural disasters that are (of a) very short time duration and a specific geographic region," one official said, adding that the Trump administration believed the order under the Public Health Services Act is "a better use."
Trump's order will last 90 days and, according to another official, can be renewed every 90 days until the President believes it is no longer needed.
Since 1999, the number of American overdose deaths involving opioids has quadrupled.
From 2000 to 2015, more than 500,000 people died of drug overdoses, and opioids account for the majority of those.
Recently released numbers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that around 64,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2016.
Trump, after campaigning for president in part on fighting the scourge of opioid addiction, has long teased sweeping action.
The President told reporters in August that he would designate the epidemic a "national emergency" but failed to follow through.
The lack of action, treatment advocates said, has deprived the fight against the deadly drugs a designation that would offer states and federal agencies more resources and power.
During an impromptu press conference in the White House Rose Garden last week, Trump said that he would officially declare the national emergency when asked why he had not followed through with his initial pledge.
"We are going to have a major announcement, probably next week, on the drug crisis and on the opioid massive problem and I want to get that absolutely right," Trump said, billing the official declaration as a large step that took time.
And speaking with reporters on the South Lawn of the White House on Wednesday, Trump said he would have a "very big meeting on opioids" on Thursday and will be declaring the opioid epidemic a national emergency "in the very near future."
Public health emergency vs. national emergency The primary difference between the two designations is access to funding.
The designation Trump will announce Thursday does not allow the federal government to tap into FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund and it is an open question whether Congress will offer more money to fund the Public Health Emergency fund, which Congress has not funded in recent years.
But multiple Obama administration health officials told CNN that they believe using the Public Health Services Act is the more appropriate avenue.
Using FEMA funds to combat the opioid crisis would be "a little bit like asking an engineer to bake a cake," said Rafael Lemaitre, the former communications director for the White House Drug Policy Office under Obama.
"I do think the public health service act is more appropriate route to take than the Stafford Act designation," he said.
"I worked at FEMA for two years and dealt with multiple disasters.
The Stafford Act is not structured to deal with a long term, complicated public health crisis like the opioid crisis."
Lemaitre added that FEMA's fund is "already running on fumes because of the three hurricanes" that hit this year.
Tom Coderre, a former senior official under in Obama's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration office at HHS, echoed that sentiment.
"One of the things that I think is most beneficial part of having a public health emergency is you really can marshal public support and then you can bring all the resources of the federal government to bear on it, bringing people from all of the agencies to combat the issue," he said.
Though both Lemaitre and Coderre said this step was important, both argued that it was not a "silver bullet solution to the opioid crisis."
That, they said, would be additional funding from Congress.
"A smarter play here would be for the administration to move beyond this declaration and pass the billions in funding needed to address this crisis.
That is how you move the needle on this," Lemaitre said.
2016 election Trump, shortly after taking office, convened a White House commission to study the problem and provide recommendations.
Earlier this year, despite then-Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price saying it wasn't needed, the commission recommended Trump declare a national emergency using either the Public Health Services Act or the Stafford Act.
"I commend the President on the bold action he is taking today by adopting the first recommendation" the commission made, New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie, the head of the panel, said Thursday.
The businessman-turned-politician made combating the opioid epidemic a top priority during the 2016 campaign.
The issue was elevated to such importance that during the closing moments of Trump's 2016 campaign -- when time is at its most precious -- the Republican nominee headlined an opioid roundtable where he met face-to-face with those directly impacted by the issue.
"I just want to let the people of New Hampshire know that I'm with you 1,000%, you really taught me a lot," he said before promising to help people who "are so seriously addicted."
His actions as president, though, have left even members of his own commission with concerns.
Former Rep. Patrick Kennedy, a member of the President's commission on opioid addiction, told CNN on Wednesday that he worries the President and his administration are using the opioid epidemic for photo ops.
"We don't want any more photo-ops," the former Democratic congressman from Rhode Island said.
"I'm just speaking as an advocate, in this fight every single day as someone who is in recovery and someone who is an advocate.
We don't want any more visits to rehab centers and photo-ops, saying how courageous we are.
Enough already.
We want to save lives."
Story highlights First Lady Melania Trump to speak about her interactions with people affected by opioid abuse Melania Trump in October held listening session at a West Virginia opioid recovery center (CNN) Thursday afternoon at the White House, first lady Melania Trump is scheduled to take the podium for remarks prior to President Donald Trump at an announcement to officially declare the opioid crisis in America a public health emergency.
A White House official told CNN the first lady's speech will "have a very personal tone," and reflect the stories of the people she has met who have been personally affected by opioid addiction and "what they have taught her."
Trump has recently shown an interest in using her platform as first lady to advocate for children and families whose lives have been affected by addiction.
Last month, she led her first policy roundtable discussion at the White House on the topic, attended by addiction experts, families changed by the crisis, and New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie, who is chairman of President's Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis.
Newark, New Jersey (CNN) The legal team for Dr. Salomon Melgen, the co-defendant in the bribery trial of New Jersey Democratic Sen. Bob Menendez, indicated Thursday morning it may to move for a mistrial.
The defense team Thursday attempted to call Perkins Coie attorney Marc Elias -- who was retained for a Senate ethics inquiry into Menendez that began in 2012.
Lawyers wanted to put him up to help explain issues surrounding Menendez's Senate disclosure forms, which prosecutors say failed to include years' worth of free plane rights the senator took on a wealthy eye doctor's private jet.
But the prosecution objected to the testimony as inadmissible hearsay and irrelevant, and Judge William Walls agreed after lengthy arguments.
Melgen's defense attorney Kirk Ogrosky then told Walls he had not spoken to Menendez defense attorney Abbe Lowell, but they may be moving for a mistrial after having reviewed the record in this case and the preclusion of Elias.
Story highlights Biden and Lady Gaga release video on Twitter for "It's On Us" campaign Former vice president said "its on everyone" to prevent sexual assault Washington (CNN) Lady Gaga and former Vice President Joe Biden are teaming up again to advocate against sexual assault, releasing a PSA as part of the "It's On Us" campaign started by Biden and former President Barack Obama.
"Lady Gaga has been the voice for people who have been forgotten, the people who have been abused -- until it happens to you," he said in the video shared on Lady Gaga's Twitter account Wednesday.
"Well, it happened to her, and she's shown enormous courage and we want to make it real clear: It's on us, it's on everyone to intervene to stop abuse when they see it and when they hear about it to intervene."
Lady Gaga, a sexual assault survivor, said she and Biden wanted to remind people that "it's important to reach out to someone in your life that you can trust, and to know that they will be there to help you."
At the 2016 Oscars ceremony, Biden appeared in a telecast to introduce Lady Gaga's performance of her song, "'Til it Happens to You," an original song about sexual assault.
Biden has been an outspoken proponent for campus sexual assault awareness, leading the Obama administration's efforts to urge greater awareness of the topic.
Obama and Biden started the "It's On Us" campaign in 2014 in recognition of the issue.
Read More
Over the years, those theories sprawled, and the government made some of its document hoard public.
Seeking to settle the matter once and for all, Congress passed a law 25 years ago mandating the government release all its documents and giving agencies a long window to keep sensitive information secret.
And this Thursday, in pursuant with the JFK Records Act, the remaining few thousand secret government documents relating to the assassination -- from a total that once made up millions -- will see the light of day, barring a block from President Donald Trump.
The White House has yet to confirm Trump won't block them, but Trump tweeted his excitement on Wednesday -- as he headed to Dallas for a fundraiser -- saying it is "so interesting!"
The long anticipated release of the #JFKFiles will take place tomorrow.
So interesting!
The National Archives sought to temper expectations, warning the most explosive documents have likely already been released, but the deadline of the JFK Records Act, set 25 years ago, could breathe oxygen into some of the many competing theories.
After Kennedy's death, President Lyndon Johnson ordered an independent inquiry into it and named Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren to lead that team, known as the Warren Commission.
The commission's historic report declared Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone and without assistance to kill Kennedy before Jack Ruby murdered Oswald while in custody.
Oswald was a former Marine who moved to the Soviet Union for a few years before coming back to the US.
His association with communist elements and brief trip to Mexico City shortly before he appeared in Dallas are of interest for those who plan to sift through the unreleased files.
The Warren Commission report continues to face heavy skepticism from people advocating alternative theories, and a poll taken around the 50th anniversary of the Kennedy assassination showed the majority believed more than one person was involved, showing popular suspicion for the idea Oswald acted alone.
Here are a handful of the most popular and well-known conspiracy theories about the assassination: Multiple shooters The House of Representatives Select Committee on Assassinations report also concluded Oswald fired on Kennedy, killing the President, but differing with the Warren Commission, the House report said there was a "high probability" that two gunmen fired at Kennedy, offering skeptics of the Warren Commission endless fodder.
The term "grassy knoll" now recalls the theory that Kennedy's killer was not necessarily Oswald, but instead a man firing from the ground along the route of Kennedy's presidential motorcade.
Trump world finger-pointing Trump's longtime associate Roger Stone is a passionate conspiracy theorist, who now works for the fringe, far-right website InfoWars.
Stone is an advocate for the full release of the files and authored a book pointing the blame for the assassination at Kennedy's vice president and successor, Lyndon Johnson.
North Carolina Republican Rep. Walter Jones, a leading congressional advocate for the full release of the files, told CNN he spoke with Stone about pressing Trump not to block the disclosure.
And like his friend Stone, Trump himself has tossed out his thoughts on the assassination, pointing during the campaign to Sen. Ted Cruz's father -- without evidence -- as someone potentially involved.
CIA involvement One of the most popular theories, and one featured in popular culture from Oliver Stone's film "JFK" to Don DeLillo's novel "Libra," is the idea the CIA or people associated with the CIA were involved in some way in the Kennedy assassination.
Some theories go far enough to suggest a CIA-affiliated person fired the deadly shot, while others state the CIA or other government agencies had knowledge there would be an attempt on Kennedy's life and, by not acting, they were complicit in the murder.
Rep. Jones suggested he belongs to the camp that believes there was likely some agency involvement or inaction and said he believes the release could help settle the matter.
"The government owes the American people the truth," Jones said.
"And if you were complicit then so be it.
'Fess up to it."
The House report said the CIA "was deficient in its collection and sharing of information both prior to and subsequent to the assassination."
Castro's revenge When Fidel Castro led a communist revolution in Cuba, the US recoiled as the ideological brethren of its Cold War enemies found a foothold not far off from its own shores.
Kennedy greenlit an operation, known as the Bay of Pigs, early on in his presidency, in a failed attempt to topple the Castro government.
Incidentally, the botched operation, among other things, led Kennedy to criticize the CIA, and a New York Times report quoted Kennedy as saying he wanted "to splinter the CIA in a thousand pieces and scatter it to the winds."
After the Bay of Pigs and the Cuban Missile Crisis, the US continued plotting to kill Castro for years, including trying to poison the autocrat's cigars.
Given the potential motive and Oswald's communist leanings, one theory posits Castro had a hand in the killing.
For his part, the now-deceased Castro reportedly said after the killing: "This is bad news."
Mafia members One theory pulls away some of the Cold War mystique and the potentially crazed lone wolf idea.
Instead, it posits the Kennedy assassination was a mafia hit, although possibly one with CIA complicity.
Kennedy appointed his brother Robert as attorney general, and the younger Kennedy made going after organized crime one of his top priorities.
Moreover, Castro's revolution pushed out elements in Cuba that were friendly to mafia interests.
The House investigation said its evidence showed the mafia was not involved in the assassination, but would not rule out the involvement of members of the mafia.
Kennedy was not the target Kennedy was not alone in Dallas.
First lady Jackie Kennedy was by his side, as was Democratic Texas Gov.
John Connally.
The governor also took fire when Kennedy was killed, and one theory says Oswald meant to kill the governor, not Kennedy.
Washington (CNN) Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper on Wednesday disputed President Donald Trump's characterization of the now-infamous dossier of allegations about the President and Russia.
When asked on CNN's "Erin Burnett OutFront" about Trump calling the document a "fake" dossier, Clapper responded, "I don't think that is an accurate characterization for the entirety of the dossier."
The dossier helped fuel the ongoing investigations into Russia's efforts to influence last year's election and allegations of collusion by Trump associates, including the special counsel probe led by Former FBI Director Robert Mueller.
CNN reported in February that investigators had been able to corroborate some information in the dossier, although not the most salacious allegations.
The law firm that represented the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee this week acknowledged its clients' role in paying for opposition research on Trump that helped fund the dossier.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Touted as the world's most technologically advanced fast attack submarine, the USS South Dakota is set to join the US Navy fleet amid a growing threat to American undersea dominance from several foreign rivals.
Operating beneath the ocean's surface, a submarine's strategic value is often tied directly to its ability to navigate in or near enemy waters without being detected to conduct reconnaissance or attack missions.
For years, the United States has maintained a technological edge over the submarines developed by rival nations, but recent advances made by Russia and China have sparked concerns of an emerging threat to American undersea superiority.
Christened earlier this month , the nuclear-powered USS South Dakota marks the US Navy's latest effort to maintain that edge and provides a technological blueprint for future development.
The Navy's 70-boat submarine fleet is made up of three major types of boats: ballistic-missile submarines, attack submarines, and cruise-missile submarines.
Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The USS Michigan, an Ohio-class guided-missile submarine, arrives in Busan, South Korea, for a routine port visit in December 2010.
Click through the gallery to see some of the other subs in the U.S. Navy's fleet.
Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet A dolphin swims in front of the Virginia-class attack submarine USS John Warner during its sea trials in May 2015.
Virginia-class subs, displacing 7,800 tons and at 377 feet long, "are designed to seek and destroy enemy submarines and surface ships; project power ashore with Tomahawk cruise missiles and special operation forces (SOF); carry out inntelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) missions; support battle group operations; and engage in mine warfare," according to the Navy.
Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Ohio-class guided-missile submarine USS Georgia (SSGN 729) departs Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay to conduct routine operations in October 2015.
Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The USS Seawolf, shown here in support of European operations in June 2015, is the lead vessel in the three-boat Seawolf class.
The Seawolf and the USS Connecticut, the second boat in the class, displace 9,138 tons and are 353 feet long.
Click to the next slide to learn more about the third sub in the class, the USS Jimmy Carter.
Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Seawolf-class attack submarine USS Jimmy Carter is moored in a Washington state facility that reduces a ship's electromagnetic signature in 2006.
The Jimmy Carter is 100 feet longer than the first two subs in its class.
The extra space is for a "multimission platform," the Navy says.
"This hull section provides for additional payloads to accommodate advanced technology used to carry out classified research and development and for enhanced warfighting capabilities."
Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The U.S. Navy has more than a dozen ballistic missile submarines, also called boomers, in service.
The boomers, 560 feet long, can carry 24 nuclear-armed Trident II ballistic missiles and serve as nuclear deterrents.
Here, the Ohio-class ballistic-missile submarine USS West Virginia departs a naval shipyard in 2013.
Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Ohio-class guided-missile submarine USS Ohio transits Puget Sound, Washington, in June 2015.
The Ohio and three other guided-missile subs -- USS Florida, USS Michigan and USS Georgia -- were originally built and deployed as ballistic-missile subs, but were converted to guided-missile platforms beginning in 2002 after the Navy concluded it had a surplus of the boomers.
Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: U.S. Navy's submarine fleet The Los Angeles-class attack submarine USS Hampton surfaces through Arctic ice in March 2014.
The Los Angeles-class is the biggest in the Navy's sub fleet, with a few dozen in commission.
These subs displace 6,900 tons and are 360 feet long.
The class was introduced in 1976.
Hide Caption 8 of 8 The Navy currently fields 17 Virginia-class fast attack submarines, which are built to operate in the world's littoral and deep waters.
Virginia-class submarines can launch torpedoes at other submarines and at ships.
They can also launch missiles at ground targets, gather intelligence, and deploy Navy SEAL units for special operations.
"Their inherent stealth, endurance, mobility and firepower directly enable them to support five of the six maritime strategy core capabilities -- sea control, power projection, forward presence, maritime security and deterrence," the Navy said.
Incorporating "acoustic superiority" that is expected to provide unparalleled stealth capability, the USS South Dakota will be used as a "demonstrator to prove out advanced technologies," according to Navy spokesperson Lt. Seth Clarke.
Lessons learned from South Dakota will be incorporated into later Virginia-class submarines -- "increasing our undersea domain advantage, ensuring our dominance through the midcentury and beyond," Clarke said.
The nuclear-powered USS South Dakota marks the US Navy's latest effort to maintain undersea superiority.
"Stealth capability is one of the crucial advantages of submarines ... the Virginia-class brings capability and capacity that is so crucial as we head into potential peer conflict down the road."
according to Randy Forbes, a former US representative who served as chairman of the Seapower and Projection Forces subcommittee of the House Armed Services Committee while in Congress.
The 360-foot USS South Dakota is scheduled to officially enter the fleet in August 2018.
The Navy plans to upgrade its Virginia-class boats while developing the next-generation, nuclear-armed Columbia-class.
One of those upgrades includes outfitting Virginia-class submarines with additional "Virginia Payload Modules" for Tomahawk or next-generation missiles to provide more strike capacity.
Most Virginia-class submarines currently feature two Virginia Payload Tubes, each capable of launching six Tomahawk cruise missiles, according to the Navy.
Expected to be operational by 2024 or 2025, that added firepower will help fill the gap as the Navy plans to retire several of its aging fast-attack and ballistic-missile submarines in coming years, according to Jerry Hendrix, a retired Navy captain and senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security.
Brewing submarine rivalry Forbes said the United States has traditionally been able to track foreign submarines but recent advancements made by the Chinese and Russians highlight the need for developments like those seen on the USS South Dakota to maintain American undersea dominance.
Russia has invested heavily in developing its own underwater stealth capabilities in recent years and their submarine technology is approaching the level of the US fleet, much like the peer-to-peer comparison seen during the Cold War, according to one congressional aide familiar with the issue.
While the Russian military is not necessarily building a large quantity of submarines, it is developing boats with advanced quieting capabilities that are "very competitive" with those in the US fleet, said Hendrix.
"Russia is modernizing its existing fleet of Oscar-class multipurpose attack nuclear submarines and producing their next generation Severodvinsk Yasen-class," US Pacific Command chief Adm. Harry Harris told the House Armed Services Committee earlier this year.
"The Russians are making a leverage investment ... with submarines you don't have to build a lot of them," according to Hendrix.
The United States has also recently noticed an uptick in Russian submarine activity -- conducting "spurts" of heavy patrols across various regions, according to the aide and a US Navy official.
"They can't maintain the presence we do with 24/7 operations, but this activity is meant to push the boundary and to see what the US reaction will be," the aide said.
But while the United States continues to monitor foreign submarine activity, the increase in Russian patrols is widely viewed as presence and testing maneuvers that do not pose an immediate military threat.
It's something the United States should be reacting to but not overreacting to, the congressional aide told CNN.
In 2016, US Navy commanders told CNN that Russian submarines had become increasing assertive in the Atlantic Ocean and that their undersea activity was reaching levels unseen for decades.
The commander of the USS Missouri submarine, Fraser Hudson, assessed at the time that the renewed Russian activity is not just "a political statement but the Russians are seeking to gain experience in case hostilities were ever to break out between it and the United States.
"Honestly, I think it's operational experience.
You maintain the experience in those (areas of responsibility) so that if anything were ever to happen, they have experience," he said last year.
A Russian sub also turned up off the coast of Florida in 2012, and the USS Missouri was called on to track it.
JUST WATCHED U.S. Navy alarmed by Russian submarine buildup Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH U.S. Navy alarmed by Russian submarine buildup 03:01 In addition to flexing their military muscle in an attempt to show "they still are or want to be a dominant super power," the Russians are also trying to test whether their submarines can travel for long periods without being detected, according to the aide.
"The Russians are probably at about 80% of the capacity they were at during the Cold War," according to Forbes, who also noted that they are constantly pushing the envelope in terms of capability.
China, on the other hand, is opting for a quantity over quality approach when it comes to building up its own submarine fleet.
"The Chinese are not as advanced but are getting there and they are producing diesel submarines in numbers," the congressional aide told CNN.
"In the end, numbers are a capability in themselves."
Hendrix also noted that there is no indication the submarines being developed by China are close to being as advanced as those in the US arsenal but warned their approach of producing a large number of boats does pose a threat.
"Quantity can have a quality," Hendrix said.
In addition to adding to the size of its submarine fleet, Harris warned earlier this year that they are also advancing their undersea capability.
JUST WATCHED Navy sub emerges from under Arctic ice Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Navy sub emerges from under Arctic ice 00:55 "China is improving the lethality and survivability of its attack submarines and building quieter, high-end diesel and nuclear-powered submarines," he said.
Both China and Russia have also increased their presence in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, where Harris said 230 of the world's 400 foreign submarines are operating.
Roughly 160 of those 230 submarines belong to China, North Korea, and Russia, according to Harris.
Forbes said the United States must also develop a strategy to counter Chinese and Russian activity in "gray zones" where they are incrementally expanding their presence by strategically "fighting and competing" through military posturing.
China's claims in the South China Sea represent one glaring example as to how they've been able to successfully implement this type of strategy in a way that allows them to expand their military reach without engaging in direct confrontation, according to Forbes.
Forbes also explained that the United States has yet to develop a coherent strategy to counter Russian and Chinese gray zone activity -- a challenge that will require both the Navy and Congress to reconsider the way it utilizes American sea power.
"Major strategy is not some secret play you pull out in the fourth quarter of a football game," Forbes said, adding that if US military leaders don't articulate a strategy to Congress there is no way a plan will be implemented.
Emerging challenges By most accounts, the United States still maintains the most capable submarine fleet in the world, but while the addition of the USS South Dakota represents a leap forward in technological advancement, some argue the Navy still faces challenges.
Despite President Donald Trump's request for additional defense spending, years of budget cuts and continuing resolutions have had a severe impact on the Navy's maintenance and shipbuilding efforts.
The Navy plans to build 30 Virginia-class submarines and replace its 14 aging Ohio-class boats with 12 Columbia-class submarines, the first of which is expected in fiscal year 2021.
In March 2016, the Government Accountability Office reported that total program acquisition costs will be about $97 billion, including $12 billion for research and development and $85.1 billion for procurement.
There are also discussions about extending deployments and service lives for existing submarines to help make up the difference.
But even if the Navy is able to achieve its goal of producing two or three new fast-attack boats per year, the service will only have 41 attack submarines by 2029, according to the Navy's FY17 30-year plan An attack submarine inventory of 41 boats falls well short of the 65 to 70 boats needed to effectively maintain undersea dominance, according to Hendrix.
Harris told the House Armed Services Committee earlier this year that he agrees with assessments indicating a need for 66 fast attack submarines.
The need to continuously upgrade submarine stealth capabilities also presents a challenge for the Navy, according to Forbes, who said there comes a time when the cost for another decibel of quietness becomes too expensive.
Increased costs and the development of new detection techniques that do not rely on the sound a submarine makes could change the way the US Navy thinks about undersea warfare, according to Forbes.
"If we can't make up the numbers we will have to move to a different way of fighting," Forbes said, adding that the current strategic mindset revolves around "one-on-one" submarine combat.
"In the future, submarines may have to fight more like an aircraft carrier," he said, describing a system in which submarines are complemented by a variety of unmanned platforms.
(CNN) The head of a data analytics company linked to the Trump campaign contacted WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in 2016 regarding thousands of Hillary Clinton's emails kept on a private server while she was secretary of state, according to four sources familiar with the outreach.
Alexander Nix, the chief executive of Cambridge Analytica, sent an email to several people including top Donald Trump donor Rebekah Mercer, relaying that he had emailed Assange seeking access to emails from Clinton's private server to turn them into a searchable database for the campaign or a pro-Trump political action committee, two of the sources said.
Cambridge Analytica was hired in the summer of 2016 as part of the Trump campaign's three-pronged data operation, which was led by Brad Parscale and overseen by Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner.
No one from the Trump campaign was copied on the email, the sources said.
Nix sent the email in summer 2016, two sources said, but it is not clear whether he sent it before or after Cambridge Analytica was brought onto the campaign.
The attempt at collaboration raises fresh questions about the willingness of people associated with the Trump campaign to work with Wikileaks for political gain.
The site, which publishes leaked documents, released hacked emails in July from the Democratic National Committee and in October from Clinton campaign chair John Podesta.
US intelligence has said the Podesta emails were stolen by Russia and handed over to WikiLeaks through an intermediary.
News of the email exchange comes amid federal investigations into whether there was collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
Parscale, the Trump campaign's digital director, was interviewed Tuesday by the House intelligence committee as part of that inquiry.
The 33,000 emails deleted from Clinton's private server have never materialized.
Nix and Cambridge Analytica, which is backed by Robert Mercer and his daughter Rebekah, did not respond to requests for comment.
After the Daily Beast report published, the Trump campaign issued a statement by campaign executive director Michael S. Glassner: "Once President Trump secured the nomination in 2016, one of the most important decisions we made was to partner with the Republican National Committee on data analytics.
Leading into the election, the RNC had invested in the most sophisticated data targeting program in modern American in history, which helped secure our victory in the fall.
We were proud to have worked with the RNC and its data experts and relied on them as our main source for data analytics.
We as a campaign made the choice to rely on the voter data of the Republican National Committee to help elect President Donald J. Trump.
Any claims that voter data from any other source played a key role in the victory are false."
The statement does not address contacts between Cambridge Analytica and WikiLeaks.
In Parscale's congressional interview, he denied there was any Russian collusion with the campaign's digital operations, according to two sources familiar with the matter.
Many of the committee's questions for Parscale were about the campaign's work with Cambridge Analytica, the sources said.
The committee asked the digital firm for documents earlier this month, and Cambridge Analytica said it was cooperating.
Parscale downplayed the campaign's connections to Cambridge Analytica, one of the sources said.
He began working for the Trump Organization's digital team in early 2015 before Trump officially announced his plan to run for office.
Parscale and employees from his firm, Giles-Parscale, incorporated some staffers from Cambridge Analytica into their data operation.
They also worked with teams from data companies that were partnering with the Republican National Committee.
In July 2016, Trump called on Russia to find the emails.
"Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 e-mails that are missing.
I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.
Let's see if that happens.
That'll be next," Trump said in a news conference.
News of the outreach comes after an earlier disclosure that a Republican operative, Peter W. Smith, had been on the hunt for Clinton's missing emails during the campaign.
Smith spoke to The Wall Street Journal in May , saying he and the colleagues he enlisted found five groups of hackers claiming to have 33,000 deleted emails from the private server Clinton used during her tenure as secretary of state.
He said that he determined two of the groups were Russian.
"We knew the people who had these were probably around the Russian government," Smith told the Journal.
Smith was found dead of an apparent suicide weeks after the interview.
Steve Bannon, Trump's former White House chief strategist, was vice president and secretary of Cambridge Analytica until he stepped down to run the Trump campaign in August 2016, according to The New York Times .
The Mercers are investors in Breitbart News, the far-right site where Bannon served as executive chairman before he ran Trump's campaign.
Political strategist Roger Stone, Trump's long-time confidant, had boasted during the campaign of knowledge about upcoming Wikileaks publication of damaging documents, at one point telling the Boston Herald Radio that he expected "Julian Assange and the Wikileaks people to drop a payload of new documents on a weekly basis fairly soon.
And that of course will answer the question of exactly what was erased on that email server."
An attorney for Stone told CNN, "Mr. Stone has complied with the committee's requests.
No further statement will be issued."
After the hearing, Stone said he answered the committee's questions other than revealing the identity of his intermediary because that person was a journalist and the conversation was off the record.
"I'm not going to burn somebody I spoke to off the record," Stone said.
"If he releases me, if he allows me to release it, I would be happy to give it to the committee.
I'm actually going to try to do that."
Stone has previously denied any contact with Assange and any advanced notice of WikiLeaks release of emails belonging to Podesta.
Washington (CNN) The Justice Department has given a former FBI informant the green light to testify before Congress about what he learned in an investigation of Russian nuclear industry efforts to buy uranium in the United States during the Obama administration.
The news that the former informant will be allowed to testify comes as House Republicans announced a probe into the circumstances surrounding the sale of a Canadian uranium mining company, Uranium One, to Russia's Atomic Energy Agency, Rosatom, that was approved by the Obama administration in 2010.
The deal had to be approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a committee that is composed of representatives from several US government agencies, including the State Department, which at the time was led by Hillary Clinton.
The Justice Department on Wednesday authorized the former informant to disclose to the chairmen and ranking members of the Senate judiciary, House oversight and House intelligence committees, as well as one member of each of their staffs, "any information or documents he has concerning alleged corruption or bribery involving transactions in the uranium market, including but not limited to anything related to Vadim Mikerin, Rosatom, Tenex, Uranium One, or the Clinton Foundation," Justice Department spokeswoman Sarah Isgur Flores confirmed in a statement.
According to The Hill , the former informant, who had signed a nondisclosure agreement with the FBI, had worked undercover gathering intelligence on the Russian industry's attempt to build its nuclear energy business in the United States.
Read More
Story highlights Gloria Borger writes that Republican voters have made it very clear: their party is now the party of Trump Voters have more faith in the President than in the GOP-controlled Congress, Borger writes (CNN) Back in the summer of 2016, I interviewed then-RNC chairman Reince Priebus for a documentary about Donald Trump.
He was firmly planted in Camp Trump, readying to unite the party around its candidate during the convention.
But when I asked the simple question, "Is this now the party of Trump?"
Priebus called the question "very off-putting."
Why?
Because, he said, "it wouldn't be the party of Bush ... it's not the party of Romney.
It's the Republican Party.
We exist -- the nominees come and go.
They're the temporary recipients of support.
The Republican Party is not the personal property of temporary recipients of our support.
We exist.
We're the party.
We're here.
They want to join us.
We're not competing to join them.
I don't buy that."
But that was then.
Just over nine months into Donald Trump's term, it's clear that the calculus has completely changed.
The Republican party now is the Party of Trump.
Republican voters have made that very clear, no matter how much pushback they get from retiring Republican senators and a former Republican President.
By a 2-1 margin, Republican voters trust Trump more than they trust congressional Republicans.
He has an 82% approval rating in the party, and by an almost 3-1 margin, GOP voters like the way he's handling his relationship with members of Congress.
Translation: Give 'em hell, Donny.
And Trump has made it just as clear he isn't interested in joining whatever GOP conglomerate existed before.
The party -- his new party -- has "great unity."
His agenda is their agenda.
His lunch with Senate Republicans the other day was a "love fest."
After all, there was applause.
And the President loves applause.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Hillary Clinton was unaware of the now-infamous dossier of allegations about Donald Trump and Russia prior to Buzzfeed's publishing of the document earlier this year, a source familiar with the matter has told CNN.
Clinton was disappointed that the research from the document was not made public before she lost the 2016 election, the source said.
The New York Times first reported on Wednesday that Clinton didn't know about the dossier until it was published, citing two associates who discussed the matter with her.
The news comes a day after the law firm representing the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee acknowledged it helped fund opposition research on President Donald Trump that ultimately resulted in the dossier.
CNN reported Tuesday that a source familiar with the matter said the law firm retained the intelligence firm Fusion GPS and entered "into an engagement for research services that began in April 2016 and concluded before the election in early November."
CNN has previously reported that the Fusion efforts researching Trump were first funded by Republican foes of Trump, and Democrats began paying the research firm later on, after Trump became the presumptive nominee.
The identity of the Republican client or clients has not yet been publicly revealed.
Clinton is not the only high-profile Democrat to deny knowledge of the document before it was published.
The Clinton campaign's national press secretary, Brian Fallon, tweeted Tuesday about the reported tie between the campaign and the dossier.
"I regret I didn't know about Christopher Steele's hiring pre-election," he tweeted , referring to the former British intelligence agent who authored the dossier.
"If I had, I would have volunteered to go to Europe and try to help him."
"If I'd gotten his dossier before Nov 8, I may have tried to convince Mook & Podesta to let me hold a Comey-style press conference to read it," Fallon, who is now a CNN political contributor, tweeted DNC communications director Xochitl Hinojosa said in a statement Tuesday: "Tom Perez and the new leadership of the DNC were not involved in any decision-making regarding Fusion GPS, nor were they aware that Perkins Coie was working with the organization."
"But let's be clear, there is a serious federal investigation into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia, and the American public deserves to know what happened," the statement read.
Trump also made mention of the dossier this week , calling Clinton's and others' denial of having any knowledge of it a "disgrace."
"Hillary Clinton always denied it.
The Democrats always denied it, and now, only because it is going to come out in a court case, they said yes they did it.
They admitted it and they are embarrassed by it.
I think it is a disgrace," Trump said Wednesday.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misspelled Fusion GPS.
Washington (CNN) The Virginia governor's race has turned into a culture war -- and President Donald Trump has jumped right in.
Democratic and Republican operatives worried about their party's fortunes in the 2018 midterms are watching closely to see whether a GOP campaign using controversial tactics aimed at solidifying support from white voters can top a Democratic campaign that is concerned about minority turnout.
Republican Ed Gillespie for weeks has aired television ads featuring scary images of MS-13 gang members -- an opening to accuse Democrat Ralph Northam of being weak on immigration enforcement.
Now, less than two weeks from a November 7 election that will be seen nationally as a barometer of Trump's popularity and performance, and a testing ground for midterm messages, Gillespie, a former Republican National Committee chair and George W. Bush adviser, is turning his focus in a new ad to a debate over Confederate monuments.
He has supported keeping the monuments in place with additional context, while Northam, the state's lieutenant governor, has called for them to be moved to museums.
"I'm for keeping them up and he's for taking them down.
And that's a big difference in November," Gillespie says in the ad Trump emphasized Virginia's Confederate statues Thursday morning, tweeting : "Ed Gillespie will turn the really bad Virginia economy #'s around, and fast.
Strong on crime, he might even save our great statues/heritage!"
Ed Gillespie will turn the really bad Virginia economy #'s around, and fast.
Strong on crime, he might even save our great statues/heritage!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 26, 2017 The President's economic arguments could fall flat in a state where the unemployment rate is below the national average and voters have consistently told pollsters the state, under Democratic Gov.
Terry McAuliffe, is generally on the right track, while the nation is on the wrong track.
But his comments about statues and crime get at the Gillespie campaign's core messages aimed at energizing Trump voters who otherwise might not turn out to vote for a longtime lobbyist and figure of the GOP establishment.
"Ed Gillespie will be a great Governor of Virginia.
His opponent doesn't even show up to meetings/work, and will be VERY weak on crime!"
Trump said in a second tweet Tactics being watched The race -- and Gillespie's tactics in particular -- have given national Republican and Democratic operatives a lot to examine as they approach the 2018 midterm elections.
The ads began six weeks ago as Gillespie's campaign searched for ways to win over Trump's supporters -- many of whom supported Corey Stewart, Trump's former state campaign chairman -- in the primary without latching Gillespie too closely to the President himself.
Trump is unpopular with many of the suburban northern Virginia voters Gillespie will need to win what polls show will be a tight race.
CNN spoke to several Republican and Democratic operatives involved in the 2018 campaigns, all of whom were not authorized to speak publicly and asked not to be named.
The Republicans said they see Gillespie's MS-13 ads as a way to make campaigns about security.
One operative compared Gillespie's campaign to that of Georgia Republican Rep. Karen Handel.
Handel hammered Democrat Jon Ossoff on national security issues en route to winning a special congressional election in Atlanta's northern suburbs this spring.
"That is where Republicans can draw the starkest contrast," another Republican involved in 2018 campaigns said.
Democrats working on 2018 races, meanwhile, say they are curious to see how Gillespie performs in suburban areas that have similar demographics to some of the most competitive House districts.
Their hope is that Gillespie went too far with over-the-top ads.
And there's evidence Gillespie's campaign is aware it risked alienating some voters with ads that Latino and immigration groups have denounced: Florida Sen. Marco Rubio and New Mexico Gov.
Susana Martinez will campaign with Gillespie next week.
Can Democrats get minorities to vote?
Virginia Democrats are chiefly concerned that African-American turnout will lag in the off-year election -- a worry that's fueling their actions, too.
Days after former President Barack Obama drew thousands to a Northam rally in Richmond, two more prominent black Democrats -- California Sen. Kamala Harris and former Attorney General Eric Holder -- will hold Virginia events this weekend.
Northam's campaign has spent $3.5 million on phone calls and door-knocking efforts to reach minority voters.
He has also spent heavily on radio and mail ads targeting black voters.
This week, the state Democratic Party sent voters a mailer that features Gillespie and Trump superimposed over an image of the tiki torch-carrying neo-Nazis who caused chaos in Charlottesville.
"Virginia gets to stand up to hate," the mailer says.
Gillespie said in August that the white supremacists "have no place" in Virginia.
But he didn't criticize Trump's suggestion that "many sides" were to blame -- which is the basis of the Democratic mailer.
"For 73 days, Ed Gillespie has refused to call out Donald Trump's response to Charlottesville for what it was: disheartening and wrong," said Northam spokesman David Turner.
"When the Charlottesville community wanted leadership to help them heal, he failed.
Ed Gillespie should be willing to call out Donald Trump when he's wrong, and because he won't, he gives voters a clear choice on November 7."
Gillespie's campaign did not respond to CNN's request for comment, but Gillespie campaign manager Chris Leavitt told The Washington Post that Northam "should be ashamed" of the mailer.
"To now see Ralph Northam and the Democratic ticket exploit imagery from that tragic weekend to try to score political points is both outrageous and beneath the dignity of the offices they seek," he said.
Democrats also believe Gillespie's ads -- particularly those targeting Northam over current Democratic Gov.
Terry McAuliffe's moves to automatically restore felons' voting rights -- are designed to prey on racial fears.
But after the coalition that carried Obama to victory twice failed to push Clinton to victory in 2016, Democrats fear that the party can't inspire minority voters without Obama on the ballot.
"Off-year elections, midterm elections -- Democrats, sometimes, y'all get a little sleepy.
You get a little complacent," Obama said in Richmond.
"And so as a consequence, folks wake up and they're surprised -- 'How come we can't get things through Congress?
How come we can't get things through the state house?'"
Obama said.
"Because you slept through the election."
Washington (CNN) Top Senate Republicans are pledging to find out if the White House is intentionally delaying new sanctions on Moscow as the Trump administration is several weeks past a congressionally-imposed deadline to identify top Russian officials involved in political cybermeddling.
"We're going to check into it," Republican Sen. Bob Corker, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, told CNN Wednesday.
"I will find out in the next 24 hours.
I'm going to get on the phone with someone and find out."
Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, who chairs the Senate Armed Services Committee, said the administration is acting "as if they are unilateral."
"We have to do what we need to assert our role," he told CNN.
Corker and McCain are among Trump's fiercest Republican critics in Congress.
The White House is under fire as the deadline to begin the process of slapping fresh sanctions on Russia passed three and a half weeks ago.
Administration officials said Wednesday a review process was still underway to identify individuals connected to the Russian defense and intelligence services.
The White House pinned the missed deadline on the State Department.
Preparing to see Putin JUST WATCHED Things Trump has said about Putin Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Things Trump has said about Putin 01:27 The delay comes as Trump prepares to see Russian President Vladimir Putin for the second time face-to-face during a summit meeting in Vietnam.
The White House has declined to say whether the two men plan to sit for formal talks when they both attend the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Da Nang, but a person close to the administration said Trump's aides are working to arrange a bilateral meeting between the two leaders, although the details have not been finalized.
Announcing a new round of sanctions against Russia for its cyber intrusions into last year's presidential election ahead of talks with Putin would prove provocative.
Putin has denied Russian involvement in election meddling, and Trump -- who did express concerns about the cyber intrusion during his first meeting with Putin in July -- has nevertheless called the intelligence community findings that Moscow worked to sway the election in his favor a "hoax."
It was that attitude which prompted US lawmakers over the summer to approve legislation that required Trump to impose new sanctions on those involved in Russia's cyber efforts.
Trump signed the law grudgingly behind closed doors facing with veto-proof majorities in the House and Senate.
But in a signing statement, he expressed constitutional objections to Congress' attempt to sway his foreign policy.
And the White House expressed reservations at the law's potential to sour his efforts to improve relations with Russia.
Since then, the administration has taken some steps to comply with the law, including updating an existing set of Treasury sanctions on Russia related to its incursion into Ukraine.
On September 29, the White House delegated authorities for identifying those involved in the cyber intrusions to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin.
But the administration did not, as required by the law by the start of October, "issue regulations or other guidance to specify the persons that are part of, or operate for or on behalf of, the defense and intelligence sectors of the Government of the Russian Federation."
Neither the State Department nor the White House could say when the assessment -- which was required by law to be completed by October 1 -- would be finished, saying only that it would be announced "soon."
White House 'remains committed' White House press secretary Sarah Sanders insisted the administration "remains committed to holding Russia accountable -- and has on a variety of fronts," citing actions to confront Russia's actions in Syria and recent comments from US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley condemning Moscow's support for Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad.
Privately, however, White House officials blamed the State Department for the delay, expressing frustration at the process, which led to the missed deadline.
"There is no deliberate holdup," one official said, adding the memo on beginning implementation of the sanctions should have been prepared and circulated by now.
On Tuesday, the State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said the agency was "working to try to complete that process."
"My understanding -- and I'm not working on this myself -- but from our people who are working on it, they tell me that it's pretty complicated, that it can take some time," Nauert said.
The delay had drawn concerns from Republicans and Democrats alike, who worry the administration is slow-walking a process that Trump had already expressed misgivings about when it was being debated over the summer.
'Obey the law' "They can say whatever they want to.
But they have to obey the law.
The law is what the Constitution says we have to obey," McCain said, suggesting his armed services panel had the power to enact its own punishment of Russia's cyber behavior.
His Democratic colleague, Sen. Ben Cardin, said he had yet to receive a formal response to a letter he and McCain wrote to the administration late last month pressing for a comprehensive plan for implementing the sanctions required by the law.
Cardin said an early October meeting with Tillerson to discuss the matter yielded few answers, and he hadn't heard from the State Department since then.
"I am concerned," Cardin said.
"First of all, the relationship between the different agencies and the White House is unclear.
We've seen supposed decisions made and not be carried out," he said.
"They've already missed deadlines.
We will look at other options."
A person familiar with Cardin's October 11 meeting with Tillerson said the top diplomat assured him the State Department was working on the guidance, and that the administration had no intention of shirking its responsibilities under the law to conduct the review.
(CNN) "The Rust Belt is so incredible," President Donald Trump said in a speech in Indiana after winning the election.
The region has been credited by Trump himself for his victory.
Speaking of Hillary Clinton's loss, Trump has said, "It was a bad candidate who didn't go to Wisconsin or Michigan like they should have."
He tailored his economic message to winning voters there, promising to renegotiate trade deals like NAFTA and promising new manufacturing jobs.
Those efforts are still underway.
Trump came into office promising to shrink government.
And his proposals would do that.
But more often than not, the consequences of specific language he has endorsed would be felt disproportionately in the Rust Belt.
This is not a phenomenon isolated to one bill or a partisan twisting of the facts, but rather something that repeats in data and projections for a number of proposals he supports.
Here are a few: Trump has supported health care bills hard on the Rust Belt It's in the details of many of the health care plans proposed thus far where the Rust Belt sees the most hurt.
A lot of people in the Rust Belt have pre-existing conditions.
But ensuring that people with pre-existing conditions can get health care, or care at the same cost as other people, has not been a requirement of most of all of the health care legislation Trump has pushed.
This has caused such an uproar that the "Jimmy Kimmel test" turned into one of the biggest points of debate over proposals in the Senate.
But most of the bills proposed this year would have undone the expansion or set funding limits with caps or block grants on traditional Medicaid.
(Note: supporters say the block grants would enable state governments to better serve their populations, but it is beyond dispute that block grants would curb the amount of money in Medicaid programs.)
Treatment for opioid addiction, which has high mortality rates in Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan, could also be jeopardized by bills Trump backed.
The bills lacked requirements or allowed states to get waivers for essential health benefit guarantees, which cover substance abuse.
Medicaid expansion rollbacks , which reduce access to care for lower-income individuals, could also negatively impact drug addiction recovery.
Ohio has the third highest opioid death rate in the nation, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation One area where Trump's policies may not impact the Rust Belt as much is his stopping payments for cost-sharing reductions (CSR) to insurance companies.
Rust Belt states have a lower number of enrollees benefiting from CSR payments.
The tax reform framework mostly benefits high earners, who tend to live on the coasts As the Trump administration doubles down on tax reform this week, analysts have pointed out that those at the very top of the income spectrum will fare the best in the proposed framework, with the top 0.1% of earners seeing after-tax income jump more than 10%.
The plan's mixture of estate, individual and corporate tax rate changes are projected to be most generous to high earners.
Rust Belt states Ohio, Michigan and Indiana are not home to large populations of $1 million household income earners.
Rather, they're in the middle or bottom of the pack, according a summary from the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy .
States with a higher percentage of millionaire earners voted for Hillary Clinton in the 2016 election and are near Washington, DC.
Only 0.2% of Michigan's households are expected to earn more than $1 million in 2018, putting it next to last behind West Virginia.
In Ohio, the number is 0.5%.
In Indiana, it's 0.4%.
Compare that with New Jersey, at 1.2%, the District of Columbia at 0.9% or Maryland at 0.8%.
In Wisconsin, the average SALT deduction in 2015 was $11,653, according to 2015 IRS data .
In Pennsylvania, the number was $11,248 and in Ohio it was $10,444.
Compare this with some blue states: In Washington, the average was $7,402.
In Hawaii, it was $9,905.
In Nevada, it was $5,989.
Trump's first "travel ban" could have jeopardized medical care After Trump signed a ban on travel targeting people from seven Muslim-majority countries, there was great concern in the medical profession whether it would cause doctor shortages in the Rust Belt.
Research by Raj Chetty Initially, the ban created alarm when it seemed like many doctors beginning medical residencies in the US would be denied entry.
A visa program that places foreign-born doctors in underserved areas was also impacted and The Economist has found lower health quality and life expectancy in the Rust Belt and surrounding areas.
As the travel ban went through multiple versions, some restrictions were eased.
An exception was added to allow student doctors entry, and some doctors who had their visas jeopardized are practicing in the country.
But the travel ban proposals have "caused chaos" for immigrant doctors, according to Mitra Akhtari, an economist at Airbnb, who analyzed the effects of the ban on doctors for the Immigrant Doctors Project while pursing a PhD in economics at Harvard.
The Association of American Medical Colleges has continued to argue the Administration's travel bans are contributing to doctor shortage problems in underserved areas Approximately 7,000 doctors are working in the US from one of the banned countries in the updated travel ban, Akhtari says.
According to data from the Migration Policy Institute, more than 25% of doctors and surgeons were foreign-born as of 2010.
Story highlights Sanders said she hadn't spoken to Trump about Flake's decision Flake eviscerated the President in a floor speech earlier in the day Washington (CNN) Following Sen. Jeff Flake's evisceration of President Donald Trump from the floor of the Senate, the White House said Tuesday it was a smart decision for the Arizona Republican to retire.
"Based on the lack of support he has from the people of Arizona, it's probably a good move," press secretary Sarah Sanders said during the daily briefing.
Sanders said she hadn't spoken to Trump about Flake's decision.
Flake, who has frequently sparred with Trump, said earlier Tuesday he will not run for re-election.
In a blistering floor speech he bemoaned the changing tenor of politics in the United States.
"If I have been critical, it's not because I relish criticizing the behavior of the President of the United States," Flake said.
"If I have been critical, it is because I believe that it is my obligation to do so, as a matter of duty and conscience."
Read More
Washington (CNN) Donald Trump has been president for 278 days.
Very, very few can be described as -- all in all -- good days for him.
Tuesday, however, was one.
Yes, the day started with an extended Twitter fight between Trump and Tennessee Sen. Bob Corker that dominated cable TV headlines for much of the morning.
But, then things started to take a very pro-Trump turn: * Republican senators emerged from their lunch with the President all smiles.
They insisted his message -- on tax reform, on judicial nominees, on, well, everything -- had been extremely well received.
(Trump later tweeted -- 3 times!
-- that he has been given a standing ovation.)
* Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake not only announced he was retiring but also acknowledged that it would have been very difficult for him to win a Republican primary.
Trump had repeatedly criticized Flake after the Arizona Senator wrote a book excoriating Trump and the GOP who welcomed him with open arms.
Trump went as far as to chat with potential primary challengers to Flake -- and former Trump chief strategist Steve Bannon was actively working with Flake's main primary opponent.
House Republicans announced not one but two congressional probes into the Obama administration and Hillary Clinton .
One deals with the FBI's handling of the investigation into Clinton's private email server while she served as Secretary of State.
The other is focused on a 2010 uranium deal with Russia that involves Clinton Foundation donations even as Clinton was the nation's chief diplomat.
None of the above is to say that Trump scored a perfect 10.
He -- and, in his defense, most politicians -- rarely do.
The presidency -- especially in the age of wall-to-wall cable TV and social media -- is an impossible job to get right every (or any) day.
And, Trump's feud with Corker -- not to mention the Wall Street Journal reporting that the Manhattan district attorney's office is looking into former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort -- are clearly problematic.
Nor does it mean that Trump's Tuesday might not be less of win when viewed in the medium to long term.
It's possible, for example, that Flake's speech on the Senate floor triggers a broader revolt against Trump within the governing wing of the GOP.
"Well I'm not here to describe a private meeting, I can just say that a lot of my colleagues share the concerns that I raised on the floor yesterday, and I believe that more of them will speak out in the future," Flake said about the Senate GOP's Tuesday lunch in an interview with CNN's "New Day" Wednesday.
"I hope that we have reached a tipping point of some type, where we don't continue to normalize, by being silent, the kind of behavior that we've seen.
That's why I felt it was important to give the speech, and I hope that we move in a different direction."
Maybe!
But, for a President who has seen 10 times as many bad days as good ones, Tuesday falls into the latter category for now.
The big picture takeaway from Tuesday for people paying only loose attention -- which is most people -- is that Republican politicians who cross Trump lose.
That Flake's decision to write a book in which he bashed Trump led Arizona Republicans to turn away from him to the point where his poll numbers suggested he couldn't win.
For Trump -- and former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon -- Flake can be pointed to as a cautionary tale for any elected Republican who is weighing whether to break with Trump.
The message is: Do it and lose.
The developments on Capitol Hill on Tuesday mean that something other than stories about the ongoing investigations into Russia's attempted meddling in the 2016 election will be coming from Congress.
And that the focus of these stories will be on two things the Republican base hates: Hillary Clinton and the Obama administration.
Finally, the news that Clinton's campaign and the DNC helped to fund the research into the Trump dossier allows the President to muddy the waters about the ongoing special counsel investigation into Russia.
It's proof, he will argue, that this whole Russia story was a hoax!
And a partisan witch hunt!
"Watergate, modern age," is how Trump described the latest developments on the dossier as he left the White House Wednesday en route to a fundraiser in Texas.
Now.
For anyone who has closely followed the Trump presidency, you know that it's a day-to-day thing.
As in: Yesterday isn't predictive of today and today doesn't tell us much about tomorrow.
(Witness: Trump's all-over-the-place Q and A session with reporters on the White House lawn Wednesday.)
But, a good day is a good day.
And Tuesday was one for Trump.
Story highlights "We have great unity," Trump said But Corker and Flake openly criticized Trump Tuesday Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump, a day after public and nasty fissures opened within the Republican Party, told reporters his visit to Capitol Hill had been nothing but a "lovefest."
"We have great unity," Trump said, touting the "standing ovations" the Republicans senators gave him during his Tuesday visit.
Trump, standing on the White House South Lawn before flying to Dallas for a fundraiser, dismissed brutal comments from Sens.
Jeff Flake and Bob Corker, two Republicans who -- after announcing they would no longer seek re-election -- have lambasted Trump's leadership and tone.
"There is great unity.
I mean if you look at the Democrats with Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton, that's a mess," he said.
"There's great unity in the Republican Party."
But Tuesday, if anything, reflected the deep chasm growing within the GOP.
Read More
(CNN) President Donald Trump wasn't scheduled to talk to the press on Wednesday.
He spent the morning at the White House and was set to jet off to a fundraiser in Dallas this evening.
Except that as he walked to Marine One, which was idling on the White House lawn, Trump stopped to take a few shouted questions from reporters.
Then a few more.
And a few more.
He spent better than 15 minutes talking about Niger, La David Johnson, Jeff Flake, Ivy League schools, his memory, standing ovations, "my generals," uranium and Watergate.
It was, in a word, amazing.
And, before Trump came into office, totally unprecedented.
Trying to piece together a single line of thought from what was an incredibly wide-ranging set of questions and answers, is impossible.
So, below are eight thoughts I jotted down while watching Trump in real time.
1.
Trump is going to use -- and use -- the news of the Clinton campaign funding the anti-Trump dossier In the wake of The Washington Post's reporting last night that Hillary Clinton's campaign and the Democratic National Committee helped pay for former British spy Christopher Steele's work to compile a dossier on Trump, the President made clear that he will use that as a cudgel against all comers questioning his campaign's ties to Russia.
"Hillary Clinton always denied it," Trump said of the dossier funding.
"The Democrats always denied it, and now only because it is going to come out in a court case, they said yes, they did it, they admitted it, and they are embarrassed by it.
I think it is a disgrace, it just really, it is a very sad commentary on politics in this country."
He added later that the story about Democratic funding for the dossier was "Watergate, modern age."
2.
Trump l-o-v-e-s to pretend he's never heard of people he doesn't like In Trump's world, there is nothing worse than being unknown.
It means you don't matter.
And so, his greatest putdown is to claim that he has never heard of people attacking him.
Trump said Wednesday that he didn't even know who Sen. Jeff Flake was before Flake wrote a book critical of Trump.
And, Trump added, the first time he saw Flake on TV, he thought the Arizona Republican was Democrat.
BOOM!
ROASTED!
(Note bene: Donald Trump was a Democrat until the late 2000s; Flake has a 97% score with the American Conservative Union .)
3.
Trump is uniquely focused on proving how smart he is I've written before about Trump's obsession with IQ -- his and others .
Intelligence -- or the perception that people (read: reporters) don't think he is as smart as he knows he is -- is never far from Trump's mind.
"People don't understand, I went to an Ivy League college.
I was a nice student," Trump told reporters Wednesday.
"I did very well.
I'm a very intelligent person."
Later, pointing to his head, he added: "One of the great memories of all time."
4.
The 2016 election ended 351 days ago Trump is still re-living it!
Out of nowhere, he managed to note that no one gave him a chance to win the Electoral College but he won anyway!
And with 306 electoral votes!
It's true.
I even found this map!
5.
Trump feels very possessive about the military Trump referred to "my generals" and "my military" when referring to their toughness and tenacity.
Interestingly, he was less willing to take ownership of the military action in Niger that left four American soldiers dead; that, he noted, was a decision made by the generals.
But, what about "my generals"???
6.
Trump will never admit he was wrong.
Or apologize.
When asked about a controversial phone call he had with Myeshia Johnson, the widow of La David Johnson, a solider killed in action in Niger, Trump again argued he had done everything right -- all the way down to clearly remembering La David's name.
"I was really nice to her.
I respect her, I respect her family, I certainly respect La David, who I, by the way, called La David right from the beginning," Trump said.
"They put a chart in front, La David, it says La David Johnson."
10 out of 10.
A+.
Nailed it.
Perfect every time.
7.
Trump is a BIG fan of the media Forget all the "fake news" stuff.
Trump says that because he knows it appeals to his base.
Trump's willingness to talk to reporters -- and the clear joy he takes in the back and forth -- shows you how he really feels about the press.
No past president -- not one -- would have spent 15 minutes taking questions from reporters during what was supposed to be just a walk to Marine One.
"I think 3-5 q's is good," tweeted former Bush White House press secretary Dana Perino .
"Especially in front of a helicopter that's ready to go.
Gotta feed the press in bits!
Not all you can eat buffets."
8.
Trump digs a cliffhanger Asked about whether he had settled on a pick to be the next chairman of the Federal Reserve, Trump said he had one name in mind but wouldn't share it.
He added that it would be a "surprise."
Always remember that Trump is a product of New York City tabloid media and reality TV.
And both of those mediums are big on leaving the audience wanting more, teasing out the possibility of a big reveal in the not-too-distant future.
All of that is done in pursuit of keeping eyeballs on them.
And Trump is in the business of keeping eyeballs on him.
Always.
Story highlights Trump disputes Myeshia Johnson's account He says he was very nice to her Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump defended Wednesday his conversation with the a fallen soldier's widow who said Trump didn't remember her husband's name.
Myeshia Johnson, the widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson who was killed in Niger, said in an interview with ABC's "Good Morning America" Monday that the President stumbled on her husband's name and suggested the only reason he knew it was because the report was right in front of him.
"I was really nice to her.
I respect her, I respect her family, I certainly respect La David, who I, by the way, called La David right from the beginning," Trump said Wednesday.
"They put a chart in front, La David, it says La David Johnson."
Johnson said she was distraught over Trump's alleged oversights during the call, which came as the Johnson family and Rep. Frederica Wilson, D-Florida, who is a friend of the family, rode in a limo to receive Johnson's body from Dover Air Force Base.
Read More
Story highlights Ivanka Trump went to Capitol Hill on Wednesday She spoke at a news conference on tax reform (CNN) After months of meetings behind closed doors on Capitol Hill, Ivanka Trump took the podium Wednesday in the Capitol's Lyndon Baines Johnson Room to make a public pitch on tax reform, which she called "critically important."
"Today, the vast majority of American homes are dual income.
Our tax code has to recognize and support this reality and support our dual values of work and a family," she said at a news conference, citing statistics on the rising costs of childcare.
"Over the years as wages have stagnated, the costs of raising a family have grown exponentially," she said, surrounded by Republican lawmakers, including Sens.
Tim Scott, Marco Rubio, Shelley Moore Capito, Dean Heller and Mike Lee.
"It is a priority of this administration and it is a legislative priority to ensure that American families can thrive and that we deliver real and meaningful tax relief to middle-income families."
"It is a priority of this administration and it is a legislative priority to ensure that working families can thrive," @IvankaTrump says pic.twitter.com/xQL8p0hBeo Betsy Klein (@betsy_klein) October 25, 2017 She left before the question-and-answer portion of the news conference.
Earlier this week, Trump took her pitch on the road, speaking about expansion of the child tax credit at a town hall in Bucks County, Pennsylvania.
She spent the summer and early fall meeting with lawmakers and advocacy groups on the subject, and recently hosted a bipartisan dinner at her home with husband and senior White House adviser Jared Kushner on the topic.
Read More
Story highlights Ivanka Trump is going to Japan She will talk about women's economic empowerment in a speech (CNN) Ivanka Trump is heading to Japan next week, where she will deliver a speech at the invitation of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
On Friday, November 3, the first daughter and adviser to President Donald Trump will discuss women's participation in the economy and women's entrepreneurship at the World Assembly for Women 2017, according to a White House official.
The annual conference is hosted by the government of Japan and is part of Abe's efforts to create a "society where women shine," according to the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website The speech comes just ahead of her father's trip to Asia.
The President lands in Japan on November 5 and will also visit South Korea, China, Vietnam and the Philippines.
Women's economic empowerment has been a key topic in Ivanka Trump's West Wing portfolio.
She is currently making a push alongside the administration for tax reform, focusing specifically on expansion of the child tax credit.
She has been meeting with advocacy groups and bipartisan lawmakers on Capitol Hill, including Republican Sen. Marco Rubio, who has been working with Trump and persuaded her to adopt his proposal with Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, to expand the child tax credit.
Rubio has said the child tax credit proposal specifically has "universal support" in Congress, though broader tax reform will be a tougher process.
Story highlights "In doing research for her platform, the first lady learned of #NoOneEatsAlone," Trump's communications director says Trump has said she intended to use her position to help with issues facing children (CNN) First lady Melania Trump is making good on a promise she made earlier this year to combat childhood bullying, taking a surprise trip Monday to a middle school in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, a Detroit suburb.
Trump is bringing awareness to a problem that many children are confronted with on a daily basis.
She gave brief remarks to students in the cafeteria, encouraging them to make new friends and get to know children outside of their social group.
She then sat in on a sixth grade classroom discussion on social and emotional inclusion.
"I always believe that you need to treat each other with respect and kindness and compassion, but also stay true to yourself.
Just listen to your heart, but be yourself," the first lady told students in the classroom.
Speaking separately in the cafeteria, Trump urged students to find new friends to eat lunch with.
"Ask them what they like, what their hobbies are, so nobody becomes sad or stressed and everybody feels included," she said.
"I think it's important that we choose kindness and compassion."
(CNN) Dramatic announcements from Sens.
Bob Corker and Jeff Flake that they will retire at the end of their terms makes it seem like the Senate is poised for a mass exodus.
But relative to other Senates in history, this Congress is not retiring quickly.
If no other senators retire, which is possible, it will be one of only four election cycles since 1914 when only two incumbent senators decided to retire instead of seeking another term.
The real retirement action to date is happening in the House, where Republicans are leaving at a faster clip than any recent years.
So far, 18 Republican members have announced retirements and three have resigned, compared with 10 retirements and resignations on the Democrat side.
The combined 28 retirements outpace the last several Congresses, with the pace of Republican retirements tipping things over from business as usual to unusual.
Alarmed, in early September House members were talking about how to stop the bleeding.
"We've got to find better ways to empower people where they feel like this is worth their time," Rep. Pete Sessions of Texas, a former two-term National Republican Congressional Committee chair who met with several members to discuss retirements, told the National Journal .
A few weeks later, Rep. Tim Murphy of Pennsylvania announced he would resign after the scandal resulting from an extramarital affair engulfed his office.
NRCC Chairman Steve Stivers has said that the number of House retirements is below the historic average.
But that's only true if an incomplete count is made, leaving out those who say they want to leave their office for other political ambitions.
When those members are included and compared against the same data from recent years, the rate of departures is historically high.
At this time ahead of the 2016 election cycle, six Republican seats were open.
Today, 18 are.
Read More
Washington (CNN) Republican Sen. Jeff Flake's retirement Tuesday could actually boost his party's chances of holding onto his seat in Arizona in the 2018 midterm elections.
It's an unusual political reality: Typically, it's harder to beat an incumbent like Flake than to win a race for an open seat.
But Flake's position as an antagonist in President Donald Trump's Republican Party had flipped that conventional wisdom on its head.
He was almost certain to lose in a Republican primary to conservative challenger Kelli Ward .
Ward, though, is seen by many GOP strategists as a poor candidate in a general election matchup with Democratic Rep. Kyrsten Sinema.
With Flake out of the way, Republicans are now free to recruit a potentially stronger candidate into that primary.
Flake acknowledged the odd circumstances Tuesday as he announced he'd quit.
"It's difficult to move forward in a Republican primary if you have been critical of any of the behavior that's gone on," Flake said in an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper an hour after his speech announcing his retirement on the Senate floor.
"Based on the lack of support he has from the people of Arizona, it's probably a good move," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Private polls by GOP and Democratic groups showed his approval ratings in the 20s among Arizona Republican voters.
Those polls showed Flake being crushed by Ward, who had already entered the August 2018 primary, in a head-to-head contest.
So Trump's White House had spent months attempting -- without success -- to find someone else to enter the race and challenge Flake.
Among the factors hindering potential candidates: the potential for primary votes to be split three ways.
Now that Flake is retiring, finding an alternative to Ward to enter the primary could be a lot easier.
"The one political upshot of Sen. Flake's decision today is that Steve Bannon's hand-picked candidate, conspiracy-theorist Kelli Ward, will not be the Republican nominee for this Senate seat in 2018," said Steven Law, the president of the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC that supports Republican candidates and incumbents.
Graham may run, Schweikert won't Robert Graham, the former Arizona Republican Party chairman, told CNN's Brooke Baldwin on Wednesday that he "now, more than ever" considering entering the race.
He said Ward is "blinded by ambition" and lacks policy depth.
Graham had previously told CNN he will travel to Washington next week to meet with political action committees supporting Trump and leading figures in Trump's political orbit.
One potential contender many establishment Republicans hoped would run, Rep. David Schweikert, told reporters Wednesday he isn't interested.
"There's no burn in my heart to run for the Senate," he said.
Schweikert said he was surprised by Tuesday's announcement and thought virtually all Republicans in the delegation could be taking a look at the race, but admitted he didn't know who would jump in.
The Arizona congressional delegation is meeting Thursday on Capitol Hill, where the subject is sure to come up -- but Schweikert stressed that such meetings take place regularly.
In Arizona, others are looking to state treasurer Jeff DeWit, who was the Trump campaign's chief operating officer, one Arizona Republican operative said.
"The deal is, DeWit has two days to grab the ring.
It's his if he wants it, but he's got to move quick.
If he wants it, everyone steps out the way.
If he doesn't, chaos ensues," the operative said.
If DeWit runs, he "definitely has the President's support" -- whereas others would have to earn that backing, the operative said.
The operative said Schweikert and Paul Gosar, as well as former congressional candidate and GoDaddy executive Christine Jones, are potential candidates if DeWit doesn't run.
A GOP aide also mentioned Reps. Martha McSally and Andy Biggs and state attorney general Mark Brnovich.
Both conversations took place before Schweikert told reporters Wednesday he won't run.
Looming above it all is uncertainty over Arizona Sen. John McCain, who is battling brain cancer.
What Republicans agreed on was that Flake's retirement undercut the central argument of Ward's candidacy.
"You could officially write the obituary for Kelli Ward's campaign today -- it was nice knowing you.
Her best campaign line was, 'I'm not that guy,'" the Arizona Republican operative said.
Flake's retirement is a victory for Trump, who had made clear he wanted the senator out.
He told supportive Republicans in Arizona prior to the 2016 election that he would spend $10 million of his own money to see that Flake is unseated in the primary.
His White House has been in regular contact with DeWit, Graham and other Republicans about the race.
Bannon backed Ward even while working in the White House, and Robert Mercer, the GOP mega-donor and close Bannon ally, has given $300,000 to a pro-Ward super PAC.
At an August campaign rally in Phoenix, Trump huddled backstage with DeWit, Graham and Franks.
Two sources familiar with the meeting told CNN it was focused on ousting Flake -- who Trump calls "the flake."
For his part, Flake refused to endorse Trump in the general election, and then three months ago published a book sharply critical of Trump titled "Conscience of a Conservative: A Rejection of Destructive Politics and a Return to Principle."
In this Aug. 22, 2017, photo, the Oval Office of the White House is seen after renovations including new wallpaper.
Spending for furniture and other cosmetic renovations has reached $1.75 million.
President Donald Trump's administration is spending $1.75 million on furniture for the White House and offices tied to it, according to government records.
The tab includes $17,000 for custom rugs, $7,000 for "furniture pedestals," and $5,000 for wallpaper.
Kittinger, a popular furniture company of the White House dating back to former President Richard Nixon, created a $12,800 custom conference table for the Roosevelt Room.
Take a Peek Inside Living Quarters at the White House While it is common for new presidents to redecorate, Trump has spent slightly more than the $1.5 million spent by former president Barack Obama over a similar period of time.
Obama made a point of paying for some White House furnishings out-of-pocket.
It's unclear if Trump has done the same.
PHOTOS: Halloween at the White House
A group that wanted to bring a 45-foot statue of a naked woman to the National Mall was denied a permit because it would detract from historic monuments and could damage the turf, National Park Service (NPS) officials said.
"The proposed nearly 48-foot height of the statue introduces a visual element that would diminish the propertys significant historic features by altering the setting and historic character of the National Mall landscape," NPS spokesman Mike Litterst said in an email.
Organizers of Catharsis on the Mall wanted the R-Evolution statue to stand near the Washington Monument, facing the White House, for 91 days between November and March.
The permit was denied Wednesday, Litterst said.
Catharsis organizers claimed in a statement that NPS issued them a permit and then revoked it.
NPS did not immediately respond to an inquiry about whether that claim was accurate.
Catharsis spokeswoman Natalie White accused NPS of denying the permit to silence women.
"They don't want us to take action, they don't want us to say enough is enough, they don't want this symbol to remind women to stand up to the injustice this administration has forced upon them," she said in a statement.
The park service also denied a permit for a memorial temple to stand on the National Mall for 119 days, Litterst said.
The statue and temple "would likely cause significant damage to and require replacement of the underlying turf and soil," Litterst said.
Fats Domino, Legendary Rock n' Roll Singer, Dies at 89 Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Catharsis on the Mall was granted a permit for an event Nov. 10-12 and will be allowed to assemble 30 other temporary structures, Litterst said.
The arts festival was granted permission to light a fire on the Mall, Litterst said.
This year will be the third year Catharsis on the Mall holds the ceremonial burning, Litterst said.
A crowdfunding campaign was launched in October to bring the statue, and reached 73 percent of its $90,000 goal before NPS announced the permit was denied.
The R-Evolution statute is intended to represent women free from domestic violence, artist and creator Marco Cochrane said.
A Trump adminstration policy change could make the renewal process for H-1B visas more time consuming and complicated.
Kris Sanchez reports.
A Trump administration policy change could make the renewal process for H-1B visas more time consuming and complicated.
Those seeking to renew their H-1B visa, which allows skilled workers from outside of the country to work in the United States for a certain period of time, will now face the same level of requirements for a renewal as they did for their initial application, according to U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Visa holders seeking renewal will need to have a job with a sponsoring company, copy of their passport, proof of degree with transcripts, and a letter of current and previous employment.
There is no longer a fast-track renewal process for the visa program, which grants roughly 65,000 visas every year.
Fats Domino, Legendary Rock n' Roll Singer, Dies at 89 Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) San Francisco Bay Area companies such as Google and Apple depend on the H-1B visa program to acquire highly-skilled workers from out of the country.
President Donald Trump in April signed an order that asked the government to propose new rules and changes that would stop what he called abuses in the visa program used by U.S. technology companies.
"We are going to defend our workers, protect our jobs and finally put America first," Trump declared at the time.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017) Americans are split in a new poll on rules that would require professional athletes to kneel for the national anthem, a real shift in favor of their right to protest, NBC News reported.
Fifty-one percent of respondents to an HBO Real Sports/Marist poll said they opposed leagues requiring that players stand, while 47 percent supported such rules.
The four-point difference is within the Oct. 15-17 poll's margin of error, which makes it a statistical tie.
But when the poll was conducted a year ago, a clear majority supported rules requiring players to stand, by a mark of 52 to 43.
Since then, President Donald Trump threw a spotlight on the athletes following the example of former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who began kneeling for the anthem in August 2016.
In Washington, there is a search for answers about the ambush in Niger that killed four U.S. Service members.
(Published Saturday, Oct. 21, 2017) The Trump administration is paving the way for lethal strikes against terrorists in Niger as the U.S. military pushes forward with a plan to arm the Reaper drones that fly over that country, multiple U.S. officials told NBC News.
France has already decided to arm its drones in the region, U.S. documents show, and the move to arm U.S. Reapers has been under consideration for some time long before this month's ambush of a Green Beret unit that resulted in the deaths of four American soldiers.
But that incident, details of which are still coming to light, is fueling an urgency within the Trump administration to take more aggressive steps against the terrorist groups that are operating in North and West Africa, according to intelligence and military officials.
In the wake of the attack, the U.S. has been pressing the government of Niger to allow armed drones at the U.S. bases in that country, three U.S. officials said.
Beset by poverty, weak governance and insurgent movements, the African region that includes Niger and neighboring Mali is considered by U.S. officials to be a fertile recruiting ground for Al Qaeda and ISIS.
U.S. officials believe the militants who ambushed the Green Berets belong to a group that has pledged allegiance to ISIS.
President Obama declined to allow armed drones to fly over the region, but the military has been pressing for some time to reverse that decision, officials said.
Kelly 'Stunned' by Rep.'s Criticism of Trump's Call to Widow
A Facebook post suggesting a Florida congresswoman be lynched following her public feud with President Donald Trump over his phone call to a Gold Star family has prompted the FBI to contact authorities in Chicagos northern suburbs.
Patrick Fazio reports.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) A Facebook post suggesting a Florida congresswoman be lynched following her public feud with President Donald Trump over his phone call to a Gold Star family has prompted the FBI to contact authorities in Chicagos northern suburbs.
Special Agent Garrett Croon told NBC 5 Tuesday the bureau was familiar with the post about Rep. Frederica Wilson and the agency was talking with Des Plaines police.
"We are aware of a social media posting generated in Des Plaines, IL and are in contact with local authorities, Croon said in an email.
Screenshots of the Facebook post which appears to have been deleted along with the users account are being shared on social media, and some have claimed its creator is a former police officer.
Croon said he did not know if the alleged author was a police officer.
Des Plaines police did not respond to multiple emails and phone calls requesting comment.
Chicago police referred questions to Capitol Police, citing a department policy to not comment on threats or security measures for public officials.
Capitol Police said they do not comment on "ongoing investigations."
The alleged post, which NBC 5 has not verified the authenticity of, contains an image of a glum-looking Wilson in one of her flamboyant signature cowboy hats.
Need ten good men to help carry out a lynching, it reads.
Must have own horse and saddle.
Rope will be provided.
The Chicago Tribune reports that 54-year-old Des Plaines resident Tom Keevers says he is receiving death threats after an "anonymous 'meme-maker'" twisted his words in a Facebook post.
Calls to a phone number listed under Keevers' name were not immediately returned.
The paper reports Keevers floundered through an interview in which he says he didnt write the post, could not remember threatening to lynch the congresswoman and that it was possible someone used his words to make a meme.
"Dont people get in arguments on Facebook all the time?"
the Tribune reports Keevers as saying, before he doubled down on his initial defense: "I did not use those words."
The post comes after a public tumult between Wilson and Trump surrounding the congresswomans claim the president botched a condolence call to the pregnant widow of a Green Beret killed in Niger earlier this month along with three of his comrades.
Wilson said Trump told the slain soldier's widow her husband knew what he signed up for."
Wilson accused Trump of being insensitive.
The pregnant widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson, Myeshia Johnson, said Monday the phone call she received from Trump before meeting her husbands body at Dover Air Force Base made her more upset as the president struggled to remember her spouses name, NBC News reported.
She said thats when Trump told her that her husband "knew what he signed up for but it hurts anyways," "I had a very respectful conversation with the widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson, and spoke his name from beginning, without hesitation!"
Trump tweeted in response.
Calls and emails to Wilsons office were not responded to but a statement on her website stands by her assertion that Trump fumbled the phone call.
"Despite President Trump's suggestion that I have recanted my statement or misstated what he said, I stand firmly by my original account of his conversation with Myeshia Johnson, the widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson," the statement reads in part.
"Moreover, this account has been confirmed by family members who also witnessed Mr. Trump's incredible lack of compassion and sensitivity."
Meanwhile, in Des Plaines, authorities continue to investigate the alleged Facebook threat.
"People threaten Donald Trump all the time and nothing happens," Keevers told the Tribune.
"I dont think a lot about what I write on Facebook."
Threatening a member of Congress, which is a federal crime, can carry a prison sentence of up to five years.
Keevers was honored by the FBI in 2003 for helping apprehend a bank-robbery suspect, the Tribune reported at the time.
Students at the University of California, Davis, can now purchase $30 Plan B emergency contraceptives, pregnancy tests, condoms and other personal care products from a vending machine.
The idea came from UC Davis senior Parteek Singh, after a friend was unable to buy emergency contraceptives in time.
(Published Friday, April 28, 2017) Often referred to as the "Uber of birth control," Nurx ships birth control directly to a woman's doorstep, bypassing the traditional visit to a clinic or physician typically necessary for getting or renewing a prescription.
Available in 15 states plus Washington D.C., the app may simply be an extra modern-day convenience for some women, NBC News reported.
But for others, it's the difference between having access to birth control and not.
According to the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, nearly 20 million women in America live in so-called "contraceptive deserts": counties where the number of public clinics is not enough to meet the needs of the county's population.
The group estimates that more than 19.7 million females ages 13 to 44 lack reasonable access to public clinics that provide birth control, defined as at least one clinic or provider for every 1,000 women.
Trump's Capitol Hill Visit Overshadowed by GOP Criticism
Trump's Capitol Hill Visit Overshadowed by Criticism from Republican Senators Flake and Corker A rare visit to Capitol Hill by President Donald Trump was overshadowed Tuesday by criticisms of the president from two Republican senators.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video White House Responds to GOP Senator's Critique of Trump UP NEXT White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded to Sen. Jeff Flake Tuesday after the Arizona Republican announced his retirement in a speech critical of President Donald Trump's mercurial behavior.
As political pressure mounts on social media companies to say where ads are coming from, Twitter will reveal more information about political advertising on its platform.
Twitter said in a blog post on Tuesday it would clearly label political electioneering ads, which the Federal Election Commission (FEC) defines as any ad used to promote a specific candidate for elected office or affiliated party posted within 30 days of a primary election or 60 days of a general election.
Electioneering ads can also include any ad clearly promoting a political candidate at any time.
As CNBC reported, the ads will have some sort of visual marker, likely a purple dot next to the user handle, and a purple box with the text "Promoted by" and the name of the sponsor.
Sen. Flake Announces He Will Not Seek Re-Election, Condemns Trump Sen. Jeff Flake condemns "flagrant disregard of truth and decency" that is undermining American democracy, in a speech announcing he will not seek re-election.
A protester posing as a journalist and yelling about treason threw Russian flags at President Donald Trump as Trump arrived at the Capitol for a Senate lunch on tax.
Chris Baldridge, left, and his late son, Army Sgt.
Dillon Baldridge, right, are pictured in this undated photo.
Dillion Baldridge was killed in Afghanistan on June 10, 2017.
The grieving father of a 22-year-old soldier killed in Afghanistan said he received a $25,000 check from President Donald Trump Monday, months after the commander in chief offered to send him the money during a condolence call, WRAL.com reported.
The check is dated Oct. 18, the same day The Washington Post reported Trump had not yet fulfilled his promise to the Gold Star father.
It came with a letter that said, "I am glad my legal counsel has been able to finally approve this contribution to you."
Army Sgt.
Dillon Baldridge, of Zebulon, North Carolina, and two other soldiers were shot dead by an Afghan soldier on June 10 in the Achin district of Nangarhar province.
In an interview with the Post published last week, Chris Baldridge said he received a call from Trump a few weeks after Dillon was killed to talk about the loss of his son.
Baldridge said when he expressed frustration with the military's survivor benefit program, Trump offered to give him a personal check for $25,000.
Gold Star Widow Recounts Trump Call President Donald Trump is contradicting a war widow's account of the controversial condolence call she received from the president following her husband's death.
Speaking on "Good Morning America," Myeisha Johnson said she heard President Trump stumbling, trying to remember her husband's name as the call began.
"That's what hurt me the most.
Because if my husband is out here fighting for our country and risked his life for our country - why can't you remember his name?"
Johnson said.
(Published Tuesday, Oct. 24, 2017) Asked about the Post's report on Oct. 18, White House Deputy Press Secretary Lindsay Walters told NBC News "the check has been sent."
"Its disgusting that the media is taking something that should be recognized as a generous and sincere gesture, made privately by the President, and using it to advance the medias biased agenda," Walters said.
The White House blamed the delay on an "approval process" that involves "multiple agencies anytime the President interacts with the public, especially when transmitting personal funds."
It added that Trump "followed up several times to ensure that the check was being sent."
Kelly 'Stunned' by Rep.'s Criticism of Trump's Call to Widow White House chief of staff John Kelly said Thursday he was "stunned" and "broken hearted" by a Florida congresswoman woman's criticism of President Donald Trump's phone call to one of the families of Americans killed in Niger nearly two weeks ago.
(Published Thursday, Oct. 19, 2017) Dillon's stepmother Jessie Baldridge told Zebulon's WTVD the family plans to launch a foundation in his name to ensure his legacy of service lives on.
Their first event will be a fundraiser to help a local preschool in town.
"Dillon would be proud of this," Jessie Baldridge said.
"I mean who can say they started their foundation from a loan from the president of the United States?"
The controversy surrounding the $25,000 check came to light after Trump boasted two days earlier in a Rose Garden press conference that he reaches out personally to all families of the fallen, and wrongly asserted that past presidents had not.
Calling every family member isn't a presidential tradition.
Trump's recent predecessors have reached out to Gold Star families through letters, private meetings and invitations, as well as calls.
For Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, who saw far more war dead on their watch, individual phone calls would have been a time-consuming task.
Still, Trump suggested he did more to honor the families than his predecessors.
"I think I've called every family of someone who's died," Trump said, then adding, "virtually everybody."
He said it's his practice both to make phone calls and send letters.
Trump Denies He Disrespected Fallen Soldier President Trump is denying a Florida Congresswoman's account of his phone call to the wife of a U.S. soldier recently killed in Niger.
Rep. Frederica Wilson says she was with Myeshia Johnson, the widow of Sgt.
La David Johnson, and listened on a car speaker phone as the president spoke with her.
Wilson claims Trump told the widow that her husband "must've known what he was getting into when he signed up, but I guess it hurts anyway."
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 18, 2017) The Associated Press reached out to the families of all 43 people who have died in military service since Trump became president and made contact with about half the families.
Of those who would address the question, relatives of nine said they had heard from Trump by phone or mail.
Relatives of nine others said they haven't.
Some of those who received calls were comforted, while others came away more upset.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Wall Street Journal reports Special Counsel Robert Mueller has put together a grand jury to look into possible collusion between Russia and the Trump Campaign.
(Published Friday, Aug. 4, 2017) President Donald Trump's personal lawyer is scheduled to speak Tuesday with investigators for the House probe into Russia's involvement in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, NBC News reported.
Sources familiar with the House Intelligence Committee's probe say Michael Cohen will talk with them in private.
The sources requested anonymity to discuss private workings of the House probe.
A source with first-hand knowledge told NBC News that Cohen will also appear before to Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday.
Cohen is a former executive with the Trump Organization.
He was in talks to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, but ended those negotiations as Trump's White House bid grew stronger.
It was later revealed that Cohen had written an email to Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, seeking help in getting the Moscow tower built.
But Peskov said he never responded to the email.
Trump's Capitol Hill Visit Overshadowed by GOP Criticism
Tony Podesta and the Podesta Group are now the subjects of a federal investigation being led by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, three sources with knowledge of the matter told NBC News.
The probe of Podesta and his Democratic-leaning lobbying firm grew out of Mueller's inquiry into the finances of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, according to the sources.
As special counsel, Mueller has been tasked with investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
Tony Podesta is the chairman of the Podesta Group and the brother of John Podesta, Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign chairman.
John Podesta is not currently affiliated with the Podesta Group and is not part of Mueller's investigation.
In a statement, a spokesman for the Podesta Group said the firm always "conducts due diligence ... to ensure compliance" and "is cooperating fully with the Special Counsel's office and has taken every possible step to provide documentation that confirms timely compliance."
Russia Investigation Heats Up as Mueller Convenes Grand Jury
House Republicans narrowly approved the Senate-passed budget resolution Thursday, clearing a procedural hurdle and allowing the House of Representatives to take up a tax overhaul.
Interested in Taxes?
Add Taxes as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Taxes news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The bill passed 216212, with all Democrats and some Republicans opposing the measure.
Speaker Paul Ryan cast a rare vote in favor of the measure, highlighting the significance of the vote.
The president applauded the House for "fulfilling its obligation to the American people" in passing the budget and said he looks forward to "further cooperation with Congress," according to a statement from the White House.
"This resolution sets the stage for Congress to put America first by providing economic relief for the American people in the form of tax cuts and tax reform," the statement read.
A group of New York and New Jersey Republicans opposed the bill out of concerns about possible changes to state and local tax deductions in the GOP tax plan to be formally proposed down the line.
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi bashed the bill as a "massive con."
Republicans are carrying out a massive con on the American people with their #GOPBudget & #BillionairesFirst tax plan.
Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) October 26, 2017 While the nonbinding $4 trillion budget plan would add $1.5 trillion to the deficit over the next decade, all but the most strident deficit hawks voted for the measure, abandoning GOP orthodoxy for their once-in-a-generation effort to rewrite the tax code using reconciliation, which allows for a simple majority vote in the Senate, in lieu of the usual 60-vote threshold, for passage.
President Donald Trump has made that argument, pitching the possibility of a tax overhaul to members this week as he rallied support for the budget resolution.
He said, Tom, just hold your nose, close your eyes and vote yes, Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., said of Trumps message in a phone call last Sunday.
I think thats how a lot of guys are approaching it.
After their failed efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act this year, political considerations also trumped longstanding policy concerns for some members of the party.
There wasnt a win in health care, and the base is frustrated, Rep. Mark Sanford, R-S.C., who voted against the measure, told ABC News.
If there isnt some sort of win, I think there will be repercussions in 2018.
Republicans will release the details of their tax plan next week, and hope to send the measure to the Senate by Thanksgiving.
GOP tax writers still have a number of issues to resolve before releasing the proposal, including any changes to the state and local tax deductions, and potential changes to 401 (k) plans, despite President Trump's pledge not to touch retirement savings accounts.
House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisc., declined to weigh in on the debate between Trump and GOP tax writers, who argue that changes to retirement savings accounts are needed to help pay for the proposed tax cuts.
"I agree with comprehensive tax reform and giving the committee the latitude they need," Ryan told reporters Thursday.
President Donald Trump will officially declare the opioid epidemic a public health emergency in an announcement at the White House on Thursday.
Interested in Opioid Epidemic?
Add Opioid Epidemic as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Opioid Epidemic news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The move diverges from previous promises -- even as recently as Wednesday night -- to declare the epidemic a "national emergency" Two senior administration officials confirm to ABC News that the president will direct acting secretary of Health and Human Services Eric Hargan to announce a nationwide public health emergency and also direct agency heads of other departments and agencies to exercise emergency authorities to minimize deaths and damage caused by the opioid crisis.
USA Today first reported the details "A nationwide public health emergency will really reorient all of the federal government and executive branch's resources towards focusing on providing relief for this urgent need," an official said.
The president had said as early as August he would be declaring a "national emergency," which many interpreted as his commitment to authorize a presidential emergency under the Stafford Act or the National Emergencies Act.
The opioid crisis is an emergency, and Im saying officially right now: It is an emergency.
It's a national emergency, Trump said at the time.
Were going to draw it up and were going to make it a national emergency.
It is a serious problem, the likes of which we have never had.
The president teased the announcement on Wednesday, telling reporters an emergency declaration gives us the power to do things that you cant do right now, but offered no additional details.
In an interview Wednesday night with Lou Dobbs on Fox Business Network, the president again alluded to the announcement he planned to make.
"There are a lot of good people that are seeing what's going on and I think we'll be successful in that next week I'm declaring an emergency -- a national emergency -- on drugs," Trump told Dobbs.
"The opioid [crisis] is a tremendous emergency."
However, experts have told ABC News that declaring it an official national emergency, as Trump long touted he would eventually do, might have been a mistake.
Experts described the difference between the two potential declaration options before the president in interviews earlier this week.
The Stafford Act would have opened up federal resources such as FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund -- usually employed for natural disasters such as hurricanes Maria and Harvey.
This gives federal agencies the authority to cut red tape hindering recovery missions.
Requests for funding from the Disaster Relief Fund come from a governor who claims the circumstances has overwhelmed his or her state's resources.
The president instead will ask the acting-Secretary of Health and Human Services to declare a public health emergency, which allows the agency to waive restrictions and deploy medical personnel to rural areas where medical options are limited.
The Public Health Emergency Fund at HHS currently stands at $57,000, according to an agency spokesperson, and officials said the president's declaration won't yet include a request for Congress to replenish the fund.
Shawn Thew/Getty Images The declaration follows a bombshell report from The Washington Post and CBS News "60 Minutes" implicating multiple members of Congress in the passage of a bill that significantly weakened the Drug Enforcement Agencys enforcement capabilities in the opioid crisis in favor of lobbying by pharmaceutical companies.
Following the report, Rep. Tom Marino, R-Pa., withdrew his name from consideration to lead the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
The number of prescription opioids legally sold nearly quadrupled from 1999 to 2010, despite no change in the amount of pain that Americans reported, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control.
Today, drug overdose is the leading cause of accidental death in the United States -- the majority of those lethal episodes involve an opioid.
The president has made the crisis a primary talking point during his campaign for the White House and in March signed an executive order launching a commission led by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie to explore ways to curb opioid abuse and overdoses.
My statement on @POTUS Donald J. Trumps Action on the opioid crisis: pic.twitter.com/nmNHGCIwIR Governor Christie (@GovChristie) October 26, 2017 On the campaign trail, he would often speak about the opioid crisis in states like New Hampshire and Ohio, but would often cite drugs pouring from across the southern border as a primary driver of the problem.
He reiterated that specific concern with Dobbs on Wednesday and cited his planned wall along the U.S.-Mexico border as a deterrent.
"What's going on there [with] the drugs pouring into the country," Trump said.
"I'll tell you what, we've made a big impact, but still, we need the wall.
Part of the reason we need the wall is for drugs."
ABC News' Jeffrey Cook contributed to this report.
In just a matter of days, on Nov. 1, millions of people will enroll in Obamacares marketplace for health insurance, but after months of back-and-forth over the law, consumers are still confused about when, where, how -- and if -- they can get coverage.
Interested in Health Care Reform?
Add Health Care Reform as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Health Care Reform news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest While most of the country gets health coverage through their employer or through government programs, over 10 million people need to purchase plans through the marketplaces created by the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, law that Republicans have vowed to repeal.
Joe Raedle/Getty Images FILE But the Trump administrations moves to shorten the length of this years open enrollment, cut advertising dollars and slash funding for programs that assist in enrollment have health care advocates concerned that far fewer people will sign up for health insurance this year.
With the government's scaled-back operations, health care advocacy groups have stepped in to help inform people of their options.
The confusion has been running the gamut running from do I need to have insurance?
to is the ACA gone?
said Jim Willshier, Director of Policy at the Pennsylvania Association of Community Health Centers.
With Open Enrollment days away, so-called navigator programs like the ones run by Pennsylvania Association of Community Health Centers, are focusing on grassroots efforts to inform and educate the public.
But that task was made more challenging by recent budget cuts.
The Trump administration cut $116 million in funds for advertising, outreach and navigator programs.
Drew Angerer/Getty Images Willshier said thirty-five percent of his organization's budget was cut from 2016 to 2017.
An enrollment period that's been cut in half to 45 days has only added to the pressures.
In some states, the enrollment period has been extended, but in most places, navigator programs will have to do more with less money and less time.
Were just trying to make ourselves as available as possible, were going to be working on weekends, and were trying to get the word, said Leslie Bachurski, Director of Consumer Navigation at Consumer Health Coalition, which serves 42 counties in Pennsylvania.
A recent Kaiser Family Foundation tracking poll found that only one-fifth of the population is aware that the recent debates theyve seen playing out in the headlines about the Obamacare marketplaces only effect people who buy health insurance on their own.
Its likely the result of a whole year of debate over repealing the Affordable Care Act, where theyre hearing about it nightly on the evening news and not remembering what the punch line is, said Karen Pollitz, a Senior Fellow at the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Health insurance was always complicated, it was never intuitive to people.
And on top of that you have people saying Obamacare is dead.
To fill the advertising void, even some private companies are doing outreach of their own.
Oscar Health, a new health insurance company started by Jared Kushners younger brother Joshua, rolled out an advertising campaign for the open enrollment period.
The company put up ads in places ranging from Grand Central Station in New York to Nashville.
The company is also providing educational tools for consumers.
"Because health care is so confusing, and there's a lot of industry terminology, we've invested a lot in educational content to help people understand their plan and what options are available," said Sara Rowghani, the Senior Vice President of Marketing at Oscar.
Three former Obama administration officials -- former Medicare and Medicaid administrator Andy Slavitt, Josh Peck, and Lori Lodes -- joined together to create Get America Covered, a group that's working on advertising and outreach efforts.
"What we are doing is making sure that people get that basic information because people are really confused," said Lodes.
"The good thing is what counters the misinformation and confusion are the basic facts."
At a time when service, sacrifice and Gold Star families are at the forefront of the nations dialogue, ABC News Martha Raddatz reflected on her most important project on the Powerhouse Politics podcast.
Its different than anything Ive ever done.
Its really the most important project Ive ever been on, Raddatz told ABC News' Chief White House Correspondent Jonathan Karl and Political Director Rick Klein Wednesday about her mini-series based on best seller "The Long Road Home: A Story of War and Family" The two-part series premiere, airing Nov. 7 on the National Geographic Channel, chronicles the events of April 4, 2004, when a platoon was ambushed in Sadr City, Baghdad, in an attack that came to be known as Black Sunday.
Sergeant Eric Bourquin, whose platoon was ambushed, recalled being under the impression that they were on a "peacekeeping mission."
I was a very young man and we were just doing a patrol out there, Sgt.
Bourquin, who was 23 years-old during the ambush, told ABC News Powerhouse Politics, adding, on the way back things changed dramatically for us.
A total of eight soldiers lost their lives on "Black Sunday," a battle during one of the deadliest periods of the Iraq War.
Actor and producer Jon Beavers who plays Sgt.
Bourquin, thinks the new series will affect the conversation.
It touches on the different humans, the different individuals that pay the cost of war, I think we as a country maybe need an update on what is the cost of war and who pays it, Beavers, also known for his roles in NCIS (2003) and Gotham (2014) said.
Despite the raw emotions portrayed on-camera, Raddatz said the last night of shooting was the most emotional night on set, as the mother of a soldier who was lost on Black Sunday, walked the set replicating the scene where her son died, alongside Raddatz and the actor playing her son.
The actor had his arm around her, I had my arm around her, holding hands, walking down that set, and I said Do you want to come off, do you want to take a break?
Raddatz recalled of the walk, adding, She said no, no, no ...
I want to see what he experienced, I want to be where he was ... she looked up into the sky of the set and said this is the last thing he saw.
But she said I think he was so brave.
Following the series finale, the National Geographic Channel will air a documentary produced by ABC News with Iraq war veterans.
Close to a month after the due date, the Trump administration has still not implemented the Russia sanctions that Congress passed nearly unanimously and Trump signed begrudgingly in August.
Interested in Russia?
Add Russia as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Russia news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The law, which also targets Iran and North Korea, called on the Trump administration to identify which Russian intelligence and defense officials would be targeted before Oct. 1.
Despite the delay, the White House said today it will implement the penalties.
"The Trump administration remains committed to holding Russia accountable -- and has on a variety of fronts," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement, citing in particular a "strongly worded statement" by U.S.
Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley.
"Treasury updated sanctions last month.
The State Department's portion is undergoing an interagency review and will be announced soon.
I'd refer you to the State Department for additional information," Sanders added.
That update from the Treasury Department was a formal first step to give the proper agencies the authority to designate individuals.
But the agencies have yet to use that authority.
Since then, the State and Treasury Departments have been working on identifying the Russian individuals and entities to list under the new sanctions.
In particular, the two agencies are still working together to develop guidance for partner countries and private companies to help them avoid violating the new sanctions, State Department officials told ABC News.
That's what's holding up implementation of sanctions, they say.
"We are being very careful to develop a guidance that companies need because there are business entities that need guidance," Secretary of State Tillerson said on CNN Oct. 15, adding, "We have every intention of implementing Congress's intent."
The former CEO of Exxon is keenly aware of the necessity of such guidance.
In July, Exxon was slapped with fines by the Treasury Department for violating other Russia sanctions, while he was CEO.
The delays have engendered lots of questions and anger from members of Congress.
Sens.
John McCain, R-Ariz., and Ben Cardin, D-Md.
-- top Republican and Democratic senators on foreign policy -- called out the administration in a letter earlier this month, demanding answers for the delay.
Theyve had plenty of time to get their act together, they wrote Oct. 11.
The House Democrats on the Foreign Affairs Committee issued their own scathing letter to Trump Wednesday night, calling the delay "baffling and unacceptable" and saying it "deepens concerns over your campaign's and Administration's ties to Russia."
"If the executive branch ignores its responsibility to keep our country safe, we as lawmakers in a coequal branch of government are obligated to take action," the group, led by the committee's ranking member Rep. Eliot Engel, D-NY, warned.
Sanction guidance doesn't normally take this long to develop, either.
The Iran portion of the law, which has an Oct. 31 date for implementation, is ready to take effect, a U.S. official told ABC News.
ABC News' Ben Siegel contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump lashed out at Democrats on Wednesday after a lawyers for Hillary Clintons campaign and the Democratic National Committee acknowledged helping fund the infamous dossier of alleged links between the Trump campaign and Russia.
Interested in Donald Trump?
Add Donald Trump as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Donald Trump news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest I think it's a disgrace, Trump said.
It's a very sad commentary on politics in this country.
On Tuesday, The Washington Post reported that Marc E. Elias, a lawyer who represented both the Clinton campaign and the DNC, retained the Washington-based investigative firm Fusion GPS to conduct research.
In a letter obtained by ABC News addressed to an attorney for Fusion GPS, Matthew Gehringer, general counsel for Perkins Coie, detailed his firms arrangement with Fusion GPS.
To assist in its representation of the DNC and Hillary for America, Perkins Coie engaged Fusion GPS in April of 2016, to perform a variety of research services during the 2016 election cycle, Gehringer wrote.
By its terms, the engagement concluded prior to the November 2016 Presidential election.
A full copy of the letter can be read below.
In August, ABC News reported that Fusion GPS was paid during the heated Republican primaries by a still unknown Republican and then later worked for Democrats, all of whom wanted to dig up dirt on Trump and plant negative news stories, according to political operatives.
The 35-page dossier, prepared by a former British spy and Moscow station chief named Christopher Steele, alleges the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians, and includes uncorroborated, salacious allegations about Trump himself, which he has repeatedly denied.
Its all fake news, Trump said.
Its phony stuff.
It didnt happen.
Between June 2015 to December 2016, the Clinton campaign paid Perkins Coie $5.6 million in legal fees, according to campaign finance records examined by the Washington Post.
And since since November 2015, the DNC paid the firm $3.6 million in legal and compliance consulting.
It is not possible to know how much of those funds were passed on to Fusion GPS.
As Trump fumed, Democrats defended the campaign and the committee.
Former Clinton campaign spokesperson Brian Fallon said the Democrats did nothing wrong.
I think it's important to remember that opposition research happens all the time in the campaign, Fallon said on CNN.
Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif., said the content of the document is more important than the circumstances behind its creation.
Its important to know who paid for it, Swalwell told ABC News.
But it is also important to know if whats in the dossier is true.
The DNC, meanwhile, distanced itself from the reported revelation, saying its new leaders were not involved in the decision to retain the investigative firm.
Tom Perez and the new leadership of the DNC were not involved in any decision-making regarding Fusion GPS, nor were they aware that Perkins Coie was working with the organization.
But lets be clear, there is a serious federal investigation into the Trump campaigns ties to Russia, and the American public deserves to know what happened, said DNC communications director Xochitl Hinojosa.
The identity of the initial Republican funder of the dossier, however, remains a mystery.
Republican House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes approved a subpoena earlier this month that would force the bank handling finances for Fusion GPS to open up its books, which could force the identity of that initial client into public view.
In response to questions today from ABCs Cecilia Vega, President Trump hinted that the identity might not remain a mystery for much longer.
I think I would have, if I were to guess, I have one name in mind, Trump said.
It will probably be revealed.
The president came to power by accident, a populist, out of the mainstream of the party that nominated him, and believed by many to be a racist.
His name was Andrew Johnson and he escaped removal from office by impeachment by one vote in the Republican senate.
In looking for an historical parallel to the statements this week of prominent Republican senators about the president of their partythe example of Andrew Johnson is the closest I can come.
Sure, there have been lots of senators who have opposed their partys presidents think Ted Kennedy running against Jimmy Carter in 1980.
But to have this kind of denunciation of a presidents character by high-ranking members of his own party is virtually unprecedented.
Andrew Johnson, of course, came to power after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln.
He had been a Democrat but an ardent Union man who refused to secede from the Senate with his home state of Tennessee.
When Lincoln sought a second term his re-election was far from certain and he needed the support of Union Democrats so he chose Johnson as his running mate.
The new vice president disgraced himself at the inauguration by showing up drunk (his defenders insisted that he was ailing) and he was dismissed by the powers in Washington as an irrelevancy.
But just weeks after he assumed his position as the number two in government, he ascended to number one.
At first the Radical Republicans in Congress thought they could work with him because of his populist positions and his disdain for secession.
They had been ready to take on Lincoln for what they saw as his temporizing on Reconstruction.
But those Republicans soon found that Johnson was even less willing to impose any punishment on the southern defectors than Lincoln had been.
The president opposed his party on measure after measure but the Republicans had enough votes to defy Johnson and pass the all-important 14th and 15th amendmentsextending the protections of the federal government to the states and granting African American men the right to vote.
Finally, Johnsons persistence in opposing the Republican majority paved the way to impeachment proceedings.
After the House voted to impeach and the trial in the Senate began, the assumption was that the president would soon be looking for work.
There were more than enough Republicans to constitute a two/thirds vote for conviction.
But it didnt happen.
Every one of those Republicans had his own political reasons for wanting Johnson, whom they universally despised, either to stay or go.
(The highly influential daughter of the presiding Chief Justice Salmon Chase was said to oppose Johnsons ouster because his wife was a nonentity and with her in the White House Kate Chase Sprague could rule the Washington social scene.)
I cannot agree to destroy the harmonious working of the Constitution, argued Iowa Senator James Grimes, for the sake of getting rid of an Unacceptable President.
That was perhaps the least self-interested reason for voting to keep Johnson in office, if true, but others in the Senate also had cause to stop short of the drastic step of removing a the constitutionally chosen chief executive.
So Johnson served out his term and returned to Tennessee where five years later he was re-elected to the Senate and briefly took his seat among the men who had voted to throw him out of office.
He died a few months later but died having defeated his enemies.
The speeches of Republicans opposing this president passionately and persuasively mark a meaningful milestone in the U.S. Senate.
But it would be a leap to assume that anything will come of it.
Republican tax writers on Capitol Hill are still considering changes to 401(k) retirement savings programs, downplaying President Donald Trump's repeated pledges not to touch retirement accounts popular with middle-class Americans in the GOP tax overhaul.
Interested in Donald Trump?
Add Donald Trump as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Donald Trump news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest At a breakfast with reporters this morning, House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, R-Texas, said tweaks to the current system are possible in the tax plan, which Republicans are expected to release on as early as Nov. 1.
We want more Americans to save more.
We want them to save earlier in their lives, Brady said, adding that congressional Republicans are exploring a number of ideas and share the same goal as Trump.
We are continuing discussions with the president, all focused on saving more and saving sooner, he said.
Kevin Lamarque/Reuters On Monday, Trump tweeted, There will be NO change to your 401 (k), amid reports that Republicans writing the sweeping tax bill are considering reduced contribution limits for 401(k)s. There will be NO change to your 401(k).
This has always been a great and popular middle class tax break that works, and it stays!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 23, 2017 He reaffirmed his position Wednesday, telling reporters that leaving the retirement savings plans intact is very important.
I didnt want that to go too far.
Thats why I ended it very quickly, he said of the 401(k) discussions.
Brady declined to comment on Trump's response to his comments, other than to point out that Trump called him "fantastic."
The emerging conflict between the White House and congressional Republicans over retirement savings highlights the challenges Republicans will face when they release their full proposal to overhaul the U.S. tax system.
Republicans are already steeling themselves for lobbying from interest groups opposed to changing existing tax law, and some are concerned that additional criticisms from the president could complicate their effort.
"I dont think the president knows exactly what were contemplating and how that would enhance savings in our country," Rep. Carlos Curbelo, R-Fla., another member of the House Ways and Means Committee, told reporters.
"I think when he said more changes he probably meant that he didnt want Americans to be worse off from any changes."
Rep. Dave Schweikert, R-Ariz., another member of the panel, said the ongoing discussions about changes to retirement plans are more complicated than Trump suggested.
"The president said something on this, but there's three- to four-dozen moving parts that are in this conversation," he said, inviting the White House to contribute to the policy debate.
A move to lower contribution caps to the plans, which are not taxed until money is withdrawn from them, could force more Americans to contribute to their retirement by putting money into plans that are taxed immediately.
The policy change would help pay for some of the tax cuts in the Republican plan -- which is crucial to moving the bill through Congress.
The House will vote Thursday on a budget resolution setting the parameters for the tax bill and clearing a procedural hurdle that will allow them to take up the legislation and pass it with a simple majority in the Senate.
Despite ongoing disagreements within the party over changes to state and local tax deductions, Republicans hope to pass the bill through the House by Thanksgiving and get it to Trumps desk by the end of the year.
The news that Republican Sen. Jeff Flake, a frequent critic of President Trump, has decided not to seek re-election in 2018 puts even more pressure on both parties to grab control of a seat that is crucial to the balance of power in the U.S. Senate.
Interested in Republican Party?
Add Republican Party as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Republican Party news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The Arizona senators penchant for taking shots at the president made him one of the GOPs most vulnerable incumbents in the 2018 midterms.
Flake was already facing an upstart primary challenger from the right and would have likely taken on one of the Democrats top recruits in Rep. Kyrsten Sinema if he had won the GOP nomination.
As of today, former state Sen. Kelli Ward is the only major Republican candidate in the race, and has earned Trumps praise for her willingness to embrace his agenda and attack Flake.
Great to see that Dr. Kelli Ward is running against Flake Jeff Flake, who is WEAK on borders, crime and a non-factor in Senate.
He's toxic!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2017 Ward, who also has the backing of former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, is viewed as unelectable by many in the Republican establishment who are keenly aware that Arizona is key to keeping their 52-to-48 majority in the Senate alive.
Responding to the news, the Senate Leadership Fund, a super PAC established by supporters of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., released a statement bashing Ward.
The one political upshot of Sen. Flakes decision today is that Steve Bannons hand-picked candidate, conspiracy-theorist Kelli Ward, will not be the Republican nominee for this Senate seat in 2018," according to the statement.
Al Drago/The New York Times/Redux, FILE It was also less than two weeks ago when McConnell himself emphasized that the GOPs nomination of electable candidates is essential to maintaining its majority.
My goal as the leader of the Republican Party in the Senate is to keep us in the majority.
And the way you do that is not complicated, McConnell said in the Rose Garden standing beside President Trump, You have to nominate people who can actually win, because winners make policy and losers go home.
The Flake announcement also sets off a fresh round of speculation on other potential Republican contenders for the seat.
Arizona State Treasurer Jeff DeWit, who worked on Trumps presidential campaign, Rep. Martha McSally, Rep. David Schweikert and Arizona Republican Party Chairman Robert Graham are among the names mentioned as candidates with a broader appeal than Ward.
Ward also garnered criticism when she said that Arizonas senior senator John McCain should step down from his seat as soon as possible after news that he had been diagnosed with brain cancer.
Christopher Brown/Polaris via Newscom, FILE McCain, who was first elected to the Senate in 1986, has said he will remain in the Senate as long as he is healthy and able.
But if McCain, 81, is unable to serve out the rest of his term through 2022, it would throw yet another wrench into Arizonas already complicated political climate.
Democrats have been eyeing Arizona as a prime pickup opportunity in 2018, a state that Trump won by less than 4 points in 2016, and the fact that the race is now an open seat, elevates the need to win there.
Sinemas entry into the race boosted national Democrats hopes of turning the seat blue, with the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC) quickly endorsing her after she announced her run last month.
The DSCC also looked to capitalize on the Flake news Tuesday.
"Senator Flakes retirement is another example of the divisiveness roiling Republican primaries, DSCC spokesman David Bergstein wrote in a statement.
These dynamics will continue to hinder Republican efforts in Arizona and whatever candidate succeeds in claiming their nomination will fall short of Kyrsten Sinema and her proven record of results for Arizona's working families."
But despite the optimism, Democrats face an undoubtedly tough road to win in a state that has not sent a Democrat to the U.S. Senate since 1988, then-incumbent Sen. Dennis DeConcini.
Former Vice President Joe Biden isn't ruling out running for president in 2020.
Interested in Joe Biden?
Add Joe Biden as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Joe Biden news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest "I havent decided to run," he said in an interview with Vanity Fair, "but Ive decided Im not going to decide not to run.
Well see what happens."
Biden previously ran unsuccessfully in 1988 and 2008, and was actively considering a 2016 run but decided against it after his son Beau Biden died from brain cancer in 2015.
In the interview with Vanity Fair, which was timed to be released with his new book "Promise Me, Dad," Biden said when Beau got sick there was "no question" in his mind that he was going to run in 2016.
"I had planned on running, and I wasnt running against Hillary or Bernie or anybody else.
Honest to God, I thought that I was the best suited for the moment to be president," Biden said.
As for the actual 2016 candidates, Hillary Clinton has already repeatedly ruled out another presidential run and President Donald Trump has already established a re-election team.
Biden, who campaigned for Clinton in 2015 and gave speeches including scathing rebukes of Trump, did not mince words when talking about him now, calling Trump "self-referential and uninformed," and Biden portrayed Trump as a threat to the country's principles.
"This sounds corny, Biden said in the Vanity Fair interview, "but everything the founders did was to erect institutions that made it more difficult to abuse power.
Thats why they have three different branches of government.
And what really worries me about this administration is the frontal attack on those institutions that, if they were lost, makes the abuse of power so much more available."
While their colleagues Jeff Flake and Bob Corker both excoriated President Donald Trump while announcing they would not seek re-election, many Senate Republicans have said they are confident that the two Trump critics decisions would not hurt the GOP's agenda.
Interested in Republican Party?
Add Republican Party as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Republican Party news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest Both Flake, R-Ariz., and Corker, R-Tenn., have expressed concerns about the general direction of the GOPs top legislative priority, tax reform, but have also indicated they would not vote against bills just to spite Trump.
J. Scott Applewhite/AP Some people think that we carry out our personal feelings on policy but that's just not what most of us, anyway, do, Corker said Tuesday.
Ive got a job as a senator to do the best that I can.
Flake said Wednesday that hed worked with Trump on judicial nominees and hopes to work with him on tax policy and on addressing the legal status of the children of undocumented immigrants in the United States.
Those sorts of statements leave many of Corker and Flakes colleagues confident that their retirement announcements dont instantly put tax reform, or any other bills, in jeopardy.
I think they will work with the president where they can in spite of the concerns about the way he handles himself, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said.
But their openness to the tax reform bill, which is still the subject of negotiations in both the House and Senate, doesnt mean they have put rubber stamps on that or any other piece of legislation, either.
Flake told ABC News Wednesday that he understands some growth-triggering tax cuts might lead to short-term deficits, but that he is concerned about the long-term impacts.
I am extremely concerned about our debt and our deficit and so were going to have to look at the package and see what it does, he said.
Corker has been more categorical than Flake, saying earlier this month that he would vote against a tax bill unless it reduces deficits.
Corker and Flakes announcements certainly dont make the math for Senate Republicans any easier: They can only afford to lose two of their 52 members and still pass tax reform, given its consideration under a lowered, 51-vote threshold and Vice President Mike Pences power as a tiebreaking vote.
Three Senate Republicans have already demonstrated their willingness to vote against a major presidential priority.
Sens.
Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Susan Collins of Maine and John McCain of Arizona tanked the Senates so-called skinny health care repeal and are far from sure yes votes on tax reform.
Plus, besides tax reform, most other big bills will be considered under a 60-vote threshold, meaning that Republicans will have to get at least a few centrist Democrats on board.
But Senate Republicans appear convinced that their two outspoken colleagues will vote no differently now than they would have before announcing their retirements.
I dont expect any difference in the pre-announcement Flake from the post-announcement Flake, Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said.
Transcript for Trump expresses optimism on tax reform To the white house now where president trump is pushing hard for tax cuts ahead of today's crucial vote in the house.
In an interview he struck an optimistic note.
I think the house is looking re really good.
Passing this bill along rapidly.
That will happen hopefully today and did want to make a couple of calls.
I said, fella, please, no changes, just pass it along.
Let's bring in Cecilia Vega and, Cecilia, the president optimistic but we're already seeing a tug-of-war over 401(k)s. Reporter: Yeah, George, but so have sources I've spoken to are not as optimistic as the president on this one.
The president said definitively there will be no changes to your 401(k) But the top Republican on capitol hill, the person writing this tax reform plan says, no, actually there could be some changes under consideration, some sharp limits to what employees can contribute to their retirements.
Here at the white house yesterday president trump seemed to muddy the waters yet again and said actually 401(k)s could be used as a negotiating tool as Republicans are debating and trying to figure out how to pay for his tax reform plan.
The big deal right now, George, president trump needs Republicans in order to pass this but he's already alienated and frustrated some of his allies on his continual mixed messages on this one.
Everyone wants tax cuts.
Always differences in how to pay for it, as you said.
Meantime, the president could make a major announcement previewing for some time an emergency on the opioid crisis but there's some nuance there.
Reporter: Yeah, this is something he campaigned on.
He first promised to declare a national emergency on this months ago.
Sources here at the white house tell us that today the president will deliver what's being billed as a pretty big address on this topic.
But he's not expected to declare the more sweeping national health emergency.
He's going to call this a public health emergency.
His own opioid commission had declared -- had recommended that he use the bigger phrase on this one.
Nonetheless, though, George, experts are applauding it as something much needed.
Drug overdose is the leading cause of accidental death in this country and a majority of that relates to opioids.
No question it's a national crisis.
Now to those highly anticipated documents about This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Trump says he will allow release of JFK assassination files A White House official said later that the release of the files could be held up if national security or law enforcement agencies believe that is necessary.
Transcript for Trump responds amidst searing attacks from 2 Republican senators And we begin with president trump, tonight responding, after coming under attack from two senators in his own party.
The president was asked if he accepts any blame of the civility oshgs lack thereof in politics right now.
And the president tweeting about a stand og vags he received from Republican senators as proof they are not fractured.
Here's ABC's senior white house correspondent Cecilia Vega, leading us off.
Reporter: At the white house today, with his character under fire from fellow Republicans, president trump brushed aside questions about whether it's time for him to be more civil.
Well, I think the press makes me more uncivil than I am.
People don't understand.
I went to an ivy league college, I was a nice student, I did very well, I'm a very intelligence person.
Reporter: It comes in the wake of blistering attack from two prominent Republican senators who are not running for election.
Tennessee's Bob corker accuses president trump of debasing the country.
And Arizona's Jeff flake delivered this scathing rebuke on the senate floor.
Reckless, outrageous and undignified behavior has become excused as telling it like it is.
Reporter: Do you agree with that, do you bear any responsibility for that?
Well, I think it's sad, but I think to a large extent in all due respect, I think the media causes a lot of it, but politics is a rough business, there's no question about it.
Reporter: The president's message, everything is just fine.
His party loves him.
His proof?
The standing ovation he received from Republican senators on capitol hill.
He's now tweeted about it three times.
With corker and flake out, are there any other Republicans you want to see out of the senate?
Not at all.
Reporter: Everybody is where they should be?
We have a very good relationship.
Honestly, the Republicans are very, very well united.
Reporter: Now, he especially needs them to be united on tax reform.
But his mentioned messages on how to pay for those tax cuts frustrate even his own allies.
The president has said definitively, there will be no changes to your 401(k), but today, the top Republican writing the tax plan said actually there could be changes, including limits on how much people can contribute to that retirement fund.
When asked about that, the president said this.
401(k)s to me are very important and they're important because that's one of the great benefits to the middle class.
Reporter: But then, just seconds later, a muddied message.
Well, maybe it is and maybe we'll use it as negotiating, but trust me.
So, let's get to Cecilia Vega live from the white house.
And Cecilia, the president also spoke today about that ambush that killed four American special ops soldiers in Niger, saying for the first time that he did not specifically authorize the mission himself.
Up asked the president about his phone call with the widow of one of those soldiers, sergeant la David Johnson.
That widow saying the president didn't seem to know her husband's name.
Here's how he answered it.
I respect her.
I respect her family.
I certainly respect la David.
He who, by the way, I called la David right from the beginning, just so you understand.
They put a chart in front, la David, says la David Johnson.
So, I -- right from the beginning, there's no hesitation.
One of the great memories of all time.
There was no hesitation.
Great memories, talking about the chart in front of him.
The president seeming to question the widow's account.
Reporter: He is, and sergeant Johnson's wife said the phone call made her cry even more.
He is continuing to refute her account of the story.
Today he said, quote, all of these calls are about warmth and nobody has more respect for the families than he did.
David?
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jeff Flake to exit Senate, blasts Trump Speaking of taking a stand against bullies Arizona senator Jeff flake announced he will not seek reelection in a speech where he called out what he feels is wrong right now in politics.
Personal attacks.
The threats against principals, freedom and institution, the flagrant disregard for truth and decency.
The reckless provocations most often for if pettiest and most permanent reass, reasons having nothing to do with the fortunes of the people we have been elected to serve.
It is often said children are watching.
Well, they are.
What are we going to do about that?
Mr. President, I rise today to say enough.
Is this good?
Is this bad?
Are people waking up?
What's happening do you think?
I have so much to say about this.
Stop me when you want me to stop.
We'll stop you at commercial.
Steve Bannon this is a big win and success for him.
He said he's out for scalps with establishment Republicans.
This is a big sacrcalp for him.
Jeff flake is a truly decent man.
He was an arrive dent anti trump er.
He wrote about how he couldn't get behind this trump is populism.
Conservative media is thrilled.
This speech could have been like Nancy Pelosi.
It's this lens what's happening within the Republican party.
There's a very intense divide about the Reagan people of the past and the trump pop lists of the future.
The Bannon nights too.
It's a much different turn in traditional conservative beliefs.
It was important to point out Jeff flake was not popular in Arizona.
He only won by 3% in 2012.
The candidate put up now is straight out of Steve Bannon's playbook and had a big rally about the future of trumpism.
Does that mean he didn't run because he couldn't win or is he making the stand he saw during the Mccarthy era when the senators stood up and say have you no decency sir?
What is the distinction ere?
We haven't seen Mitch Mcconnell walk out.
He said they're back to our agenda.
We need to get these tax cuts on the books so we accomplish something.
They'll swallow anything trump does.
Have no doubt if you're Jeff flake, Paul Ryan -- These are never trumpers in your view.
Paul Ryan was not a nerve Trumper.
He's a sometimes a Trumper.
On this show I'm the skefl but I'm not a Trumper pop list.
I have many issues with him.
I feel pressure to depend his supporters and defend him.
They are technically my tent of the party.
You're sort of put in this position you have to apologize for things.
I was Jeff flake has 93% approval righting and 96% with club for growth.
If you don't hedge into populism -- If all he's moderate Republicans -- He's not moderate.
What do you want to call him?
Nontrumpers.
If all the nontrumpers leave all you have left is the Bannon trumpers.
That's what happens happening.
Then if the docrats can come up with somebody good can wipe the floor with them.
No.
Why not?
We saw when Bannon backed Roy Moore in Alabama, that man in my mind despicable.
Dangerous.
If we get some of the good ones and they're leaving and people like you said you can get behind this guy.
Trump has an 84% approval rating with Republicans.
I am the deep minority.
Trump has 84%.
Yes.
That's true.
I don't know if this is a tipping point.
I think that Jeff flake didn't want to -- to say I know Arizona politics well and what it takes to get elected.
My father had a very hard race.
He won double digits against the woman running against flake.
Why could your father win and not flake?
I hope Jeff would have taken this on.
It's an important time to have people like him.
When you have the president of the United States -- this is highly unusual to come out against candidates and attack them -- His own people.
It's abnormal.
Highly unusual.
Highly historically -- Is he a hero for what he said this is abnormal I'm not going to stand for it or should he have stayed there.
I think he said he's going to put his principals before the party.
Should he have stayed there and fought?
Somebody people that's not what they do.
He has very specific things he thought he was going to be able to do.
He's unable to do them because he's fighting his own party and the rhetoric.
I have to say I don't know him.
I salute him.
I've been waiting for somebody to say this swamp is too mucky for me.
Bob corker too.
End on this.
This is a big win for president trump.
It's a big win for Steve Bannon.
It's a big win for trumpers.
It's only a big win you guys if your person gets in.
I think given all the stuff -- we got a lot of smoke and mirrors.
People are not letting y'all get away with what happened in Niger.
They are paying attentiattention.
They want some answers.
It might be a win because they have him moving.
You've still have to win the next thing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump talks to reporters before trip to Texas Your watching footage from just moments ago president trump there at the White House speaking to reporters on his way out of Washington ten.
I'm Mary Alice park stretching ABC news president trump is leaving Washington to go to Texas to get an update on.
Hurricane Harvey relief and also to do some fundraising and talked to members of the Republican National Committee.
Down in Texas he was answer questions on a wide range of issues talking about ongoing fights against ices in Africa again defending an arguing.
About that condolence call with them but widow of the fallen soldier again.
Arguing that he was respectful during that phone call and kind that he did mention when David Johnson's name from the start.
That obviously the big bulk of the conversation at the top dealt with politics.
In the Republican Party I'm joined and I calling Johnny were hold it here in Washington also who works with me.
In the politically unit at John it was struck by the fact that he said.
That ad that that the GOP has great unity.
In the party he said they were not as much a mess as the Democrats this coming just the day after obviously to top Republican senators.
Speaking out against the president's.
Integrity and character.
What do you think it's he seemed just.
In denial.
Well you know I am sure you there's player Republicans publicly held at if you talk to them that might dispute the president the Kabul a bit but.
I was struck by the fact that the president acknowledged that he still needs these two senators who still leads Jeff flake hastily Bob Corker to pass things like.
Tax reform like yeah immigration like Health Care Reform.
And it seems that he is a president that you know it's as he was willing to put aside sort them or personal nature.
Of late and corporate attacks because if you listen to corker speech and if you listen to.
You know corporate being interviewed on the help partner persists today they have some very personal words for the president.
And this seems like a president who realizes how much is riding on his legislative agenda like tax reform he knows that the Republican Party needs something to Ron on.
In 28 team and so you know I thought it was interesting that he was willing to put aside the fact that.
Jeff lake's speech and bop or resorts yesterday more avert personal.
Attack on the president and what they view.
That's.
His brand of politics and out out of lockstep with their view of conservatism so I think it's the president that realizes how important it's going to be to pass things like tax reform and other legislation.
And right I think you raise a really interesting point.
Giant that's that Bob neither Bob Parker nor Jeff likely talked about policy in their remarks they didn't disagreed with the president's.
Make America green agenda mean we know that Bob corporate had some issues with.
Some tax reform proposal as he's a fiscal conservative that wants to make sure that.
Tax reform does not add federal deficit but these are two Republicans who are very conservative when it comes to policy and have by and large voted.
With the president you're right instead that their speeches yesterday at her interviews yesterday really.
Were abouts the integrity of this president his character.
Do you think that he will be in the president's from will be able just to dismiss that continued to dismiss Saturdays those personal questions going to go away.
Right I think you know it.
That's are discussing you know over the past couple days it is very rare to see these types of tax I think that the president.
You know he responded to play country where this morning pointing out his is low poll numbers again he talked about flakes poll numbers again there.
Think that you know I think this is a president that I like he said whenever he views.
You know some something that's set about and that's false he's going to counter punch.
I think when it comes to.
Realizing.
The fact that his legislative agenda is not going.
To get past unless he has the support of up the entire Republican caucus.
I think you will sort of see him sort of shrug this off and you saw you did see some Republican senators come out yesterday like senator Kenney from Louisiana today.
You know there worsened standing ovation there wasn't lot for the president in that room and sure there is in the Republican caucus but.
You know you still are going to have these what's is the Republican Party I don't think they're going to go away.
That really view that this presents brand of politics as out of step with what the Republican Party with conservatism so I think.
You know the presence not gonna laugh Twitter I don't think any time soon but you know I think we'll continue to sort of see him downplay it and in the coming months.
Ray your a he app silly tried to downplay talk about just politics and Jeff flakes poll numbers.
I guess the little bit of a chicken or egg question it was deathly poll numbers serve starting to shrink because of his.
I sort of in battle relationship but this president sometimes speaking out but often still voting with him.
I mean we've seen it Steve ban and that sort of dark clock how that is constantly hanging over.
Sort of more establishment Republicans and president trumps relationship.
C Bannon has threats into primary every single sitting Republican senator with the exception.
Of Ted Cruz.
And Mitch McConnell over the weekend said that that more anti establishment elements of the party has.
A history of nominating folks that just cannot win in the general election.
It redeeming I didn't really even deposit a year Johnnie do you think that that Arizona has the chance of going blue.
Although Democrats have a very high profile repute there and and reps senators Christensen about.
Who represented district it's just outside of Phoenix includes parts of Tempe so.
You know the Democrats believe.
And this was always going to be one of their prime pickup opportunities that the state that Hillary Clinton.
Only lost by a by about 3.5 points and that in the 26 election.
It's a state that's going to be key.
If Democrats have any any hopes.
Up taking back the senate and money team but.
You bring up a really good point ST ban in there and it's hard to find.
Better evidence sort of the B discord and deep divisions.
In the Republican Party than what Steve Bannon.
Is attempting to do it needs 201818.
Returns.
Like he said saying he's going to trying and and primary every single Republican incumbent.
You know it remains BC how successful he'll be in that effort he claimed victory and an Alabama and now it's sort of claiming victory for these.
Retirements from corker and flake so you know when it comes airs on its there's also a candidate there Kelly wart that Steve Bannon has gone and campaigned for so.
I think it remains to seen exactly how this'll play partners on I think there's a lot of time for other.
Republicans in the race but you know what you said.
You know there's there's.
It's it's hard to see a more stark example of the divisions but with Stevens.
A party.
I think our cut cap and folders is with us now their from the White House.
Hi Catherine.
Hi Marianne Smith so I want to ask you just about.
The mood at the White House the day after such a landmark day in Washington two top Republican senators.
Really rebuking the president and his character we were Diana talking about how personal.
Some of those conversations were yesterday on Capitol Hill what is the mood like.
There at the White House.
I mean just saw president for about fifteen minutes or so we came over here and talk to reporters about just not among other topics you know he views this.
I'm as a victory in his eyes along with the speed ban inside of this and but you know he pushed all this criticism from corker inflate you know of course none of the members again.
I'm he's on over there he always comes up.
Behind there to talk to us when.
He's in a Gooden added I'm so today you know the president inside the White House really viewing this as a victory for them but what.
His staff at others in the White House is there any acknowledgment of some of the substance.
Of the critique from those two senators conversations about.
Being untruthful about playing loose with the truth about reckless attacks me think about the power of some of those words that Bob Parker and Jeff flake used.
In their anxiety or any.
Retrospect action is taking place there or or or not at all.
You know as a good question because I see I feel like in any other administration there would be.
Just not but Mary Alice really mean you saw.
Sarah senator as I'm from the White House podium the other day say.
You know I think this this was a good thing when our Cecilia Vega asked in the Serra scanners if the president was.
Contributing to to this divisive rhetoric in American politics.
And she brushed that off so internally and Mary Alice I can belittle that there's.
Too much conversation about that you know you have these two senators on the hill who Wear crucial votes but in terms of the president in the White House they just don't particularly see now why they don't seat.
The president has divining.
America as dividing politics like these like these two senators say now of course the president will fight back as you guys are talking about earlier and her Johnny I'm saying you know somebody.
Hits in hill he'll hit back he just ten that a second ago on.
On the South Lawn so he clearly.
Some little offended by the rhetoric from what you think that he is done anything wrong or contributed.
Comes to this you know tune it to this dismissive.
I'm conversation.
Happen happening on Capitol Hill you know his his White House and and he is well site that he of their yesterday talk about.
On the budget to talk about his tax plan and a show of unity.
So the move over here in terms of those two senators.
It's it's pretty striking how there's not too much conversation about the president's actions possibly contributing.
That's moderate it was very interesting listening to the president.
Dismiss the idea of instability and on the press he said that the press portrays him in Iran lightened he's actually.
More visible person that he gets credit for.
Catherine I really appreciate you always bring your inside take it there from the White House and studied her over the all your Smart analysis.
You're watching ABC news and rewrite for the morning a political know it.
Every some morning you can sign up to get that and bring you we'll bring you all but live coverage happening here in Washington every day again I'm Mary Alice parks.
But ABC news.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump says 401(k)s are 'one of the great benefits to the middle class' And airport because that's what a big break.
That could go to the bar that fly ended it very web.
Get ready as bad as it but me.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'I was extremely nice' to widow of fallen soldier, says Trump after criticism of condolence call Isn't why isn't he was really upset by your phone call would you.
Collins I.
Like a lovely lady I've never.
Been there I've never met her but you sound like game.
Reported that would seem very happy I airplane you'll have reported that you talk other.
Say that.
I was.
Belied by the way moment David Wright from the beginning.
Eight yards.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump thinks Republican Party has 'pretty good unity' Well I think it's very sad what they've done with the stake dossier was made up.
And I understand they've stated tremendous amount of money had Hillary Clinton though is that I did the Democrats always denied it.
And now only because it's gonna come out in a court case they said yes they did it they admitted it there are embarrassed by it but I think it's a disgrace.
It's just really a very it's a very sad it's a very sad commentary on politics of this got.
I don't think so I think it's by the way it is we have.
Actually great unity of the Republican Party yesterday I was.
Well that's okay let you know that to do their thing we have great unity if you look at what happened yesterday at the meeting.
We had I guess virtually every senator.
Including John McCain we had a great conversation yesterday John McCain and myself.
About the military I think we had a big trip I call though love there was almost a love fest maybe it was a love fest.
But we are standing ovation.
There is great unity I mean if you look at the Democrats would Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton got to mess.
There's great unity of the Republican.
Well I think it's I bigots.
Sad but I think to a large extent it all due respect I think the media causes a lot of it.
Fake stories of being recorded a lot of bad things are being reported that are still ahead.
I think to a certain extent maybe I can blame the media but.
Politics is a rough business is no question about it I will say this I think the Republican Party has.
A verdict good unity when I look at that rove yesterday at lunch.
You value recorded and it very well there's been a review.
You gave it a very good report the fact is.
There was tremendous unity of that room and we're really unified where really unified auden.
What we want to do we want tax cuts for the middle class we want tax cuts for businesses to produce jobs biz break editing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump lashes out at GOP senator after he announced he's not running again Republican senator Jeff flake has the cleared his independence of the trump administration.
I rise today to say enough after an impassioned speech on the senate floor Tuesday.
Stop pretending that the Dick get degradation of our politics in the conduct of some in our executive branch.
Our normal.
He is predicting today that more Republicans may stand up to president trump Noah a lot of my coloreds have spoken out and I think a lot more well but in a series of tweets today the president disagrees writing Jeff flake with an 18% approval rating in Arizona said a lot of my colleagues have spoken out.
Really they just gave me a standing O but it's not just like senator Bob Corker has also been indicting president trump who he supported in the election.
He blamed him for the debasement of the nation and says he failed to rise to the occasion as president duties a role model to children United States now.
The constant non truth.
Telling.
Just the name calling the things I think the basement of our nation will be what he'll be remembered most for.
I'm bridal critiques from within the GOP comes at a crucial time for the president was trying to woo senators to support his tax plan.
But senate majority leader Mitch McConnell thinks that the intra party politics won't do real the Republican agenda if there's any thing that unified Republican.
It's doctor.
President trump is largely dismissing the critiques of those Republican senator saying that they wouldn't get elected.
And tweeting that they are now acting irked.
Want exactly BC news Washington.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Senate GOP moves to repeal consumer rule Corker in as well as flee joined most Republicans in coming together last night.
To have a victory too big banks vice president Mike Pence on hand to cast the tiebreaking vote.
In the senate to repeal an Obama Arab banking on that would've allowed consumers to sue banks in class action lawsuits.
Republicans argue the law would harm the free market but Democrats say with out of banks will avoid potentially billion dollar verdicts.
That would force them to change predatory and deceptive business practices.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump faces GOP criticism amid tax reform effort Jon Karl, this Republican revolt.
Will others follow?
Well, this is a revolt right now.
It's a revolt from some of the most respected names in the party.
You know, Jeff flake, corker, a committee chairman, the former presidents, John McCain but it is not a spam period.
I have spoken to many of these Republican senators who I know essentially agree with almost everything that Jeff flake said but they are not saying it publicly and aren't saying it publicly, robin, because they believe two thing, one going against Donald Trump could hurt them politically, could destroy them, flake was not going to win that Republican primary in Arizona and they also believe that he is the one who can sign their agenda.
When Mitch Mcconnell came before the senate yesterday, corker in the room, the president in the room, first thing he said it's because of Donald Trump we have Neil Gorsuch on the supreme court.
The message is you may not like what's going on personally but it's getting our agenda.
It's still his party.
But I got to tell you, a Republican party that has no room for a Jeff flake tore Bob corker or John McCain doesn't seem like a Republican party that can remain a majority party for long.
We learned yesterday that the DNC actually paid for some of that research that went into that dossier that's become so infamous after some Republicans paid to fund it during the primaries against trump.
We learned through an intermediary the Clinton campaign paid for the research that became the dossier and the democratic party.
What we don't know is who the Republican was and to me that's one of the great mysteries.
It started with a Republican foe of Donald Trump.
Have no idea.
Have no idea.
We can guess.
We have no idea.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Sen. Flake speaks out on Trump, re-election decision Now let's bring in Jeff flake joining us from the capitol.
Thanks for joining us.
Boy, you've heard the white house.
Sarah Sanders calls your speech petty.
Steve Bannon, an ally of the president, another day, another scalp and the ap is privately taking credit for forcing you and corker out of the senate.
Have you been given victory from retiring?
I don't know if you can put it like that.
I couldn't run the campaign that I wanted to run and win in this kind of Republican party.
So I guess the president does deserve credit if you want to call it that.
So what happens next?
You say it's time for our complicity and accommodation of the unacceptable to end.
Right.
Bob corker aside, are your Republican colleagues now in the senate being complicit by staying silent?
No, a lot of my colleagues have spoken out and I think a lot more will.
What I tried to say in the speech is the longer we wait, the more we basically normalize this kind of behavior and these kind of politics and we can't do that.
We just can't.
We've gone nine months into the administration, those of us who hoped for a pivot I think agreed now it's just not going to come and so it's up to us to stand up and say this is not acceptable.
Are words enough, though, senator?
What should you and your colleagues be doing?
Well, certainly if the president proposes policies, if he acts on some of the threats he's made, for example, to go after the press, to go after the licenses of some of the networks that have been critical, then certainly we act.
So on policy if we must but certainly just to speak oil against the tweeting and the behavior that just isn't becoming and is beneath the office of the president.
It seems like as you say a lot of your colleagues may agree with you privately.
Some are speaking out as well but there's a pretty prevalent view the party has to stick together to get tax kits and I guess my question is, is that prize worth the price?
Well, I talk in the book I wrote earlier about the bargain that we seem to have struck on many of these issues and I think there is a risk if we continue to just ignore behavior that we shouldn't ignore and when the president is challenging norms that have been with us for a long time, particularly in the international realm, these have long-lasting imply indications that we simply shouldn't ignore.
And on that tax bill like senator corker will you oppose it if it increases the deficit?
Is that one of your principles, one of the dictates of your conscience?
I'm a supply citer.
I believe tax cuts produce economic growth so you might have some short-term deficits but I'm not an uncomfortabled supply citer and I am extremely concerned about our looming debt and our deficit and so we're going to have to look at the package and see what it does.
Finally how about the future of your fight against president trump.
Where does it go next?
Are you open to challenging him in 2020?
That's a long way away.
I'm focused on my next 14 months in the senate, making sure that we get some good policy, there are some things that I want to accomplish in the short term, certainly myself and senator Tim kaine are pushing an authorization for use of military force.
There's there DACA issue we need to do and broader immigration policy.
So I'm going to focus on those things.
But not ruling out a challenge in 2020.
You know, that's a long time away.
And we'll deal with that when it comes to it.
Senator flake, thanks for your time this morning.
Thank you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
House Republicans narrowly approved the Senate-passed budget resolution Thursday, clearing a procedural hurdle and allowing the House of Representatives to take up a tax overhaul.
Interested in Taxes?
Add Taxes as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Taxes news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The bill passed 216212, with all Democrats and some Republicans opposing the measure.
Speaker Paul Ryan cast a rare vote in favor of the measure, highlighting the significance of the vote.
The president applauded the House for "fulfilling its obligation to the American people" in passing the budget and said he looks forward to "further cooperation with Congress," according to a statement from the White House.
"This resolution sets the stage for Congress to put America first by providing economic relief for the American people in the form of tax cuts and tax reform," the statement read.
A group of New York and New Jersey Republicans opposed the bill out of concerns about possible changes to state and local tax deductions in the GOP tax plan to be formally proposed down the line.
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi bashed the bill as a "massive con."
Republicans are carrying out a massive con on the American people with their #GOPBudget & #BillionairesFirst tax plan.
Nancy Pelosi (@NancyPelosi) October 26, 2017 While the nonbinding $4 trillion budget plan would add $1.5 trillion to the deficit over the next decade, all but the most strident deficit hawks voted for the measure, abandoning GOP orthodoxy for their once-in-a-generation effort to rewrite the tax code using reconciliation, which allows for a simple majority vote in the Senate, in lieu of the usual 60-vote threshold, for passage.
President Donald Trump has made that argument, pitching the possibility of a tax overhaul to members this week as he rallied support for the budget resolution.
He said, Tom, just hold your nose, close your eyes and vote yes, Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., said of Trumps message in a phone call last Sunday.
I think thats how a lot of guys are approaching it.
After their failed efforts to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act this year, political considerations also trumped longstanding policy concerns for some members of the party.
There wasnt a win in health care, and the base is frustrated, Rep. Mark Sanford, R-S.C., who voted against the measure, told ABC News.
If there isnt some sort of win, I think there will be repercussions in 2018.
Republicans will release the details of their tax plan next week, and hope to send the measure to the Senate by Thanksgiving.
GOP tax writers still have a number of issues to resolve before releasing the proposal, including any changes to the state and local tax deductions, and potential changes to 401 (k) plans, despite President Trump's pledge not to touch retirement savings accounts.
House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wisc., declined to weigh in on the debate between Trump and GOP tax writers, who argue that changes to retirement savings accounts are needed to help pay for the proposed tax cuts.
"I agree with comprehensive tax reform and giving the committee the latitude they need," Ryan told reporters Thursday.
Trump says he will allow release of JFK assassination files A White House official said later that the release of the files could be held up if national security or law enforcement agencies believe that is necessary.
Image copyright PA The UK government wanted to set up an internal warning system to monitor and react to decisions made by President Donald Trump, emails show.
The emails reveal concerns about the impact of Mr Trump's travel ban on UK citizens and national security.
Officials did not want to be caught out by similar orders issued by the US president "just as London is going to sleep", one official said.
The emails were released to the BBC under the Freedom of Information Act.
The BBC's Diplomatic Correspondent James Landale said: "These emails show just how concerned the Foreign Office was about the flow of unexpected announcements emerging from the Trump White House and the potential impact on the UK."
"But we have to remember that this concern was also shared by other parts of the US administration that were at times equally blindsided by the president's early morning tweets," added our correspondent.
"So the emails do not reflect any particular deterioration in UK-US relations.
They illustrate the kind of steps foreign governments have had to consider to cope with Mr Trump's unpredictable style of government."
Most of the emails released to the BBC were between the British Embassy in Washington and the Foreign Office around the time of Mr Trump's executive order halting all refugee admissions and temporarily barring people from seven Muslim-majority countries.
The order, signed on 27 January, was one of string of decrees, proclamations and orders issued by Mr Trump during his first weeks in the White House.
It was signed hours after Prime Minister Theresa May became the first foreign leader to meet Mr Trump at the White House.
Foreign Office officials feared the ban would prevent thousands of UK citizens with dual nationality travelling to the United States and discussed the likely impact of that on relations between Mrs May and the new president.
"BE (British Embassy) Washington have been trying to get clarity from State (The State Department) without luck so far," officials said in an internal Foreign Office email dated 28 January - the day after Mr Trump signed the order.
"If true, this would obviously mean thousands of dual nationals with British passports being banned from travelling to the US.
Not great after the PM visit."
Another email, on the same day, said: "The dual nationals angle will of course be really difficult for us.
I'll come back to you when I have more on our response."
In the end, the new restrictions did not apply to British citizens with dual citizenship, but officials were keen not to be caught out again by the actions of President Trump.
Image copyright Reuters On 30 January, Kara Owen, director of the Americas desk at the Foreign Office sent an email around the Foreign Office, including to the deputy British ambassador to the US Patrick Davies, asking for a new warning system to be set up to look at the impact of Mr Trump's executive orders on British interests.
"Many of these orders will no doubt be issued just as London is going to sleep," she said.
"I would like us to establish a system for assessing impact of the orders on U.K. interests (if any) and offering quick advice on what to do about it to the right readership (including senior readers in FCO and Whitehall, press and private offices)."
She added: "I would welcome any other predictions about EOs (executive orders) foreshadowed during the campaign and likely to touch on our interests - he is doing a lot of what he said he would."
The documents also reveal the EU contacted the Foreign Office to check whether Britain was attempting to get a special deal for its citizens in the aftermath of Mr Trump's travel ban - and concerns about the impact on national security.
In one exchange, the Home Office's international director, Richard Clarke, discusses "potential UK activism/adverse reaction" in response to the travel ban, with officials at the Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism.
Also released was a heavily redacted analysis of the first three weeks of the Trump presidency, including a section entitled "Video killed the radio star".
The documents reveal civil servants expected a change in Theresa May's friendly outlook towards the US President should British citizens be banned from entering the United States.
"You might have seen that the PM didn't engage on the question on Trump's immigration policy saying they were for the US," said one official, referring to Mrs May's press conference in Turkey on 28 January, when she was questioned about the policy.
"Presumably that changes if Brits (ie dual nationals) are blocked from entering the US?," replied another official.
The document warned that questions on whether the government explicitly supported US immigration policy were a "bear trap".
The emails also show Foreign Office also struggled with the weight of communications from MPs in the aftermath of the US President's executive order.
One official complained of "yet another UQ (Urgent Question to be answered in Parliament)", in reference to a question put by former SNP MP Stuart Donaldson requesting a statement on the impact on the ban on British citizens.
In addition, the emails revealed which journalists and public figures the FCO paid particular attention to.
Tweets from The Guardian's Anushka Asthana and Alan Travis, Steve Hawkes of The Sun and Jack Blanchard, then of The Mirror, were circulated with Foreign Office updates.
The European Union is preparing for the UK to leave without a deal, a senior official has said.
Stefaan De Rynck said Brussels did not want a "no deal" scenario but it was braced for one.
Mr De Rynck is an adviser to EU chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier.
He dismissed claims by David Davis that the EU would push talks on a deal to the wire saying the bloc did not want to "add risk" to the exit process by "playing with time".
Davis warned over Brexit vote promise "Brexit is a process we want to manage in a calm and rational way," Mr De Rynck told a seminar at the Institute for Government think tank in London, adding that failing to reach a deal would harm both sides.
He said: "There is a clear negative impact from no deal, I think that that is clear, for both sides but especially for the UK economy.
But it is not a scenario people want to work towards.
"We are preparing for it, that is for sure, at 27 [the other 27 EU states] but it is not a scenario that we in the negotiation room want to bring in that negotiation room."
He added: "On going to the wire, we would certainly want to avoid that."
'Very quickly' As it stands, the UK will leave the EU in March 2019 whether it agrees a deal on the terms of withdrawal or not.
Prime Minister Theresa May has said she believes the two sides will reach a deal but the UK must prepare for all eventualities.
The so-called divorce bill, the amount the UK will pay to settle its liabilities when it leaves the EU, remains a major sticking point in negotiations.
Hopes that negotiations would move on to Britain's future relationship with the EU this month were dashed after EU chiefs said more work was needed first on the divorce talks.
Mr De Rynck said "sufficient progress is not far away" but the UK must set out how it believes the divorce bill should be calculated to end the deadlock over money.
"In terms of the guidelines for the future relationship as well as the possible transition, all of that can come very quickly," he said.
Earlier this month, European Council President Donald Tusk said the rest of the EU was not preparing for a no deal outcome.
"EU27 is not working on 'no-deal' scenario," he said.
"We negotiate in good faith and hope for sufficient progress by December."
MPs and their pooches have gathered for the annual Westminster Dog of the Year contest, organised by the Dogs Trust and the Kennel Club... Quiz and pictures by Tom Moseley
Image copyright Press Eye Image caption Ciaran McClean stood unsuccessfully for the Green Party in West Tyrone in the general election A legal challenge against the deal between the Democratic Unionist Party and the Conservatives has failed at the High Court in London.
The DUP agreed to support Theresa May's government in return for 1bn for Northern Ireland over five years.
Ciaran McClean, a Green Party member, argued the pact breached the Anti Bribery Act 2010.
Lord Justice Sales said the grounds relied on by Mr McClean were not "properly arguable in a court of law".
Mr McClean launched a crowdfunding campaign to finance the case, which he brought independently of political parties, in July.
Lord Justice Sales and Mr Justice Lewis heard the application for a judicial review on Thursday.
Dominic Chambers QC, acting for Mr McClean, told the court the confidence and supply agreement was unlawful as it "purchased" the political support of the DUP.
He said it was "unlawful because it makes provision for the expenditure of public funds for party political advantage".
The application was contested by both the First Secretary of State, Damian Green, and the Attorney General.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Under the deal, the DUP guarantees its 10 MPs will back the government on legislation relating to Brexit and national security In a written submission to the court, James Eadie QC for the government argued that the criminal law of bribery does not apply to a confidence and supply agreement between political parties.
"The allegation that the agreement entails public expenditure which is unlawful is misconceived because the expenditure contemplated by the agreement will have appropriate parliamentary authorisation," he wrote.
After the verdict, Mr McClean told the BBC that he is considering an appeal.
"We put the most serious charges to any government in modern times and the consequences of that could have been the fall of the government and the government finding themselves in the dock," he said.
"I don't think that was ever going to happen.
But I think it was still right to get this aired."
His solicitor, David Greene, is a senior partner at London-based Edwin Coe solicitors, who represented hairdresser Deir Tozetti Dos Santos, one of the claimants in the successful Brexit challenge in the Supreme Court.
Following the judgement, lawyers representing the government were awarded full costs.
Lord Justice Scales said it was "not appropriate for the burden of costs to be borne by the taxpayer".
Under the confidence and supply arrangement, the DUP guarantees that its 10 MPs will vote with the government on the Queen's Speech, the Budget, and legislation relating to Brexit and national security - while Northern Ireland will receive an extra 1bn over the next two years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Tory-DUP deal came two weeks after June's election resulted in a hung Parliament While rival parties in Northern Ireland have largely welcomed the additional funding, concerns have been raised that the deal could undermine the peace process and devolution negotiations, with the UK government dependent on the support of the DUP.
The deal was also widely criticised by opposition parties in the UK.
Labour branded it "shabby and reckless", while the Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones called it a "straight bung" and said it "kills the idea of fair funding".
Image copyright Getty Images The UK's population is set to exceed 70 million before the end of the next decade, according to the Office for National Statistics.
The UK population was estimated to stand at 65.6 million in 2016.
The ONS projections are now for a 3.6 million, or 5.5%, increase over the 10 years to 2026, with the 70m mark being passed in the middle of 2029.
This is two years later than the ONS's 2014 projection that the UK population would pass the 70m barrier in mid-2027.
The reason for the change is that since the 2014 study the assumption of net migration of 185,000 a year has been cut to 165,000 a year, while the expected number of children per woman has been cut from 1.89 to 1.84 - with growth in life expectancy trimmed for men from 84.3 to 83.4 and for women from 87.1 to 86.2.
Andrew Nash, of the ONS Population Projections Unit, said: "Over that period 54% of growth is projected to result directly from net international migration.
The other 46% is because there will be more births than deaths."
Over the decade from mid-2016 projected growth in England's population is put at 5.9%, for Northern Ireland the figure is 4.2% while for Scotland and Wales the percentages are 3.2% and 3.1% respectively.
The figures, which do not take into account any Brexit impact, puts projected UK population growth between 2015 and 2040 at 16%, compared with 10% growth for France and 4% for Germany, while Italy's population is projected to see a slight decline.
The study also says that the numbers of people aged 85 and over with have doubled to from 1.6m in 2016 to 3.2m in 2041.
Analysis, by BBC Home Affairs Editor Mark Easton The Brexit vote has made calculating the growth of the UK's population much more difficult.
The level of net migration and, indeed, the potential emigration of young, fertile residents are dependent on the kind of post-Brexit agreement that emerges.
Nevertheless, the Office for National Statistics has had a stab at it and concluded that the UK population will not grow as fast as previously thought.
In 25 years' time, it believes there will be close to 73m people in the UK - some 2m fewer than they had thought before the EU referendum.
Net migration will be lower and so will the fertility rate with fewer young foreign-born women coming to live in the UK.
They also expect a slower rate of increased life expectancy than previously assumed.
The impact of Brexit is dependent on the kind of deal that emerges and what happens to the UK economy as a result.
Those factors will affect the numbers who wish to come and wish to leave.
The ONS thinks, annually over the next 25 years, net migration will fall by about 20,000 compared with previous forecasts.
But the uncertain nature of our politics makes these kind of projections fraught - particularly for those who use the data to make decisions about building roads and houses and transport infrastructure.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption David Davies says there is a "wider discussion" to be had about universities A Welsh Tory MP left a university seminar because he "wasn't going to be lectured on freedom of speech", having raised concerns about universities "belly-aching over Brexit."
David Davies defended Tory MP Chris Heaton-Harris, who asked universities for names of professors teaching Brexit courses and the content of lectures.
Mr Davies said later Mr Heaton-Harris "should have gone a lot further".
The Westminster seminar was on a survey on public views concerning Brexit.
The event was organised by Cardiff University.
On Tuesday, it emerged Mr Heaton-Harris wrote to universities asking for the names of professors "involved in the teaching of European affairs, with particular reference to Brexit" and for a "copy of the syllabus".
Of the eight universities in Wales, Cardiff, Bangor and Glyndwr confirmed that they were sent the letters whilst Aberystwyth said they had no record of having receiving it.
The remaining four universities have yet to respond.
In a tweet, Mr Heaton-Harris, a Eurosceptic MP and Conservative government whip, said: "To be absolutely clear, I believe in free speech in our universities and in having an open and vigorous debate on Brexit."
Downing Street said Mr Heaton-Harris had written to universities in his capacity as MP for Daventry and not as a representative of government.
Image copyright Conservative Party Image caption Chris Heaton-Harris says he believes in "open" debate on Brexit The issue was raised with Cardiff University's Vice-Chancellor, Colin Riordan, at the breakfast seminar meeting on Thursday morning.
Monmouth MP Mr Davies, sat at the front, intervened in what one described as a "pretty polite exchange of views" but others said was a "rant".
The Conservative MP defended his colleague's actions and argued that universities "shouldn't be promoting anti-Brexit views because they're publicly funded".
After a comment from former Labour Leader Lord Kinnock, David Davies left, saying he had "had enough of this".
'Eating croissants' Talking to BBC Wales after the event, Mr Davies said he "wasn't going to spend my morning with Lord Kinnock or being lectured by him on freedom of speech."
"Free speech is an issue that universities need to address and it's absolutely time that they realised that they are publicly-funded organisations that shouldn't waste their time belly-aching about Brexit.
"They haven't got the time to sit there drinking coffee and eating croissants and lecturing people in Parliament about anti-Brexit bias," he added.
A Labour MP present at the event said Mr Davies' departure "felt very staged", whilst another accused the Monmouth MP of having "turned up deliberately to make a fuss".
Speaking in the Senedd on Tuesday, First Minister Carwyn Jones said Chris Heaton-Harris' letter was "as authoritarian a request as could possibly be made."
"I suspect this gentleman would have a lot to teach Stalin," he added.
Image copyright HoC A Labour MP has spoken with painted nails in the Commons to raise awareness of modern slavery in nail bars.
Darren Jones, MP for Bristol North West, defended Avon and Somerset police officers who had done the same.
He said the force had faced a backlash from some newspapers.
The force's #LetsNailIt hashtag on social media used a series of tweets of male and female officers with painted nails to highlight the issue of modern day slavery.
Mr Jones said car washes and nail bars were a common location for modern slavery.
Image copyright Avon and Somerset Police Image caption Avon and Somerset Police posted pictures of officers with painted nails on social media to highlight the issue of modern day slavery "I share other members' concerns that the papers have reported a backlash against Avon and Somerset Constabulary for wanting to raise this issue on social media in a way that communicates to people in their daily lives to keep an eye out for where they see these things happening," he said.
In July this year the force raided a nail bar in Mr Jones's constituency and arrested four people for trafficking and slavery offences, he said.
Mr Jones said he could be the first male MP to have sported painted nails in the Commons.
He added: "It's not also an endorsement for Eddie Izzard for the Labour NEC."
The government is under pressure from rebel Tory MPs and Labour to guarantee a Commons vote on Brexit before the UK leaves the EU in March 2019.
David Davis denied "fudging" the commitment by suggesting on Wednesday such a vote could happen after that date if talks go to the wire.
He said he "fully expects" MPs to get a "meaningful" vote in time.
But ex-minister Nicky Morgan told him Tory rebels were "deadly serious" about getting the promise into law.
It comes as the government announced that MPs would begin detailed scrutiny of the EU Withdrawal Bill on 14 and 15 November.
Former education secretary Ms Morgan said the government could put the issue of a vote "beyond doubt" by backing an amendment to the EU Withdrawal Bill, which was tabled by former attorney general Dominic Grieve.
Citing reports that Mr Davis did not think rebel Tories were serious about the amendment, she said: "Can I tell him we are deadly serious, and it would be better for the government to adopt a concession strategy on having a withdrawal agreement secured by statute sooner rather than later for all concerned."
In reply, the Brexit secretary said: "I won't pre-empt the discussions in the bill, but those reports are not true."
'Cast-iron guarantee' For Labour, Keir Starmer said: "More than three months after the repeal bill was first published, the government has finally found the courage to bring it back to Parliament for line-by-line scrutiny and debate.
Whether it will survive scrutiny remains to be seen."
He added: "Ministers must listen to the sensible demands made by Labour and some of their own MPs about what changes need to be made to the bill."
David Davis was summoned to the Commons on Thursday morning to explain comments to the Brexit committee on Wednesday, which suggested the vote could take place after March 2019.
At PMQs later on the same day Theresa May had to reassure MPs there would be a vote.
Sir Keir Starmer accused the government of saying "one thing one day, another thing the next", which he said was "not good enough".
He called for a "cast-iron guarantee" that MPs would get a vote.
Mr Davis denied any government commitments had been undermined by his comments, which he said had been misinterpreted.
He said he expected a "proper and meaningful" vote on any Brexit deal "at the right time".
'Take time' But he added: "Of course this vote cannot happen until there is a deal to vote upon, but we are working to reach an agreement on a final deal in good time before we leave the European Union in March 2019.
"Clearly we cannot say for certain at this stage when this will be agreed, but as (EU chief negotiator) Michel Barnier said, he hopes to get a draft deal agreed by October 2018 - and that's our aim as well.
"So we fully expect there will be a vote in the UK Parliament on this before the vote in the European Parliament, and before we leave the European Union."
He also insisted the choice for MPs would be "meaningful - whether to accept that deal, or to move ahead without a deal".
Referring to his appearance before the Commons Brexit Committee, Mr Davis said the government recognised the ratification of the Brexit agreement "will take time and could run into the implementation period".
He denied claims he had "fudged" the government's commitment to a vote before Brexit but added that he was not in control of the timetable of Britain's exit from the EU because "it's a negotiation".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 'It's a lot of weeks to wait' The six-week waiting time for universal credit should be cut and be a maximum of one month, MPs say.
The Work and Pensions Select Committee said the six-week wait before claimants receive their first payment was causing "acute financial difficulty".
It said reducing the delay - designed to mimic waiting for a first pay cheque for a new job - would remove a "major obstacle" to the policy's success.
Theresa May has said the government was listening and was making changes.
At Wednesday's Prime Minister's Questions, Mrs May defended the concept of universal credit, which she said was a "simpler" system that "makes sure work pays".
Universal credit, which rolls six working-age benefits into a single payment, is designed to make the system simpler and ensure no-one faces a situation where they would be better off claiming benefits than working.
But it has faced a backlash from some MPs, who fear payment delays risk pushing families into destitution.
Conservative committee member Heidi Allen said: "Despite the clear support for universal credit, there is cross-party recognition that the six-week wait does not honour the original intentions of the system.
"To truly represent the world of work, the payment cycle must mirror how the majority of people are paid i.e.
monthly."
The cross-party committee said advance payments could "mitigate some of the unwelcome consequences of the current design of universal credit, but they do not address their underlying foundations".
'Cruel' wait Its report concluded: "The baked-in six-week wait for the first payment in universal credit is a major obstacle to the success of the policy.
"In areas where the full service has rolled out, evidence compellingly links it to an increase in acute financial difficulty."
Work and pensions committee chairman Frank Field said the waiting period for the first payment was "cruel".
"Such a long wait bears no relation to anyone's working life and the terrible hardship it has been proven to cause actually makes it more difficult for people to find work," the Labour MP said.
Universal credit has been introduced in stages to different groups of claimants over the past four years, with about 610,000 people now receiving it.
Almost a quarter of all claimants have had to wait more than six weeks to receive their first payment in full because of errors and problems evidencing claims.
But the government recently approved a major extension of the programme to a further 45 job centres across the country, with another 50 to be added each month.
Image copyright Getty Images Harvey Weinstein could be stripped of his CBE following allegations of sexual assault made against the Hollywood producer, the BBC understands.
The removal of the honour is believed to be being "actively considered" by the government's Honours Forfeiture Committee for the first time.
He was awarded an honorary CBE for outstanding contribution to the British film industry in 2004.
Bafta has already suspended Weinstein's membership.
A Cabinet Office spokesman said forfeiture action "is confidential" and he could not comment on whether a specific case was being considered by the committee.
More than two dozen women - among them actresses Angelina Jolie, Gwyneth Paltrow and Rose McGowan - have made accusations against him including rape and sexual assault.
Weinstein insists sexual relations he had were consensual.
The latest claim against him came from actress and writer Brit Marling, who described an encounter in 2014 in which she claimed the movie mogul suggested they shower together.
A number of organisations have distanced themselves from the American.
The Oscars board voted to expel the 65-year-old, whose films have won 81 Oscars.
The British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Bafta) suspended him and said it hoped the announcement would send "a clear message".
A group of Labour MPs, including Jess Phillips and Chi Onwurah, have written to the prime minister calling for his CBE to be removed.
CBE stands for Commander of the Order of the British Empire and is a rank in the UK's honours system - one step below a knighthood.
Taking honours away, called "forfeiture", is done when someone is judged to have brought the honours system into disrepute.
The Honours Forfeiture Committee considers cases and the prime minister then sends recommendations to the Queen.
Honours stripped Previous recipients of honours to have had them removed include banker Fred Goodwin.
The former boss of the Royal Bank of Scotland was heavily criticised over his role in the bank's near-collapse in 2008.
Other high-profile cases include jockey Lester Piggott, who was stripped of an OBE after he was jailed in 1987 for tax fraud.
The former spy Anthony Blunt was stripped of his knighthood in 1979 for supplying hundreds of secret documents to the Soviets while a wartime agent for MI5.
Image copyright PA Theresa May has said she is confident there will be enough time for MPs to get a Brexit vote before the UK leaves.
During Prime Minister's Questions, she was pressed on comments by David Davis who earlier said a vote might not happen before the March 2019 deadline.
He said the vote's timing hinged on when a deal was done and this may be at the "59th minute of the 11th hour".
But Mrs May said she believed it would happen "in time for Parliament to have the vote we committed to".
The government agreed earlier this year to give Parliament a "meaningful" say on the outcome of the current negotiations but Downing Street has not said when it will be.
The Brexit secretary told a Commons committee it had always been the government's goal that the vote would take place before the European Parliament gave its own verdict, expected to be in late 2018 or early 2019.
But he said that "it can't come before we have the deal" and pressed on whether this might not happen before the end of March 2019, he replied "yes that's correct, in the event that we don't do the deal until then".
The comments have been seized on by Labour MPs one of whom - Stephen Kinnock - asked the PM how Parliament "could have a meaningful vote on something that has already taken place".
Mrs May said it was right that negotiations could continue right until the scheduled date of Brexit but suggested that it was in the interest of all parties to conclude them before then.
"It is not just this Parliament that wants to have a vote on that deal - there will be ratifications by other Parliaments," she said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Stephen Kinnock asks PM to explain how it is possible to have a "meaningful vote on something that has already taken place" "I am confident, because it is in the interests of both sides, that we will be able to achieve that agreement and negotiation in time for this Parliament to have the vote we committed to."
But Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell said ministers were making up policy "on the hoof on a daily basis" while Lib Dem spokesman Tom Brake said not to have a vote before Brexit would be "an insult to democracy".
Former Tory education secretary Nicky Morgan said it would be "completely pointless" to have a vote after the UK had left and was therefore pleased about the PM's reassurances.
"The danger of answering hypothetical questions as David Davis has done this morning is you end up in hotter water," she told the BBC's Daily Politics.
"The sovereign Parliament has to have a final meaningful vote."
But former Conservative chancellor Ken Clarke said he was not concerned about there being a vote before Brexit as the UK would leave anyway under the terms of the Article 50 process, which he voted against.
He told the BBC there was no way a trade deal would be agreed by March 2019 and until that happened - and Parliament approved it - the UK would remain signed up to whatever transition deal came into force.
'High stress' The government, Mr Davis told MPs, was aiming to conclude all its negotiations - including a future trade deal - by the time of its withdrawal and while this was perfectly feasible, it could be a close-run thing.
"It is no secret that the way the union makes its decisions tends to be at the 11th minute... 59th minute of the 11th hour of the 11th day and so on and that's precisely what I expect to happen here."
"It will be very high stress, very exciting for everyone watching, but that's what will happen.
In technical terms, there is no reason why we can't do this in the time available...
I am quite sure in my mind we can do this."
Image caption Mr Davis suggested the talks could go up to the wire Under the terms of existing EU treaties, the UK would not be able to sign a trade deal with the EU until it becomes a "third party" and has left the EU.
Mr Davis said "technically" this was true, but that a deal could be signed almost immediately, or as he put it, "a nano second" afterwards.
The Department for Exiting the European Union released a statement afterwards clarifying Mr Davis's position, saying he had been asked about hypothetical scenarios and both the UK and EU hoped to finalise a deal by October 2018, giving time for Parliament to vote on it before the UK leaves.
On Monday, Mrs May suggested the two-year implementation period she was hoping for was dependent on details of the final "partnership" being clear at the time of exit.
This alarmed business groups, which warned earlier this week that the UK risks losing jobs and investment without an interim deal agreed much sooner.
Pressed on this during the hearing, Mr Davis said that by the first quarter of next year, it "should be pretty plain what we are trying to deliver" in terms of transition, which he said would look "much like" the status quo in terms of trade, migration and other arrangements.
However, he noted the EU had not yet drawn up their final negotiating guidelines on any transition and both sides needed to know what the UK's final destination would be before this was settled.
While the UK wanted a full trade deal, he said there was the possibility of what he described as a "bare bones" agreement where there were understandings in key areas but no over-arching agreement.
An outcome where the two sides were unable to agree anything was "off the probability scale", he added.
Image copyright House of Commons MP Jared O'Mara has been suspended by Labour while it investigates misogynistic and homophobic comments he is alleged to have made.
The Sheffield Hallam MP has apologised for online remarks from 2002 and 2004 but denies some more recent claims.
Labour initially said it would not be suspending the MP while these allegations were investigated.
But Jeremy Corbyn had decided to act when yet more comments emerged on Wednesday, a spokesman said.
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell told the BBC: "There will be a full investigation by the Labour Party and then, as a result of that, a final decision will be made about his future."
Asked about Labour colleagues who had defended Mr O'Mara in recent days, Mr McDonnell said: "They were basing that judgement on the information they had before them and the information that was provided to them by Jared himself and others.
"New information has come to light, so quite rightly the Labour Party has acted swiftly.
He's been suspended, the whip has been withdrawn."
Asked about the case at Prime Minister's Questions, Theresa May said: "All of us in this House should have due care and attention to the way in which we refer to other people and should show women in public life the respect they deserve."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says MPs should "should show women in public life the respect they deserve" On Monday, Mr O'Mara resigned from the women and equalities committee after political website Guido Fawkes unearthed offensive comments made by the 35-year-old MP online as a younger man.
Then on Tuesday, Sophie Evans told the BBC's Daily Politics she had met Mr O'Mara on a dating app and there had been "no hard feelings" when things did not work out between them.
But in an incident in March, Mr O'Mara, who was DJing in a nightclub, made comments to her that "aren't broadcastable" and called her an "ugly bitch", she said.
A spokesman for Mr O'Mara said the MP "categorically denies" the allegation.
'Wise move' The Guido Fawkes site has also found another post made by Mr O'Mara in his mid-20s, a review of an Arctic Monkeys gig, in which he calls women "sexy little slags".
And it has published details of a post to a music forum, allegedly made by Mr O'Mara in 2009, which includes offensive remarks about women.
Labour launched an investigation into Mr O'Mara's conduct on Tuesday, saying it was specifically looking at "comments and behaviour which have been reported from earlier this year".
But it has now said it is also looking at his online remarks from 2002 to 2004 and the newer alleged comments.
Labour's shadow education minister Tracy Brabin said Mr O'Mara's suspension was "probably a wise move".
Before the news broke, she had described his actions as "unpleasant and unacceptable", adding that the episode "doesn't look fantastic".
Conservative MP Mims Davies, chairwoman of the all-party parliamentary group for women in Parliament, said it was "right" that Mr O'Mara had been suspended over his "vile" comments.
But she added: "Why on earth has it taken so long?"
Pressed on why the party had waited until Wednesday to suspend Mr O'Mara, a Labour spokesman said the MP had gone to the Parliamentary Labour Party meeting on Monday night and made "a very thorough-going apology and talked about the journey that he'd been on.
That was welcomed."
But "new information about things that he'd allegedly written more recently" had emerged, prompting Mr Corbyn to take action.
The Labour leader had made clear "this kind of abusive, misogynistic, sexist language is completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated in the Labour Party," he added.
Image copyright Getty Images The government is set to drop plans to cap housing benefit for people living in social rented accommodation, Theresa May has announced.
From April 2019 the amount they get was to be made the same as those in private rented homes.
But providers of homes for people needing medical care warned it could put the vulnerable and elderly at risk.
At Prime Minister's Questions, Theresa May said full details of the new policy would be announced on Tuesday.
She added: "But I can also say today that as part of our response to the review, we will not apply the local housing allowance cap to supported housing.
"Indeed, we will not be implementing it in the wider social rented sector, and the full details will be made available when we publish our response to the consultation."
The PM was greeted with cheers as she announced the policy change, which came ahead of a Labour-led Commons debate on the issue.
'Cruel and heartless' Labour's shadow housing minister John Healey said: "Once again, Labour is winning the arguments and making the running on government policy."
He said the "devil will be in the detail, and the funding" of the government plans and his party would continue to press ministers to "protect the long-term future and funding of supported housing".
Plans to make social tenants get the same amount of housing benefit as private tenants - as dictated by the Local Housing Allowance (LHA) - were originally announced by then Chancellor George Osborne in 2015.
The Local Housing Allowance has many of the same rules as housing benefit, but there are some extra rules that limit the amount of help people can get for a private rented home.
Who would have been affected?
Housing association tenants would have borne the brunt of the planned changes, as they tend to have higher rents than those living in council houses.
A 2015 analysis by The Institute for Fiscal Studies found 800,000 households would lose an average of 1,300 per year.
Separate research by the National Housing Federation in 2016 suggested tenants claiming housing benefit in London would have faced the largest weekly shortfall.
About 14% of them would have been out of pocket to the tune of 31.59 a week.
The lowest losses would have been in the North-East of England, where 21% of tenants would have faced a 14.51 weekly shortfall, according to the NHF analysis.
The IFS said the policy would have saved the government 205m a year in 2018/19 rising to 375m in 2020/21.
There were concerns the plan could lead to rent arrears and increase the risks of people becoming homeless.
But most of the criticism has focused on supported housing, with concerns it would be made completely unaffordable.
Mrs May said the government needed to ensure the funding model was right "so that all providers of supported housing actually are able to access funding effectively" and to deal with recent increases in service charges.
David Orr, Chief Executive at the National Housing Federation, said: "I know all social housing tenants will be relieved with the news.
"Things are really starting to change and it is great to see social housing getting the right kind of attention it deserves."
Liberal Democrat MP Wera Hobhouse said: "This cap would have hit the most vulnerable in our society, including the homeless and victims of domestic violence living in shelters.
"It is right that the government has U-turned on this cruel and heartless policy."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jo Johnson is quizzed on Radio 4's Today whether Chris Heaton-Harris should have sent Brexit letter Tory MP Chris Heaton-Harris "should probably not have sent" a letter to universities asking for details of Brexit courses, a minister has said.
Universities minister Jo Johnson said his colleague, a government whip, was "regretting very much" his decision, He said the MP was "pursuing inquiries of his own" which may lead to a book on "the evolution of attitudes" to Europe rather than acting for the government.
Universities enjoyed "24 carat academic freedom" in the UK, he insisted.
Lecturers reacted with anger to the letter, calling it a "sinister" attempt to censor them and accusing Mr Heaton-Harris of conducting a "McCarthyite" witch hunt.
Downing Street distanced itself from the letter by Mr Heaton-Harris, a member of the pro-Brexit European Research Group of Tory MP, after he wrote to universities asking for the names of professors teaching Brexit-related courses and details of their syllabuses.
Mr Heaton-Harris has not said himself what his intentions were, but said he believed in "open" debate about the UK's departure from the EU.
'Misinterpreted' Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today Mr Johnson, who said he had spoken to Mr Heaton-Harris, said: "Chris was acting in an individual capacity as an MP rather than as a government minister Chris has a very longstanding interest in European affairs and the history of European thought.
"He was pursuing inquiries of his own which may, in time, lead to a book on these questions.
It was more of an academic inquiry rather than an attempt to constrain the freedom that academics rightly have."
Asked if the letter should have been sent, he said Mr Heaton-Harris "probably didn't appreciate the degree to which this would be misinterpreted".
He said: "I am sure Chris is regretting this very much.
The critical thing is that the government is absolutely committed to academic freedom and to freedom of speech in our universities.
"A letter which could have been misinterpreted should probably not have been sent."
Image copyright PA Image caption The letter was sent to universities across the UK Opposition parties have suggested that Mr Heaton-Harris was seeking to compile a list of "Brexit heretics" and called for him to be stripped of his role as a whip.
Former Conservative chairman Lord Patten, Chancellor of Oxford University, said the letter should be chucked in the bin, describing it as an act of "offensive and idiotic Leninism".
Mr Johnson suggested this was something of an "over-exaggeration" given the independence of universities was protected under the law and the government had extended the statutory duty to secure free speech earlier this year so that it will apply to all providers of higher education.
Image copyright Conservative Party Image caption Chris Heaton-Harris is facing calls to explain why he wanted the information "There is 24 carat academic freedom in this country.
We have entrenched it in statute, only as recently as April.
"Academic staff are free to test and challenge received wisdom and free to put forward new ideas and controversial or unpopular opinions.
That is the law and we support it."
A number of Tory MPs have backed Mr Heaton-Harris, Philip Davies condemning what he said was the "false outrage" from academics and suggesting universities had been "rumbled".
He told the Daily Telegraph that universities were full of "left wing lecturers forcing their opinions on their students" and they should be "more balanced in their teaching" And tweeting a picture of a flyer for a stop-Brexit rally, Paul Scully said: "This is what a lecturer was handing out to my daughter who spends 9k per annum for him to be teaching engineering, not politics."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Richard Graham says driving instructors should be covered by same laws as school teachers over sex with young people Driving instructors should be banned from having sex with young people they are teaching, a Tory MP has said.
Richard Graham said the law should be changed to protect young drivers from "being groomed by a predatory instructor".
He said instructors should be "covered by the same rules as teachers".
Prime Minister Theresa May said she would ask a minister to look into the issue after it was raised by Mr Graham at prime minister's questions.
In 2001, the law was changed to make it illegal for teachers to engage in sexual activity with pupils at their school aged under 18.
Mr Graham referred to the case of a constituent "distressed" by the relationship between their 17-year-old daughter and a "middle-aged" instructor.
The MP said it was a consensual relationship and therefore not illegal, but he said he was "concerned" about instructors abusing their position.
"Driving instructors are by the nature of their work in a position of trust [and] should be covered by the same rules as teachers," he told MPs.
Mrs May recognised the "role that driving instructors play" and said she would ask the "appropriate department" to look into the case.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption David Davis tells MPs Parliament's vote on a Brexit deal may come after March 2019.
The Brexit Secretary, David Davis, has suggested that Parliament might not get a vote on a Brexit deal until after March 2019.
It's prompted criticism from some MPs, who are worried their votes will be meaningless because by that point, the UK will have already left the EU.
Also significant is Mr Davis' claim that the European Parliament might have to wait to have its say too.
According to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which the UK triggered seven months ago, the withdrawal agreement must be passed by a majority of members of the European Parliament.
Even if a deal was done at "the 11th hour" as Mr Davis suggested when giving evidence to the Commons Brexit committee, it would be too late for MEPs to debate it and vote it through.
So the upshot of a last-minute deal could be no deal at all.
The Brexit department later clarified that Mr Davis was talking about "hypothetical scenarios" and ministers are working to reach an agreement in "good time" before March 2019.
It's not entirely clear what "deal" Mr Davis was referring to.
The European Union has broken down the negotiations into two parts.
The first focuses on the issues associated with withdrawal, such as the rights of EU citizens, the Northern Irish border and the UK's financial obligations.
The second covers what our future relationship might look like, including areas such as trade, scientific research and consumer rights.
The British government says it's not possible to separate the two parts, because in many respects, they're intrinsically linked.
If the "deal" that Mr Davis was talking about this morning encompasses both, it must be ratified on or before 29 March 2019, which means an agreement would need to be reached in time for that.
The future relationship part could be ratified after the deadline, but only if part one is rubber-stamped before the deadline.
The EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, is hopeful of reaching a withdrawal agreement by autumn 2018 and the Brexit department said that was their aim as well.
Technically it is possible to extend the Article 50 period, currently fixed at two years, if there's unanimous agreement from the 27 remaining member states.
But that option would be a hard sell.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Getty Images This autumn, MPs are due to debate whether they will have to leave the Houses of Parliament while it undergoes essential repairs.
But could they be forced out of their iconic building by a potentially messy blockage?
Turn on a gas alarm as a precaution, open a substantial iron gate and head down into a basement.
The hum of machinery grows louder - and the smell grows stronger.
Impressive but distinctly old-fashioned cylinders and pumps appear.
An engineer accompanying me explains that these are "sewage ejectors", dating from 1888.
An enterprising Victorian technology museum, you might be assuming, with working exhibits?
But this is in fact the basement of the Palace of Westminster.
And these Victorian antiques are all that stand between Parliament and an almighty stink.
The engineer is Andrew Piper, design director for Parliament's Restoration and Renewal programme, which is planning a project lasting several years and will cost billions of pounds.
Image copyright CIBSE Heritage Group Collection Image caption The original steam engine, once used to power the sewage ejectors, is still in working order He explains that "everything from the toilets, the rainwater outlets - it all comes down to this point" - before being ejected out to the main London drain.
The ejectors were installed to stop London's sewage invading the buildings after heavy rainfall.
And there they still are, working away, almost 130 years later.
But, adds Mr Piper "we can't rely on these sorts of systems for much longer".
So what happens if they suddenly fail?
"If you can't use the toilets any more a building quickly becomes unusable.
The end result would be potentially shutting the building down."
The sewage system is just one of several growing hazards.
Mr Piper and his basement maintenance team struggle with constant fire dangers.
There are modern electrical cables crammed next to older asbestos-covered steam pipes.
And a system of vents that could carry smoke or flames swiftly through the building.
Image copyright UK Parliament Image caption Flooding in the basement of the Palace of Westminster in June 2017 The building that's meant to represent the British constitution is a kind of national monument to make do and mend, with lots of bits from different eras bolted on to each other and much left unwritten - like where all these cables and vents end up, and what they actually do.
The Palace of Westminster, one of the best known buildings in the world, is in a truly terrible state.
Some have known this for years.
A joint committee, including MPs and peers, published a report last year which warned that the palace "faces an impending crisis which we cannot responsibly ignore".
"There is a substantial and growing risk of either a single, catastrophic event, such as a major fire, or a succession of incremental failures in essential systems."
Home from home So how has this happened?
And what does the state of Parliament say about the state of our politics?
Firstly, there's the belief that the building represents political stability.
Maintenance has long been limited by MPs' insistence that nothing must stop them from sitting there.
So any repairs have been crammed into recess times.
And there's another layer to this psychological attachment, says Dr Caroline Shenton, historian and former parliamentary archivist.
The palace, with its bars and restaurants, gym and post offices, becomes a kind of home from home for MPs and peers, giving a "daily sense of continuity and security".
Add to that anxiety - in this increasingly angry, anti-politics era - about what public opinion and headline writers will say as the multi-billion cost of renewal emerges.
Sheffield University's Prof Matthew Flinders, chair of the Political Studies Association of the United Kingdom, who has closely followed the Restoration and Renewal programme, says this failure to take a decision is a classic example of what political scientists call "elite blockage".
The palace, he says, "casts a spell" on many who use it.
It represents a kind of politics with "low expectations of public engagement" which "locks in by its design not only a two-party system but also a very masculine, adversarial kind of politics".
Those who benefit leave it to others to take tough unpopular decisions in the future.
Meanwhile "the building can't take it any more - we've reached a crunch point."
Image copyright uk parliament Image caption The Palace of Westminster's cast iron roofs are 160 years old He would like the current problems to be seen as an opportunity - to open up the building and change the way we do politics.
Public access could be greatly improved, especially for disabled people who currently struggle to enter.
Others say a renovated palace would prove a huge asset as Brexit Britain tries to reinforce its international reputation.
MPs are due to debate the latest restoration and renewal plan at some point this autumn.
But those who have watched years of delay and disagreement don't expect swift action.
So will it take a catastrophe - like the 1834 fire which destroyed the palace's predecessor - to force a change?
"It's starting to look like that," says Dr Shenton.
It might be that "the whole place just grinds to a halt".
"In terms of British pride," warns Prof Flinders, "if we wait for a catastrophe to close down Parliament, it's going to be an absolute disaster."
And as for the failure of those sewage ejectors - that would create an "elite blockage" like no other.
Chris Bowlby presents Parliament - A Building Catastrophe?
on BBC Radio 4 on Monday 23 October 2017 at 20:30 BST.
You will be able to listen via the Radio 4 programme website or download the programme podcast.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption David Davis updates Parliament on Brexit talks So the focus of the Brexit talks has shifted slightly as a result of the EU leaders' summit in Brussels.
There is still plenty of tough bargaining ahead in the next few weeks, especially on the question of money.
But there is also going to be more and more talk about preparing for a transition period - for what happens immediately after the UK leaves the EU in March 2019.
Plenty of people see transition as a way to buy a little more time to sort things out - to finalise negotiations on a future trade deal.
But the UK government prefers to calls the transition phase a "period of implementation".
It is not entirely clear what would be implemented.
But the Brexit Secretary David Davis warned this week that without a final deal on a future partnership with the EU - at least in principle - the government would not want to trigger any kind of transition at all.
Does it mean the two sides view the prospects for transition very differently?
The EU27 - the other member states without the UK - have now agreed to start working on new guidelines for their negotiators.
And both the EU and Theresa May (in her Florence speech) have said that any transition/implementation period would take place under "the existing structure of EU rules and regulations".
There will be plenty of technical challenges: what happens, for example, to the UK's role in EU trade agreements with third countries?
Those third countries might have their own opinions about that.
But there is also the question of what happens during a transition period itself?
It could mean roughly two more years to continue negotiations on the details of a future partnership with the EU on trade, security and a host of other issues.
The Confederation of British Industry, for example, argues that in order to avoid a "cliff-edge" Brexit, negotiations on a trading agreement should continue during a transition.
But UK government policy is rather different.
It still argues that a deal on our "final relationship" with the rest of the EU can be completed before the UK leaves the EU at the end of March 2019.
Most observers are convinced that, for practical reasons, that will not be possible - there is simply too much to do.
Upping the ante But Mr Davis insisted in the House of Commons this week that if the broad outlines of a permanent deal are not in place when the UK leaves, a transition period will not be triggered.
Asked by Conservative MP Rishi Sunak for reassurance that "what is meant to be a transitory state of affairs does not become a permanent bridge to nowhere", Mr Davis said: "We will try to get the nature of the implementation phase agreed as soon as possible, so that businesses can take that into account."
He added: "But he's right that such a transition phase would only be triggered once we've completed the deal itself, we cannot carry on negotiating through that - our negotiating position during the transition phase would not be very strong."
In other words, Mr Davis is saying - in stronger language than the government appears to have used before - that if there is no final deal by March 2019, at least in principle, then the UK would not want to trigger a transition period.
The words "at least in principle" contain a fair amount of wiggle room.
And the EU itself would be delighted if the outlines of a future agreement could be agreed so quickly.
It says only that a withdrawal agreement (as opposed to a future trade agreement) has to be finalised in order for there to be a transition.
And Article 50 simply says the withdrawal agreement must "take account of the framework for a future relationship".
But Mr Davis appears to be upping the ante.
"No final deal" equals "no transition" equals "hard Brexit".
As a negotiating tactic, it may be designed to keep the pressure on.
But it may not be what many business leaders want to hear.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Press association So it's come down to money.
Who would have thought it?
After five rounds of negotiations on Brexit, the EU remains insistent: there will be no discussions with the UK on a transition period, or on future relations, until financial commitments have been clarified.
So what exactly is it about the money that is proving so difficult to resolve?
It comes down to the detail (or lack of it) contained in Theresa May's carefully crafted speech in Florence.
Overall, the speech was greeted across the EU with a considerable sense of relief.
It suggested that progress was at least possible at a time when some countries were beginning to fear the worst.
The prime minister opened the door for the UK to contribute roughly 20bn (17.9bn) to the EU budget in 2019 and 2020, so that no-one else would be out of pocket.
And - crucially - she went on to say that "the UK will honour commitments we have made during the period of our membership".
But EU negotiators - under clear instructions from the member states - want to know exactly what that means in practice.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The prime minister said the UK would "honour commitments" Looming large in the background is something called the Reste Liquider (RAL) - EU money that has already been committed to projects in the long-term budget but has not yet been spent.
The RAL is currently running at an eye-watering 239bn, which could mean a UK share of more than 30bn.
Much of it is due to be spent on big infrastructure or development projects that have been delayed.
There are also pensions and contingent liabilities, such as loans to other countries, to consider.
The EU isn't asking for a figure to be agreed - but for a guarantee within the negotiating process, probably in writing, that "honouring commitments" means "all commitments."
'Time pressure' The UK position, on the other hand, is that the prime minister made a substantial gesture in her Florence speech, and it is in no position to move further unless it gets something in return.
"They are using time pressure to get more money out of us," the Brexit Secretary David Davis told the House of Commons this week.
"Bluntly, that is what's going on."
It sounds like deadlock, but that's not necessarily the case.
Three more rounds of negotiation have been suggested between this week's summit and another one in December.
The hope is that a way will be found to move forward, even if it takes a moment of crisis to get there.
"The EU27 don't believe the UK is too far off 'sufficient progress'," says Mujtaba Rahman, the managing director for Europe at the political consultancy Eurasia Group.
"They want Mrs May to be able to leave Brussels with a win that will enable her to strike a deal by December."
That's why both sides have said they want to accelerate the negotiating process, and prepare for discussions about the future.
If the language of the current draft of the summit's conclusions doesn't change much, the EU27 will agree to begin internal discussions about a transition period and the nature of a future relationship.
They won't talk directly to the UK about these issues until December at the earliest.
And only then if "sufficient progress" has been made on all the "divorce" arrangements, including money.
It doesn't sound like much.
But it's a start, and it is seen in Brussels as a carrot for the UK negotiating team.
So what might the EU be likely to decide in internal discussions over the coming weeks?
For EU officials involved in the negotiating process one thing about transition is clear: the more you keep things the same, the easier it will be to agree.
That's why the internal deliberations among the 27 on transition could be concluded very quickly.
They will probably offer to prolong all existing EU rules and regulations (the body of law known as 'the acquis') - or, to put it another way - to extend the status quo.
That means that after Brexit - for "about two years" (ie for the length of a transition period) - the UK would be outside the EU's political institutions, but inside its economic arrangements.
It also means the UK would have to accept EU budget payments, EU regulations and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice.
To put it in the formal language of the European Council's Article 50 negotiating guidelines: "Should a time-limited prolongation of Union acquis be considered, this would require existing Union regulatory, budgetary, supervisory, judiciary and enforcement instruments and structures to apply."
Difficult to stomach The details of what that means are difficult for some Brexit supporters in the UK to stomach.
But the prime minister, in her Florence speech, has already accepted that the framework for any transition (she prefers to call it an implementation period) would be "the existing structure of EU rules and regulations".
Problems would arise, however, if the UK tried to argue for exemptions or exceptions.
Take, for example, one idea that has been floated (forgive the pun): leaving the Common Fisheries Policy at the same time as the UK leaves the EU in March 2019.
That doesn't really tally with the kind of transition that EU officials have in mind.
Once you start unpicking the offer, all sorts of complications begin to arise.
So it's not quite take it or leave it.
But it's not far off.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Unpicking the agreement, such as leaving the Common Fisheries Policy, could lead to further complications There are other potential problems with a transition period that will need to be resolved.
What, for example, does it mean for trade agreements with third countries, when it makes a difference whether products (or parts of products) are manufactured in the single market or not?
But agreeing upon the terms of a transition will be much easier for the EU27 than agreeing on the outline of a final deal - on everything from trade to security.
The 27 member states are a little more nervous about those discussions because differences of opinion are bound to emerge between them.
Many countries have obviously been thinking hard about this already.
One internal German government paper has been reported here.
Finding a compromise But there is another issue that overshadows debate about Brexit in capitals across the EU - what exactly is it that the UK wants?
Every change of emphasis in London adds to the confusion.
As Finland's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Samuli Virtanen, put it this week: "It seems that at the moment the EU 27 is more unanimous than the UK 1.
And that is one of the main problems here."
But it all rests on finding a compromise on money.
And that really has to happen before the end of this year.
Otherwise time is going to start running out.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
Image copyright Reuters Image caption UK Prime Minister Theresa May said that "concrete progress" was being made in talks so far European Union leaders are meeting in Brussels and at the top of their agenda is a review of the Brexit negotiations.
They are demanding better clarifications from the UK over its financial commitments, and the impasse has led to a lot of talk of a "no deal" Brexit.
We ask journalists covering the summit how their countries view the possibility of no formal agreement between the UK and the EU.
Germany: Daniel Brssler, Sddeutsche Zeitung Brussels correspondent The German thinking now is that a "no deal" scenario is not what you want - of course it would have an impact on British-German trade.
But my impression is that the German government thinks that a bad deal, from the European perspective, would be even worse.
They are saying we need a fair deal.
But if there is no deal we will survive it, it will be tough but the EU will survive it - and Germany has a lot of trade with the rest of Europe.
So far the talks are not seen in Germany as having broken down - people think there is still time to make a deal, that enough progress might be made in December.
But people see that there is a risk.
Politicians see responsibility for this on the British side - and Brexit has already estranged us to a certain degree.
There is a feeling of them and us, you can see a pretty strict mood in Berlin.
People say we need a fair deal, but there is no mood to have a deal just to please the British.
Denmark: Lotte Mejlhede, TV2 News correspondent I don't think any country in Europe wants a "no deal" result.
Business people and politicians in Denmark are very interested in having a good future trade deal with the UK.
Denmark has quite a lot of trade with the UK, and we have an issue with the fishing quotas.
Some Eurosceptic politicians want to join the UK outside the EU, but in general the attitude is that we're better off staying in, and that's also because of our size - our population is 5.5 million, and it's quite hard to do big trade deals alone.
When the UK leaves, the axis of the EU will be France and Germany.
Now I think everybody is hoping for a deal.
But we know businesses are also preparing for the worst-case scenario.
Poland: Maciej Sokolowski, TVN24 News correspondent People in Poland were just waiting for the announcement on Wednesday by the British Prime Minister [Theresa May] that everyone living in the UK can stay there with the same rights as today.
That's the most important thing for Poles living in the UK, the guarantee that they can stay.
The change of tone was really important.
There were rumours like: "Do we have to go back to Poland?"
and "Do we have to leave our jobs now?"
Brexit isn't the main topic now in Poland.
Of course there's about a million Polish people in the UK, but Poles are not talking much about the money, or the Ireland issue.
On freedom of movement - the UK isn't in the Schengen area, so it shouldn't be much worse after Brexit.
But no-one knows now what no deal really means.
We still see the UK as our biggest friend in the EU, with Hungary.
So after Brexit it will be a political problem for Poland, being without our main friend in the EU.
Spain: Adolfo Lorente, El Correo correspondent Ordinary people don't understand what has happened with the UK.
The situation is very complicated.
We read that the UK is very angry with the EU, that it doesn't want to pay the bill.
People don't understand the economic impact, but it's very important for Spain - we export fruit, wine.
Many Spanish people go to Britain to learn English or work.
Now there is a lot of doubt - people ask "What is happening with Brexit?"
and "What about exports and passports?"
It's like the situation with Catalonia - Spanish people feel that they don't want to be with us, they want to be separate.
But we think that being together, united, is better.
Gibraltar is also a big issue for us.
Patriotism in Spain is very high now.
Theresa May's support for Spain over Catalonia in exchange for [Spanish PM] Mariano Rajoy's support over Brexit is a real possibility.
Some diplomats here in Brussels smile and say it's possible.
Image caption The Islington pub where Bolsheviks and Mensheviks argued fiercely during the 1903 party congress In August 1903, a small band of dedicated but argumentative political activists held a fractious conference in London.
It consisted of Vladimir Lenin, Leon Trotsky and about 50 other committed agitators who wanted to overthrow the autocratic rule of the Russian Tsar.
Their quarrels might have seemed minor at the time, but they have rippled out across history.
This was when the Russian revolutionary movement divided into the two rival factions of Bolsheviks and Mensheviks.
And a key vote happened in a pub in Islington.
The Bolsheviks, described as the 'hards' and led by Lenin, wanted a tightly centralised and disciplined political party; the Mensheviks or 'softs' favoured a looser, broader-based alliance with sympathetic forces.
Over the following years, as issues and affiliations shifted, their differences fluctuated but were to become deeper.
Fourteen years later, in the second (October) revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks took power, sidelining and defeating the Mensheviks, and went on to form the Soviet Union.
At the 1903 congress in London, where the split emerged, Lenin's faction narrowly lost the vote on the nature of party membership.
But then seven anti-Lenin delegates walked out over other disagreements, and with his opponents depleted, his side then won a crucial vote on the editorial board for the party's journal.
Pub venues This outcome enabled Lenin to call his group the Bolsheviks, meaning 'majority' in Russian, while his rivals became the Mensheviks or 'minority'.
The bitter dispute prompted uproar in the meeting.
According to Richard Mullin, a researcher into early Russian Marxism, Lenin's notes indicate that the tumultuous session took place in the Three Johns pub in Islington.
Image caption The Whitechapel building where Lenin, Stalin, Trotsky and others arrived for the 1907 congress "The 1903 London congress is regarded as decisive in the development of Bolshevism - it's hugely significant", says Neil Faulkner, author of A People's History of the Russian Revolution.
But of course its significance is seen differently according to different political viewpoints.
"Most people on the revolutionary left would say this is the decisive break between revolution and reform," explains Dr Faulkner.
"A lot of liberal commentators would see it as the tiny seed from which ultimately grows the gulags and the labour camps of the 1930s."
To avoid being monitored during their conference, the Russians moved from venue to venue over a fortnight, often using meeting rooms in pubs recommended by friendly British trade unionists.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Leon Trotsky met Lenin for the first time in London The first session in London occurred in a club in Charlotte Street in central London.
Otherwise most of these locations are unknown today.
The 1903 congress had actually started in Brussels, but after harassment from the Belgian police it moved to London.
The British authorities showed more acceptance of exiled Russian revolutionary activities than did many other European countries.
This comparative tolerance meant that some other key events in the history of the Russian revolutionary movement also happened in Britain.
The 1907 party congress moved to London after being banned in Denmark, Sweden and Norway.
This was a much bigger affair of more than 300 delegates, following an outbreak of major social unrest against the Tsar in Russia in 1905.
The congress took place in the Brotherhood Church in Hackney, which has since been knocked down and replaced by a housing development.
Those present included almost all the future leaders of the Bolshevik revolution, including Lenin, Trotsky, Stalin (a minor figure at the time), Zinoviev, Kamenev and Litvinov, as well as the prominent Russian writer Maxim Gorky.
This was the last full congress of the party until after the revolution.
Image caption Lenin briefly lived in Tavistock Place in Bloomsbury, central London in 1908 The participants first registered for the conference at a building in Fulbourne Street, Whitechapel, which still stands today.
At the time it was a Jewish socialist club.
Stalin and Maxim Litvinov (who later became Soviet foreign minister) stayed in a doss house nearby in Fieldgate Street, which has since been converted into a somewhat more salubrious block of flats.
The conference saw further disputes between Bolsheviks and Mensheviks.
One issue for discussion was whether to approve the use of bank robberies to help fund revolutionary activities.
Most delegates could only afford the trip back to Russia when the impoverished party secured a loan from an eccentric soap manufacturing London businessman who was inspired by watching conference proceedings.
A few years earlier Lenin had spent 12 months in London, in 1902-3.
He mainly divided his time between researching and writing at the British Museum reading room, and editing a revolutionary journal, Iskra ("The Spark").
'Lenin room' In the reading room he studied works on economics and on the Russian peasantry.
Lenin was able to obtain books which would have been confiscated in Russia, and was rather impressed by the British state's commitment to the library, telling a friend: "The British bourgeoisie do not spare any money as far as this institution is concerned, and that is as it should be."
On his various visits to London, Lenin generally stayed around the Bloomsbury area, so that he had easy access to the museum.
In 1902 Iskra was produced in London and smuggled across Europe into Russia.
Lenin was provided with an office and printing facilities by a supportive left-wing publishing company.
Image caption The 'Lenin room' in the Marx Memorial Library This building is now the Marx Memorial Library in Clerkenwell.
They have preserved what they call 'the Lenin room' with busts of him, old editions of the journal, and copies of Lenin's voluminous collected works.
A map on the wall outside shows the smuggling routes used.
For Lenin, the journal was crucial both for building up a network of revolutionary activists and also for spreading the political analysis he favoured.
It was in London, in October 1902, that Lenin and Trotsky met for the first time.
The pair discussed the political circumstances of Russia, but Lenin also showed Trotsky the sights of London.
When they went past the Houses of Parliament, Lenin said to his companion "that is their famous Westminster".
Trotsky later wrote it was obvious that by "their", Lenin didn't mean it was the British parliament, he meant it was the ruling class's parliament.
Yet it was that parliament, and the system it represented, which gave Lenin, Trotsky and their comrades the political freedom to pursue their goals.
Martin Rosenbaum is the presenter of The British Road to Bolshevism on BBC Radio 4 at 20:00 on Monday, 16 October 2017.
You can follow Martin Rosenbaum on Twitter as @rosenbaum6
Image copyright Houses of Parliament The Palace of Westminster's famous towers, gilt and gargoyles exude grandeur.
But descending into the basement which runs underneath the Houses of Parliament inspires a different kind of awe - alarm and anxiety.
To go on a tour of the cavernous corridors below the building is to enter a seemingly never-ending network of claustrophobic passageways lined with huge tangles of protruding wires and pipes, taped up here and there, leaking, hot to the touch.
Faults go unmended because the pipes are so entwined they cannot be safely dismantled, and boiling steam rushes through ancient plumbing all day and night because engineers are afraid if they switched it off they would not be able to get it back on again.
The overall impression is of a temporary fix ready to give way to flood or fire at any moment.
The team charged with keeping the whole thing ticking over says the basement gives the clearest image of how precarious the situation is.
But increasingly the sticking plasters fall off and the failing fabric of the building gives way, making it difficult for the people who work there to do their jobs.
What's it like inside Parliament?
One assistant to a Conservative MP told the BBC that all the staff in her office on the lower-ground floor of the Palace had to relocate twice while asbestos was removed, and again after a pipe burst in the corridor.
On one occasion, she was working in her office when a light fitting fell from the ceiling on to her desk.
Image copyright Anonymous Image caption Staff have had to move offices repeatedly due to asbestos "They've taken the approach of just putting plasters on problems rather than overhauling it," she says, "so overall it's just a bit dodgy."
"The walkway to the car park is usually so flooded underneath that the floor panels bounce around and your shoes get soaked."
A Labour researcher recalled an occasion a few years ago when the toilets above Exeter MP Ben Bradshaw's office "leaked through and dripped onto papers, leaving horrid smells".
The sight of mice running around is so commonplace that several parliamentary workers only mentioned it in passing, saying, "oh yeah, we've got loads" or "the place is riddled with them".
A parliamentary spokesman said: "Providing a physical working environment that is as safe as we can possibly make it is an absolute priority."
Image copyright Houses of Parliament Image caption Overloaded and unsafe wiring carries the constant risk of fire The Labour MP Meg Hillier has investigated options for the restoration of Parliament as chair of the Public Accounts Committee, but also has personal experience of doing battle with the dilapidated surroundings.
She told the BBC of the "hole in the carpet which you have to remember where it is otherwise your foot goes through it".
She added: "The plugs in my office buzz and spark - I take extra care to switch them all off before I leave because I'm terrified of a fire starting in there."
The head of engineering on the estate, Andy Piper, says that if a fire were to start everyone could be evacuated, but at present he is not confident the building could be saved as it would not be safe for firefighters to enter.
Warnings from history It's estimated that 60 small fires have started on the estate over the past 10 years, and 24 fire inspectors patrol the grounds on rotation.
Caroline Shenton, author of several books on the history of the building, points out that concerns raised by MPs and architects in the 1830s about the condition of the accommodation went unanswered.
Image copyright Hulton Archive/Getty Images Image caption Historians see parallels with the warnings that preceded the 1834 fire In 1834, a massive fire destroyed both Houses of Parliament and other buildings on the site.
"I do see a parallel because there had been years of attempts to change the accommodation, and the squabbles were exactly the same - over symbolism and expense," she says.
Alexandra Meakin, a former clerk in Parliament and research associate at the University of Sheffield, summarises the situation as "desperate".
She points out that most of the electricity and plumbing was originally put in after World War II and went out of date in the 1960s and 70s.
Why has nothing happened?
It's now been over a year since a specially convened committee recommended a complete relocation of all staff from the Palace of Westminster to allow major restoration works to take place.
Image copyright Houses of Parliament Image caption Buckets catch leaks in the peers' Not Content lobby "Major" does not do justice to the scale of the programme - the head engineer at Parliament told the BBC there wasn't any comparable project in the UK.
"People liken it to restoring a cathedral or a stately home, but that doesn't come close - and those places would not have hundreds of people working there, as well as being the seat of government."
Even if the government were to give the green light tomorrow, it would take several years just to move people out and get reconstruction started.
So why wait?
There are some who believe it's essential for MPs to remain in place at all costs, and would prefer repairs to take place around them.
As Conservative Sir Edward Leigh put it earlier this year: "This is not an office block.
If it were I would agree we should move out, but it is not.
"It is the centre of the nation and the nation should keep its debating chamber in this building."
Image copyright PA Image caption Can the government find time to restore Parliament while it debates Brexit?
Others are of the view that there are better uses for 3.6bn - especially with the social housing shortage in the spotlight.
Another Conservative MP, Shailesh Vara, summarised it thus: "When we are writing to our constituents and saying that they cannot have an additional few pounds for whatever they are seeking money for, do we really want to go to the public and say that, nevertheless, we want to spend billions of pounds on our place of work?"
Meg Hillier doesn't buy this argument, reasoning: "The public aren't going to have much confidence in us if we can't keep our own house from falling down."
What next?
From a procedural perspective, a motion approving the restoration has to be brought forward and passed in government time.
There has been speculation ministers are shying away from bringing it forward as they face the not-insignificant task of legislating for Brexit.
Former Parliamentary clerk Alexandra Meakin says: "Given the cost of the programme, and the fear of media hostility - particularly in the wake of the Big Ben furore - there is very little incentive for the government to hold the debate."
A spokesman for the leader of the Commons, Andrea Leadsom denied this, telling the BBC: "Discussions are ongoing within Parliament and efforts to arrive at a consensus continue."
As Parliament resumes after recess, this could be the session in which MPs finally take action.
But in the meantime, as one member of House services put it: "We are prisoners of the building's historic and iconic significance."
Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption UK Brexit Secretary David Davis and Chief EU Negotiator Michel Barnier say they both want a deal There's a lot of discussion at the moment about a 'no deal' Brexit.
What does that actually mean?
It seems to mean slightly different things to different people.
But in the current context it basically means that there would be no formal agreement reached during the negotiations between the UK and the EU, which are taking place under the terms of Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty.
These are the negotiations that are led by David Davis for the UK and Michel Barnier for the EU - the fifth round of talks is being held in Brussels this week.
Even if there is no deal under Article 50, there would still have to be some kind of formal relationship between the UK and the EU in the long term - for trade, security and every other aspect of bilateral ties.
But if the Article 50 process fails there is very little time to work on alternative strategies before Brexit in March 2019.
When would we know if there was going to be a 'no deal' Brexit?
This is an important question because the timing is critical.
One scenario, being pushed by some Eurosceptic Conservative MPs, is that if the current negotiations make no progress - and the EU refuses to move on to talk about a future trade deal - the UK should announce that it will pursue a 'no deal' Brexit instead.
Leave supporters believe that would free the UK from all EU structures in one fell swoop.
If such a decision were to be made in, say, March 2018 there would still be a year before the UK is due to leave the EU.
That's very little time to prepare for such a massive change, but it would be better than nothing.
A more worrying scenario for many business leaders, and millions of citizens who are caught up in the Brexit process, is that something could go wrong at the very last minute - perhaps a deal that has been tentatively agreed but is subsequently rejected by one side or the other.
Then the UK could crash out of the EU with neither side fully prepared for the consequences.
This is the 'cliff edge' that gives many people in business and politics sleepless nights - a chaotic Brexit that would benefit no one.
Are preparations for 'no deal' already taking place?
Yes they are - on both sides of the Channel.
The UK government has been careful to say that it is not seeking a 'no deal' outcome, but that it has to be prepared for all eventualities.
The Prime Minister has tried to move away from an emphasis on her initial message that "no deal is better than a bad deal" - but when pushed she continues to defend that stance.
So there is a combination here of prudent planning behind the scenes, and public statements which aim to have an impact on the negotiations - trying to hurry things up by warning of possible alternatives.
For the EU, the President of the European Council Donald Tusk has been very clear, arguing that no deal would be the worst deal of all.
"A no-deal scenario would be bad for everyone," he said earlier this year, "but above all for the UK."
Contingency planning is also happening elsewhere in the EU, though - within both governments and the business community.
The Federation of German Industries (BDI) said last week that it was setting up a task force of major companies to make provisions for the "serious case of a very hard exit."
Anything else, it said, would be nave.
What would 'no deal' mean in practice?
If the two-year Article 50 process came to an end with no agreement, the UK would leave the EU on 29 March 2019 with no deal in place.
Again, much would then depend on how long both sides have had to prepare for this.
The consequences of 'no deal' would affect almost every aspect of life, and it is impossible to say exactly how events would unfold.
But here are a few examples: Money: With no agreement in place, according to a House of Lords report there would be no legal obligation for the UK to make any payment as part of a financial settlement.
That would leave a huge hole in the EU budget.
It would save the UK money in this instance, but it would antagonise the rest of the EU and further sour relations.
Legal action, possibly via the International Court of Justice in The Hague, could not be ruled out.
Citizens: Without a deal or other residency rights, the entitlement of EU nationals to reside in the UK, or of UK nationals to reside elsewhere in the EU, could technically disappear overnight.
In theory, they could become third country nationals, subject to domestic immigration rules.
Given the fact that this would affect more than three million EU citizens in the UK, and nearly a million UK citizens in the EU, it could well be that individual EU countries would try to strike deals with the UK to guarantee citizens' rights.
Common sense should prevail, but that cannot be guaranteed.
Trade: With no new trade agreement with the EU, the rules of the World Trade Organisation would apply.
Tariffs would be imposed on goods that the UK sends to the EU, and on goods the EU sends to the UK.
It would not be the frictionless trade - certainly to begin with - that the government hopes to promote.
Tariffs on many industrial products would be 2-3%, but on cars they would be 10% and on many agricultural products between 20% and 40%.
The trade in services would also suffer if nothing was agreed in advance.
Under a pure 'no deal' scenario, businesses would lose their passporting rights, which allow them to sell their services across the EU without having to obtain licences in each individual country.
The financial services industry would be particularly vulnerable, and it accounts for a significant slice of the UK economy.
Again it is worth emphasising that all these restrictions would apply to EU businesses wanting to trade in the UK as well.
'No deal' is not a one-way street.
Without any deal, and with no transition period negotiated, the UK would be free to sign trade agreements around the world as soon as it could finalise them.
How might it try to go about this?
There are a few pointers here.
Customs: A government White Paper on customs, published yesterday, sets out options for a 'no deal' scenario in more detail.
A customs bill will make provision for the UK to establish a stand-alone customs regime from day one, applying the same duties to every country with which it has no special deal.
Image copyright Getty Images Traders would need to present goods to HM Revenue and Customs "inland as much as possible" to avoid congestion at ports, and consignments would need to be pre-notified to customs authorities, to try to ensure that trade continues to flow as seamlessly as possible.
The White Paper promises to minimise disruption for business and travellers - but to give some idea of the scale of the challenge, HMRC estimates that about 130,000 businesses that export to the EU would be dealing with customs for the first time.
'No deal' is not the government's preferred option; and the detail in the customs paper hints at how disruptive it could be.
The border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland would, in particular, be a huge concern, with serious ramifications for the Northern Ireland peace process.
Regulations: With no deal of any kind in place, the UK would suddenly cease to be a member of dozens of regulatory agencies that govern many aspects of daily life.
In time, it would need to replace all of them with agencies of its own.
Thousands of new employees would need to be recruited and trained - a process which should have already started if there were to be any chance of it being completed before Brexit.
EU bodies that regulate the aviation industry and the pharmaceutical industry are often cited as prime examples.
One of the main concerns associated with a 'cliff edge' Brexit is that there would be no time to put new measures in place, even if plenty of contingency planning had been done.
In theory - under a worst case scenario - that could mean that planes would be grounded temporarily, and drugs could not be imported.
But again, the hope would be that common sense would prevail, and that some kind of interim arrangements would be made to keep things moving.
It would be in the interests of neither the UK nor the EU for chaos to ensue.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
The claim: Nicola Sturgeon told her party conference that the Scottish government's commitment to early years education and childcare was "unmatched anywhere else in the UK" as she fleshed out plans to expand childcare provision.
Reality Check verdict: Overall, Scotland's planned childcare provision would be the most generous in the UK, as it plans to offer 1,140 hours a year, regardless of whether parents are in work.
However, a pilot scheme under way in Wales is better for working parents as it offers 1,440 hours a year.
When Nicola Sturgeon took to the stage at the SNP conference, she said she was committed to giving children in Scotland "the best possible start in life".
She confirmed that the Scottish government would increase its offer of free childcare from 16 hours a week to 30 hours for three- and four-year-olds, as well as vulnerable two-year-olds, by 2020.
And she pledged to double investment in early years education and childcare, from 420m to 840m a year, by the end of the current parliament.
"This is a commitment unmatched anywhere else in the UK," she said.
"And it's the best investment we can make in Scotland's future."
The first minister's office confirmed that what she meant was that the universality of care offered to children north of the border would be better than that provided in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Reality Check has looked into the claims.
Image copyright Getty Images Parents of three- and four-year-olds and vulnerable two-year-olds in Scotland are currently offered 600 hours of free childcare a year.
It works out at roughly 16 hours a week over 38 weeks of the year but families can choose to spread the hours over a longer period.
The Scottish government wants to increase annual childcare provision to 1,140 hours by 2020.
Funded childcare is currently offered to all families in Scotland - regardless of the employment status of their parents.
That is where Nicola Sturgeon's plans differ from those in practice across the rest of the UK.
England All families in England are currently offered 570 free hours a year.
However, where both parents (or one in single-parent families) work more than 16 hours a week, they are entitled to 1,140 hours a year.
Wales In Wales, a pilot scheme is under way where working families in seven authorities are offered 1,440 hours of childcare a year.
That works out at 30 hours a week over 48 weeks.
As in England, it is available only to families where both parents (or one in a single-parent family) work more than 16 hours a week.
Every child in Wales is eligible for 10 hours of early years education a week, from the term after their third birthday.
That is incorporated into the 30 free hours in the pilot areas.
Northern Ireland Families in Northern Ireland can access between 12.5 and 22.5 hours of funded pre-school education a week over 38 weeks for all three- and four-year-olds.
One of the key actions of the NI executive's draft programme for government was to "extend responsive, high-quality provision in early childhood education and care" for families with young children.
However, Northern Ireland has been without an executive for 10 months, following a row between the DUP and Sinn Fein.
The parties are in discussions to restore the government.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
After a pause for the Labour and Conservative party conferences the next round of opinion polls is hotly anticipated.
They will be closely scrutinised in an attempt to gauge whether the problems that beset Theresa May's speech have any impact on how the public perceives her.
And whether any of the parties have been able to attract new supporters with their conference policy announcements.
A first post-conference poll from YouGov suggests little has changed in terms of voting intention but May's personal ratings might have taken a hit.
But there are several more to come over the next few days which should give us a clearer picture.
Throughout the summer, the Westminster voting intention polls were remarkably stable.
Labour did not quite retain the level of support they had immediately after the general election but on average they held on to a narrow lead over the Conservatives.
There was no perceptible movement for the smaller parties either.
On leader satisfaction, Theresa May's rating improved a little.
She still has a negative rating, meaning more voters disapprove of her or think she's doing a bad job than the opposite, but it has become a bit less negative.
Opinium, Ipsos MORI and BMG all show a small improvement.
And on the question of who would make the best prime minister, Mrs May has restored her lead over Jeremy Corbyn.
Polls from YouGov, Opinium and Ipsos Mori all put the Labour leader behind by a gap of about 7-10% - although this lead has shrunk in YouGov's post-conference poll.
Brexit split Despite some over-excited headlines, there's no clear evidence of a major shift in opinion about Brexit - at least in terms of whether people think the 2016 vote to leave was right or wrong, or how they'd vote in the event of another referendum.
Over a period of many months there may have been a very slight shift in favour of remain.
But the overall picture is that the country is still pretty much split down the middle.
Where there has been movement is in the public's perception of how the government is handling Brexit negotiations.
After Theresa May's Lancaster House speech in January, YouGov and ORB reported a marked increase in the number of people who said the government was doing well.
By the time the general election was called a majority of respondents approved of the government's performance on this issue.
Since the election, that trend has undergone a sharp reverse.
In their latest poll, YouGov found that 61% of respondents thought the government was doing badly compared to only 21% who thought it was doing well.
With "don't knows" removed, ORB reported 36% of people approving and 64% disapproving.
As Professor John Curtice has pointed out, May's Florence speech has not had the same effect as her earlier one.
Image copyright Julie Bartlett Image caption Heart failure left Julie exhausted and grey-skinned - a pump has brought the colour back to her cheeks and given her a good quality of life At home, Julie Bartlett has her bags packed and people on standby to drive her to hospital, just in case she receives a phone call saying doctors have a heart that is a match for her.
If the call comes, she'll have a couple of hours to get to Harefield Hospital in west London - she can even rely on a police escort if she gets stuck in traffic.
"That call could be this afternoon.
It could be never," she says, but she's optimistic that government plans for a new organ donation system of presumed consent in England might boost her chances significantly.
While the policy content of Theresa May's conference speech on Wednesday might have been overlooked, one of the prime minister's announcements could potentially save many lives - about three people a day in the UK die because of a lack of organ donors.
The Conservatives are proposing a consultation on changing the organ donation system in England from opt-in to opt-out, meaning people's organs could be used in transplants when they died unless they expressly said otherwise.
Currently, anyone who wants to donate their organs after death has to "opt in" through the donor card scheme.
There are currently 6,500 people waiting for an organ donation and it is hoped the new system would see more organs becoming available.
What do people waiting for an organ, and recent recipients of life-saving transplants, think of the proposed changes?
Life in limbo Last Christmas, former midwife Julie Bartlett was fitted with an LVAD - a mechanical pump for the heart known as a "bridge to transplant" - but what she really needs is a new heart.
"I could kiss Theresa May - although she's got that bad cold," she said.
"It was something that I have been waiting for, for a long a time - the sooner they do it, the better."
In 2009, Julie was diagnosed with heart failure and never expected to see her first grandchild or go to her daughter's wedding.
After it became end-stage heart failure and she was in a hospice, the option of the LVAD was presented to her.
"My quality of life is good now, but I have good days and bad days," she says.
The LVAD means Julie is permanently attached to two lines, has to recharge batteries overnight and can shower only weekly because of the wound.
"There are limits, but I'm very blessed to have one and it's better than being bedbound in a hospice," she says.
However, a new heart would transform her life.
It would even free her to travel abroad, as while on the waiting list she must stay in the UK.
Freedom While she waits for that heart, Julie lives in limbo.
She believes families should have the final decision over donation, as they do under the Welsh "soft opt-out" system - where if the individual's family objects, their organs are not removed.
"Families need to share what their wishes are, so they are less likely to go against the person's wishes.
It's a gift," she said.
Image caption Matthew's new kidneys allow him to "do what normal boys do" The Victoria Derbyshire programme spoke to 12-year old Matthew Pietrzyk, who spent eight years on dialysis after he was born with failing kidneys which had to be removed.
He and his mum Nicola told the programme that the transplant has not only "given him his life back" but had also transformed those of his brothers and parents.
The family can now go on holiday and make plans without the fear of emergency hospital visits.
Nicola said she can finally "be a mum" instead of a nurse.
Matthew believes that the new opt-out scheme will "save lives".
But another patient in need of a kidney donor is not so impressed with the proposals.
Kerigh Palmer, from Hertfordshire, whose first kidney transplant failed this summer, said the change would be "pointless" because, under the system the government is proposing, families could still stop donations.
"The majority of possible transplants are blocked by family members," she says.
"I don't think doctors should be saying 'these are your loved one's wishes, now what do you want to do?'"
"It takes away the individual's choice."
Image copyright Kerigh Palmer Image caption Kerigh Palmer does not think the new opt-out scheme goes far enough Kerigh's transplant story has been long and full of hurt.
After her kidneys failed in 2015, her wife, Julie, offered to donate hers.
But they weren't compatible so Julie donated to another patient, and Kerigh, 40, received hers from someone else.
Julie's recipient's transplant was a success.
Kerigh's, though, was not - complications during surgery meant it failed at the last hurdle.
As she drifted in and out of consciousness after the operation, she heard the words: "We are very sorry that it did not work."
"Is it true?"
she asked Julie, who was lying in a hospital bed nearby.
"It was devastating.
That person is living with my kidney effectively.
We feel pretty bitter."
Image copyright Kerigh Palmer Image caption Julie, left, saved another kidney patient's life.
But the kidney Kerigh received did not transplant successfully Straight after the gruelling failed operation, she was back on dialysis twice a week.
"I'm trying not to think about what's happened, because I will depress myself.
"I'm thinking ahead to Christmas, because I love Christmas.
I'm not thinking 'where's my next kidney coming from?'"
But she admits it would be life-changing to have a successful transplant.
"I wouldn't be tied to the hospital, I could work full-time without having to work from hospital, I could go abroad on holiday, eat what I like, not have to second-guess everything I do."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Greens told to look on the bright side after disappointing election At a meat-free conference in the pretty surrounds of Harrogate, Green Party members have been digesting their disappointing election result in June, when they polled around 525,000 votes - half their previous tally - and ended up with a vote share of just 1.6%.
But while the mood among the few hundred delegates gathered in Yorkshire is reflective - it's certainly not despondent.
Yes, party members admit, the snap election caught them off guard and they were squeezed by Jeremy Corbyn's resurgent Labour party, whose agenda encroached on territory previously claimed by the Greens.
And there has been considerable debate about whether the party was right to stand aside 22 candidates in marginal seats to give Labour or the Lib Dems a clear run at trying to beat the Tories.
One of those candidates told me she thought Green voters should have been able to choose the party they wanted to, and that anyone prone to making tactical choices would have done so anyway.
Another described the decision as "surrender" - seeing as there was no real payback from Labour or the Lib Dems by coming out strongly for electoral reform.
There are others though (including the leadership) who believe the hung parliament was, in part, a consequence of the Greens not fielding candidates in certain seats - and that it demonstrated a spirit of co-operation among parties.
But generally - across the conference, there is a sense of optimism that the Greens do still have a place and a role.
"Speaking truth to power" was the slogan of co-leader Jonathan Bartley's speech.
He said that from opposing fracking to being anti-austerity, the Greens had consistently set the agenda and their ideas were now "common currency".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Green Party stood aside for other candidates in 22 constituencies at the general election On issues such as tackling climate change, he said the Greens' "voice of truth" had never been more important.
And there was his commitment to a second Brexit referendum - on the final deal agreed with Brussels, a passionate defence of free movement of people and a claim that Britain's future was better in the EU.
But the party also wanted to make a case for a new economy - a Green economy - with people and the environment at its heart.
His speech on Monday was a morale-boosting address - to rally the troops and reassure them the Greens are still relevant.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption David Guetta's Titanium was often heard at the Tory conference There's not much to do while you're waiting for political leaders to start their party conference speeches - so attention often turns to their choice of warm-up music.
But now the parties have packed up for another year, what can we glean from their choices - particularly the Tories' apparent fondness for French DJ David Guetta?
Straight after Theresa May's eventful speech, two of pop's big names, Calvin Harris and Florence Welch, followed the time-honoured tradition of complaining about their songs being used.
But it was Titanium, a 2012 chart-topper by Guetta and Australian singer Sia, that was by far the most-played track at this year's Conservative conference in Manchester.
Earlier this year, Guetta told the Financial Times he was "never into politics" - and his mother was a communist who disapproved of her son "chasing materialistic dreams".
But it's the track's lyrics, not its writer, that caught the pundits' attention.
Coverage of Mrs May's speech was dominated by her struggle to finish it (she had a cough and was interrupted by a prankster) and the PM has been dogged by questions about her leadership throughout the conference.
So when Sia sings "I'm criticised but all your bullets ricochet, you shoot me down, but I get up, I'm bulletproof, nothing to lose, fire away, fire away," it seemed pertinent to some in the auditorium.
"You can always find meaning in songs political parties decide to play but [Titanium] is particularly poignant," said New Statesman journalist Anoosh Chakelian, pointing to the chorus line: "You shoot me down but I won't fall, I am titanium."
"[That] is May's position after losing her majority but staying in her job."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Did 2012 chart-topper Titanium sum up Theresa May's tricky speech?
A less sympathetic verdict was offered by 23-year-old party member Sophie Jarvis, who said the Guetta track was more relevant to "2012 Ibiza".
"To me it sounded like the playlist was put together by a 40-year-old thinking they're down with the kids," she says.
During her ill-fated general election campaign, Mrs May was accused of appearing "robotic" - a criticism she rejected, although she did admit the campaign - which was characterised by repetitions of its "strong and stable" slogan - was "too scripted".
"Theresa May repeatedly asserts she is not robotic," said Eliza Easton, a policy researcher who was at the conference.
"But Titanium, a song about a metallic woman unaffected by her challengers, is playing on repeat at the conference."
A party spokesman did not confirm how the playlist was selected or whether the prime minister was involved.
For the record, when Mrs May was asked in 2014 to choose her eight favourite songs on the BBC Radio 4 programme Desert Island Discs, her choices were mainly classical and did not include anything by David Guetta.
Just before the PM's big speech, Home Secretary Amber Rudd told BBC Radio 5 live the Tories had got their "mojo back" - and the playlist was certainly upbeat.
Besides Titanium, the most popular tune on the conference floor in Manchester was Journey's rousing 1981 hit Don't Stop Believing.
Titanium and Don't Stop Believing suggest a theme, according to Spectator journalist Katy Balls.
"I think [the Conservatives] are trying to suggest they are resilient in times of difficulty, like now."
Image caption Australian electronic music duo Empire of the Sun were chosen by Labour for its conference playlist The Tories' conference followed Labour's version in Brighton and the Liberal Democrats' in Bournemouth.
"Endless repetition of the same song is a common feature of these conferences," says Anoosh Chakelian, adding that Killers hit All These Things That I've Done was a particular favourite with the Conservatives during the David Cameron years.
Katy Balls was also at Labour's conference in Brighton last week, and found the mood more positive.
"Labour tried to suggest they were ready for power," she says.
"A song I remember most is Empire of the Sun - We Are the People (Who Rule the World)."
Beatles classic Here Comes the Sun ("the smiles returning to the faces...
I feel that ice is slowly melting") was played before Jeremy Corbyn took to the stage in a speech where he said his party was now united and ready for government.
Choosing the conference playlist for Brighton was a "team effort", says Mr Corbyn's spokesman, who did not confirm whether there was an intentional theme.
As it turned out it was the songs sung from the stage in Brighton - Tom Watson with Oh, Jeremy Corbyn and the leader himself with a rendition of Happy Birthday for Diane Abbott - that caught the attention.
They used to see Jeremy Corbyn as an unelectable throwback to the 1970s - but that was before the general election.
Do Conservatives now think he could be the next prime minister?
"I am afraid I have to say yes.
That doesn't appeal to me but I can see it."
Like many Conservatives who were in Manchester this week Ron Allcock is struggling to get his head round the idea of the Labour leader as a credible opponent.
"He is grabbing all the headlines and people are now thinking 'well, he isn't a bad guy after all'.
It's astonishing.
Really astonishing."
Image caption Ron Allcock says the party needs to do something "dramatic" What worries the 80-year-old Chelmsford councillor is that Mr Corbyn appears to have grown in confidence since the general election and that young people still appear to be flocking to his side.
"We have to think of something really dramatic to get their attention," he says.
Everyone you speak to here admits they underestimated the Labour leader - but opinions are divided over how to fight back.
Image caption Jane Hunt and Hilary Fryers think the Corbyn bubble will burst Some, such as Jane Hunt, whose dreams of unseating Labour's Lilian Greenwood in Nottingham South crashed and burned in June, believe the Corbyn bubble will burst.
"We need to get through the stage where Jeremy Corbyn is sexy.
He is going through a phase where people think he is a Messiah almost.
That will soon die off.
It's built on absolutely nothing as far as I can see."
Like others you speak to, she claims Mr Corbyn "hoodwinked" young people by promising to abolish tuition fees and "sort" their debts.
"I am afraid I think the students were absolutely conned and I think they will switch off from politics once they realise they've been conned.
They'll be switched off for a generation and that's really unfortunate."
It certainly cost her her own chances, she says, as students queued up outside polling stations to cast a ballot for her opponent, who got 10,000 extra votes.
Mrs Hunt's friend, Hilary Fryers, from Market Harborough, agrees that Corbynmania is "built on sand" and will eventually crumble.
Image caption Anthony Clarke says the election campaign was too negative Some Tories - including Theresa May's Parliamentary aide George Hollingberry - believe it was a mistake to attack Mr Corbyn on his record at the general election.
"It's not good just harping back to the 1970s, talking about Hamas, trying to do Jeremy Corbyn down, there's a message out there that people are listening to and we've got to tell them why it's dangerous, why it's wrong for the country and why they shouldn't fall for it," he told BBC Radio 4.
Anthony Clarke, the election agent for former Bath MP Ben Howlett, who lost his seat to Liberal Democrat Wera Hobhouse in June, says many Tory voters were turned off by the relentless attacks on Mr Corbyn's character.
"You could argue that we would have done much better if we ignored him, sidelined him," he says.
Image caption Diana Beech says Corbyn's polices need to be 'unpicked' But he has his doubts about whether the Labour leader will ever walk through the doors of Number 10.
"He is potentially quite a difficult opponent, for one reason or another.
I still don't rate him as somebody who is capable of ruling this country.
"When we have got Brexit out of the way and everything has settled down I don't think he will be in that position."
One thing everyone does agree on is that the party urgently needs to do more to attract younger voters.
"I think there is such a momentum growing out there, to coin a phrase", says Diana Beech, director of policy and advocacy for the Higher Education Policy Institute, and a Conservative Party member, "People feel disillusioned.
They want change.
I just think there is a growing momentum from the grassroots, helped by social media."
But she does not think the party should try to ape Jeremy Corbyn's policies.
"I think the only way to bring it down is to unpick the economic arguments."
Josh Rendall, of Chelsea and Fulham, pictured above, agrees.
"The party didn't appeal to under-40s at the last general election.
There was no overall vision.
"What the prime minister has done this week is a good step forward but having Labour-like policies, I don't think really works for anyone."
As for Mr Corbyn, he says: "I personally underestimated him.
"Just look at his conference speech last week, compared to the one a year ago or even two years ago.
He was a man who had confidence, he wasn't flailing about.
He was confident in himself and I think the party underestimated that."
The Conservatives need better policies on housing and student finance, not just watered-down versions of Jeremy Corbyn's policies, he argues, in what is becoming an increasingly familiar refrain at this conference, "but I don't know what they are".
Image copyright Getty Images A white picket fence, a good job, a nice car and a prosperous future for our kids - most of us have heard of the American Dream.
But what about this side of the Atlantic?
Theresa May promised to bring back the "British Dream" during her Conservative Party Conference speech - or the idea that "each generation should do better than the one before it".
She said her domestic servant grandmother, who has three professors and a prime minister as grandchildren, was proof the dream could be real, but admitted it felt "distant" and "out of reach" for many people today.
Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson insisted Mrs May had set out a vision of "how to renew" the British Dream - but others watching the speech questioned what it was in the first place.
"The British Dream?
What on earth is that?
Never heard of it.
What's in it?
Unicorns?"
David Hendy tweeted.
Others began offering their own interpretations of the dream.
Skip Twitter post by @Becca_DP the #britishdream is when u think 'it is a coat day' so u wear a coat and it turns out it was indeed a coat day and u are a good temperature beccadook (@Becca_DP) October 4, 2017 Report Despite the confusion, Mrs May is not the first politician to use the phrase.
Former UKIP MEP Steven Woolfe, who grew up on a council estate in Moss Side in Manchester, previously claimed he was "living proof" of the British Dream.
He described it as the chance to "succeed in your life, no matter your postcode, your gender or the colour of your skin".
It echoes the original idea behind the American Dream, which was coined by the writer James Truslow Adams in 1931.
He described the ideal of a land where life was "better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement".
Who dreamt it up?
Mr Johnson himself said in 2005, while editor of The Spectator and a shadow minister, that the UK had been "hopeless" at communicating any sense of a British Dream - compared with the Americans.
"We've all got to be as British as Carry On films and scotch eggs, and falling over on the beach while trying to change into your swimming trunks with a towel on," he wrote in the Telegraph.
Mr Johnson went on to say the first practical step was ensuring everyone in the UK speaks the same language.
"We should teach English, and we should teach in English.
We should teach British history."
But Michael Howard, writing in the Guardian shortly after the 7 July 2005 bombings in London, saw the dream differently.
Image copyright Working Title/BBC Image caption The success of fictional ballet dancer Billy Elliot has been likened to the British dream The then-Conservative Party leader thought it embodied the values of "decency, tolerance and a sense of fair play".
"We need to break down the barriers that exist in too many people's lives - and minds - that prevent or deter them from making a success of life," he said.
He nevertheless agreed with Mr Johnson that "no one" talked about a British Dream as they do in America.
Two years later, the academic Prof George Rodosthenous, a specialist in musical theatre, observed in a journal article that the British Dream was "a term which needs urgently a definition".
He was writing about the story of Billy Elliot - the fictional son of a coal miner who defies the odds to go to the Royal Ballet School in London - and defined it as "the desire to do better than one's own parents, the forbidden desire to dream and the action of dreaming".
'British drawbridge' Professor Pamela Cox, social historian at the University of Essex, said the British Dream has come to stand for home ownership, having a secure job and a living standard higher than your parents.
However, she believes it is "not a phrase that rolls off the tongue like the American Dream".
Prof Cox said the one thing that holds back the British Dream is what she calls the "British drawbridge".
"Elites are very good at pulling up the drawbridge behind them - things such as private schools and an inflated housing market.
"The British elite don't have much interest in sharing spoils.
It's very much about keeping it for themselves.
"The American Dream is much more 'anyone can make it'.
The British Dream is a different version - there is not a willingness for everyone to make it."
Image copyright Getty Images The claim: Prime Minister Theresa May said that following a speech at the Conservative Party conference in 2014, government action had meant "the number of black people being stopped and searched has fallen by over two-thirds".
Reality Check verdict: The number of black people being stopped and searched by police has fallen by two-thirds since 2010-11 but not since the 2014 conference.
Also, black people still form a disproportionately large percentage of those being stopped and searched and the percentage has actually risen since 2013-14.
As she delivered her keynote speech to the Conservative Party conference, the prime minister reminded Tories of what she sees as a key achievement - a reduction in the number of black people being stopped and searched, but all is not what it seems.
Theresa May spoke about a young black man called Alexander Paul who spoke at the conference in 2014 about his experience of police stop-and-search tactics.
She said: "Inspired by his example, we took action.
We shook up the system, and the number of black people being stopped and searched has fallen by over two-thirds."
The overall number of stop-and-searches fell dramatically between 2010-11 and 2015-16, which is the most recent year for which data is available.
So, the number of black people being stopped also fell.
This graph shows that the number of black people being stopped fell by two-thirds over the total period, but not since Mr Paul spoke at the conference in 2014.
Disproportionately stopped But even though far fewer black people are being stopped and searched, they are still more likely to be stopped than any other ethnic group.
When you look at the percentage of those stopped and searched who define themselves as black, little has changed.
It was 15.2% in 2010-11, and fell to about 11% in 2013-14.
Then it rose, and in 2015-16 was back up to 15.1%.
The 2011 census found that 3.3% of people in England and Wales defined themselves as black - meaning black people are being stopped and searched nearly five times as often as you would expect them to be.
So, while the number of black people being stopped and searched fell, their proportion of the total rose since Mr Paul spoke at the 2014 Conservative party conference.
Just to be clear - these figures don't include stop-and-searches related to terrorism or that are carried out because police are trying to manage an incident that affects public safety - those fall under different legislation and are recorded separately.
They would not have significantly changed the data.
Read more from Reality Check Follow us on Twitter
The nature of Brexit will ultimately be decided by the governments of the 27 remaining EU nations and the UK.
But the figures who negotiate the detail of the deal will be hugely important.
Many would argue that Germany's Angela Merkel and the UK's Theresa May are the two most important people in the Brexit negotiations.
But here are eight figures who will also be crucial to what happens.
Of the four from the UK, three are within the Exiting the EU department.
On the EU side, the figures represent the Commission (the EU's executive cabinet), the Council (the leaders of each member state) and the parliament of elected MEPs, who will have to approve the final deal.
The EU negotiators A seasoned master of French and EU diplomacy, chief negotiator Michel Barnier will go head-to-head with UK Brexit Secretary David Davis.
They used to be sparring partners in the 1990s, when they were rival Europe ministers with contrasting visions of the EU.
Like Mr Davis, Mr Barnier does not owe his current status to his country's elite club of politicians.
He did not attend the prestigious Ecole Nationale d'Administration, incubator of French political high-flyers.
He has already given a clear indication of the tough stance he will take in negotiations - from guaranteeing the rights of Polish students and Romanian nurses in the UK, and British pensioners living in Spain.
He is also adamant that the "sequencing" of the talks is key - the UK won't get to negotiate a trade deal until separation terms are agreed that preserve the integrity of the EU single market, and the UK settles its outstanding bills.
Michel Barnier made his mark in French politics by organising the 1992 Winter Olympic Games in the French Alps.
And for a long time he was regarded as a provincial - some called him "the ski instructor".
He served as France's Europe minister and was briefly foreign minister.
He stems from the Gaullist tradition.
It was Charles De Gaulle who famously said "Non" to the UK joining the Common Market.
Since 2010, Mr Barnier has been big in Brussels.
As internal market commissioner he had oversight of the City of London at a sensitive time - in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.
That role caused jitters in UK business circles, as Mr Barnier pushed through financial reforms.
While some in the City disapproved of new EU regulations on bank capital reserves and bankers' bonuses, other officials found him more accommodating to City interests later on.
And his opposite numbers in the Brexit talks will hope for the same pragmatism.
Who is Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier?
Sabine Weyand - one of "the Commission's best and brightest", according to its president, Jean-Claude Juncker - was picked as Mr Barnier's deputy chief negotiator in September.
She studied at Cambridge University in the 1980s, and knows well the country whose exit from the EU she will be helping to engineer.
But this German national is best known as a veteran at representing the Commission and its interests.
And that makes her a formidable opposite number.
She has 23 years' experience in trade relations and more than a decade at the Commission itself.
One Brussels lobby group predicted Ms Weyand was unlikely to give much ground in trade talks on any UK hopes of a la carte access to the EU, particularly any weakening of the EU single market ideal of free movement.
Those who have seen Ms Weyand in action speak highly of her as being far from a faceless cog in the Brussels machinery.
Cecile Toubeau, whose group campaigns for sustainable transport inside Europe, came into contact with her at the time the VW emissions scandal blew up in 2015.
"She was very straightforward, she got to the point quickly, she understood the issues that we were bringing," says Ms Toubeau.
"She was open to what we said but I felt she was able to say, 'That's politically not something we can consider'.
"She was no-nonsense and honest - she really knew her stuff.
She didn't need to look to her assistants for guidance."
In its list of the most influential women in Brussels, the politico.eu website put Ms Weyand at number eight, calling her a "Commission problem-solver".
She served in the cabinet of French former EU trade chief Pascal Lamy from 1999 to 2004, and later helped steer the EU's climate policies.
She also monitored national governments' economic and financial performance in the Commission's Secretariat-General.
In the run-up to the Brexit vote, Donald Tusk did all he could to find a deal to keep the UK in the EU.
He was apocalyptic when he warned that the UK leaving could end "in the destruction of not only the EU but also Western political civilisation in its entirety".
His efforts came to nothing and as the result emerged he tried to calm the waters in Brussels, saying "what doesn't kill you, makes you stronger".
But in the wake of PM Theresa May's re-election without a parliamentary majority, he warned the UK to make up for lost negotiating time, tweeting: "We don't know when Brexit talks start.
We know when they must end.
Do your best to avoid a 'no deal' as result of 'no negotiations'."
As president of the European Council, his challenge is to keep Europe's leaders united as they negotiate Britain's exit.
Mr Tusk, a former Polish prime minister, is loathed by Poland's nationalist government that tried and failed to unseat him.
But he has the respect of other European leaders for his handling of the conflict in eastern Ukraine, the migrant crisis and the Greek debt negotiations.
He has warned the UK not to expect to cherry-pick its way out of the EU and he has rejected British threats to walk away without a deal.
But he has spoken of his aspiration for a "smooth divorce" with the two sides breaking up as "good friends".
Mr Tusk is from Poland's Kashubian minority and grew up in Gdansk, the Baltic port city where anti-communist demonstrations, led by the Solidarity trade union, erupted in the 1980s.
He was active in Solidarity while studying history at the University of Gdansk.
As prime minister, Mr Tusk led Civic Platform (PO), which espoused free market policies.
His government cut jobs in the state sector, pursued privatisation, cut taxes to woo foreign investors and tried to persuade Poles abroad to come home.
Didier Seeuws, a hard-working diplomat with an eye for detail, was quickly tapped by Donald Tusk to head the Council's task force for the Brexit negotiations.
While the Barnier-Weyand Commission task force will do the "heavy lifting" in the negotiations - dealing with the technical detail of Britain's exit from the EU - the Council team will be tasked with keeping the remaining 27 national governments happy and shaping the EU's longer term strategic relationship with the UK.
Mr Seeuws will also have to bear in mind the views of MEPs - the European Parliament will have to approve the final deal.
Mr Seeuws's team is said to have been meeting twice a week in preparation for negotiations - prompting unhappy comparisons with the UK side's state of preparation in some of the media.
Mr Seeuws is respected for his role in handling the Greek debt negotiations - working through the night until dawn and overcoming divisions between heads of state to achieve a deal.
From 2007 to 2010, the 51-year-old technocrat from the Flemish city of Ghent was Belgium's deputy ambassador to the EU, where he is said to have negotiated a breakthrough on the European patent system - following a 30-year deadlock.
The ambassador he served under, Jean De Ruyt, told the BBC his political instincts were "always spot on" and that he "trusted his judgement and recommendations completely".
"Apparently modest and obliging, he is capable of mastering the most complex of technical issues and understanding immediately the political stakes, but at the same time able to explain in simple words what has been discussed or decided.
"I have no doubt that Didier will often be able to reach a fair compromise when, as expected, difficult negotiations will reach a stalemate."
Prior to this, Mr Seeuws served for several years as spokesman for the Belgian prime minister, none other than Guy Verhofstadt, the man chosen as chief Brexit negotiator for the European Parliament.
Eventually, Mr Seeuws took up a job as right-hand man to Donald Tusk's predecessor at the European Council, Herman van Rompuy.
He has since worked at the Council as head of transport, telecommunication and energy.
The UK negotiators A former SAS reservist, who grew up on a south London council estate, David Davis is a political maverick who had carved out a career as a champion of civil liberties before his unexpected return to front-line politics as secretary of state for exiting the EU.
Initially seen as an ultra-Thatcherite, he was elected to parliament in 1987, at the age of 38, after a career in management with sugar giant Tate and Lyle.
Despite his Eurosceptic views, he served as a government whip under pro-EU Prime Minister John Major in the early 1990s, attempting to get rebel Tory MPs to support the Maastricht Treaty, which paved the way for closer European integration.
He later served as Major's Europe minister, helping to negotiate some of the agreements with Brussels he is now charged with unpicking.
His "hard man" image, working-class background and staunch right-wing credentials made him the front runner to replace Michael Howard as Conservative leader in 2005.
He lost out to David Cameron, who made him shadow home secretary, where he carved out a distinctive niche for himself as a defender of traditional British freedoms.
In 2008, he dramatically resigned his Haltemprice and Howden seat, and his frontbench role, to fight a by-election in protest at Labour's plans for identity cards and 42-day detention without charge.
He won easily but rejected a job in the coalition government in 2010 to continue his civil liberties crusade from the backbenches, often in conflict with then Home Secretary Theresa May.
He was involved in legal action against the government over Mrs May's data retention plans - dubbed the "snoopers' charter" by critics - when he got the call to join her cabinet.
It was the first time in his long and colourful career that he had been put in charge of his own government department.
Olly Robbins is the top UK official at the Brexit talks.
At the start of the process, he was the top civil servant in David Davis's Exiting the EU department.
But he has now moved to the Cabinet Office to work more directly for the prime minister, following reports of tensions with Mr Davis.
The move was seen as a sign of Theresa May taking more control of Brexit negotiations.
He cut his teeth at Gordon Brown's Treasury, helping to co-ordinate public spending policy, before going on to serve in senior behind-the-scenes roles for both Tony Blair and Mr Brown in Downing Street.
By civil service standards, his rise was meteoric - he was Mr Blair's principal private secretary by the age of 31.
He gained a reputation for being a skilled mediator in the frequent disputes between No 10 and the Treasury.
"In all my dealings with him, he really embodied the essence of the impartial civil service, and he's very popular," former Olympics minister Lady Jowell, told website Politico.
After a spell as director of the civil service and as David Cameron's deputy national security adviser, Robbins became the senior civil servant in charge of immigration policy at Theresa May's home office.
When Mrs May became prime minister she drafted Robbins in as her senior EU adviser, prompting speculation the government wanted to put the free movement of people at the heart of Brexit negotiations.
Robbins generated some headlines in 2016 when he was ejected from a Home Affairs select Committee hearing by then chairman Keith Vaz for failing to give information about the UK Border Force's budget on time.
He was also caught on camera "grinning sheepishly" as Mrs May handed her handbag to him at an EU summit in Malta.
A career diplomat, with a reputation as a low-key but solid operator, Sir Tim Barrow was drafted into the role of UK ambassador to the EU following the resignation of Sir Ivan Rogers, who had accused the government of "muddled thinking" over Brexit.
Sir Tim was Britain's ambassador in Moscow between 2011 and 2015, a turbulent period in relations between the two nations, and previously served as Britain's ambassador to Ukraine.
The diplomat started his foreign office career in 1986 at the UK embassy in Brussels before going on to serve as a private secretary to Labour foreign secretary Robin Cook, advising on the EU, Russia and Middle East.
"It's the toughest negotiation in our lifetimes and I think he is up to it," Britain's former ambassador to Lebanon Tom Fletcher told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.
"I have seen him in Brussels.
He knows the corridors, he knows the characters.
But actually more importantly I saw him in Moscow where he was incredibly resilient as ambassador there, dealing with Putin in a very testing time in our relationship and Tim had a reputation of being bulletproof out there."
BBC diplomatic correspondent James Landale said Sir Tim was less likely to be criticised by Brexit supporters than some other potential candidates for the job, as it "would be very hard to say that Sir Tim Barrow is an out-and-out pro-European".
A fluent Russian speaker, Sir Tim was educated at Arnold Lodge in Leamington Spa, Warwickshire, and Oxford University.
As director general of David Davis's department, Sarah Healey is, in effect, second-in-command of the civil service machine tasked with delivering Brexit.
She comes fresh from a similar role at the culture department and also led cross-government efforts to promote more women into senior civil service roles through job-sharing arrangements.
Her previous claim to fame was as a contestant on University Challenge - she won the BBC Two quiz in 1998 and twice competed in the Champions of Champions competition for Magdalen College, Oxford.
Healey studied modern history and English at Oxford and gained a postgraduate degree in social policy from the London School of Economics before embarking on a career in the civil service.
Her former boss at the culture department, Tory MP Ed Vaizey, told the Times she was "incredibly sharp and intelligent", adding "there are no flies on her at all".
She worked briefly for Iain Duncan Smith, when he was work and pensions secretary, and, before that, was director of strategy and funding at the education department under Michael Gove.
She recently told a think tank conference that, as a student of history, freedom of information was an issue "close to my heart".
"One of the things I reflected on when I took this job was that my children, if they were to take history degrees, would write essays on what we were doing so it was terribly important that they do have access to the archives of the time," she said.
Profiles by Becky Branford, Paul Kirby and Brian Wheeler.
Illustrations by Gerry Fletcher.
Image caption Around 200 people attended the Conservative Ideas Festival The Conservatives have a problem.
More young people are voting than at any time in the last quarter of a century, but largely not for them - so what can the party do to change that?
It's been labelled - perhaps unfairly - the "Tory Glastonbury".
Around 200 activists, MPs, sympathetic thinkers and business people meet in the low September sunshine to discuss how the party can attract young voters.
Just two years ago, the split in support between Labour and the Conservatives among 18 to 29-year-olds was fairly even, 36% to 32%.
Fast forward to this June's general election and that small gap had become a chasm - according to pollsters YouGov - with Labour now on 64% to the Tories' 21%.
In fact, unless you were touching 50, you were in a minority if you voted Conservative.
'Panic mode' Addressing worried-looking party figures at the Big Tent Ideas festival in Berkshire, Lord Cooper - one-time director of strategy for ex-Prime Minister David Cameron - puts it starkly.
Older Conservative voters, he says, are dying.
And younger, more "open" voters are not going to decide when they hit 50 that "feminism and the internet and the green movement are a bad thing after all".
Unless the party responds, he adds, "it is going to die".
So what should they do?
Image caption Bim Afolami says the party "realises that there is a problem" in not attracting enough young voters "Somebody famous and clever said the Conservative Party only knows two modes - complacency or panic," says one of the Tories' youngest MPs.
"And we're definitely in panic mode."
Bim Afolami, an old Etonian and former banker, is 31 and has only been an MP for a few months, but his thoughts have already turned to this question.
"The party generally, collectively, realises that this is a problem," he says.
With the Budget less than two months away, he says Chancellor Philip Hammond recently told a meeting of Conservative backbenchers that the party must address two of the key issues for younger voters - housing and student debt.
Victoria Borwick - who represented the safe seat of Kensington until she became one of the 33 Conservative MPs swept away by Labour's better-than-expected showing in June - echoes the message.
"Every single MP should go back to their own area and see how they can build more housing for the next generation."
'Not Glastonbury' It might be only 100 miles away, but the Big Tent Ideas Festival couldn't be further from Glastonbury.
The music is Bach - perfectly rendered by a violinist.
The buffet is delicate and refined.
And there are more MPs in attendance than the young voters whom the ideas are intended to reach.
"This is not Glastonbury," Mr Afolami points out.
"It's more akin to (literature festival) Hay-on-Wye."
The comparison is clearly unfair, but does it matter?
The story goes that the brains behind the event, Conservative MP George Freeman, saw Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn cheered by thousands at Glastonbury over the summer and asked, "Why is it just the left who have all the fun in politics?"
Image caption MP James Cleverly says young people were offered an "electoral bribe" by Jeremy Corbyn Conservative MP James Cleverly is unimpressed.
"Wow, a left-wing leader getting a good reception at a rock festival," he says, ironically.
"What kind of crazy world is it we live in that that kind of thing happens?
"It's a bunch of young people who've just been given a massive electoral bribe."
Mr Corbyn - who said before the election he would "deal" with student debt - will be punished for taking "younger voters for fools", Cleverly says.
"Being hip, being popular, being cool, that's really easy," says Cleverly.
"Until you have to make tough decisions.
And when you have to make tough decisions, that veneer of coolness comes off real quick.
"So the better thing to do is to be right and be doing the right things for the right reasons rather than trying to be cool and popular and saying whatever thing is going to get good headlines or a big cheer at Glastonbury."
Diversity What, then, can the party learn?
Labour's general election campaign was praised for its use of social media and for reaching young people previously unmoved by party politics.
Tobi Alabi - a south Londoner who was invited to attend the ideas festival, and was courted by Conservatives there, but isn't a supporter - says the party was an irrelevance for most of his friends.
Labour, he says, related and appealed to young people.
Image caption Tobi Alabi says the Conservative Party did not display diversity "That's something the Conservative Party didn't do.
They didn't display diversity.
They didn't display an appeal to young people.
You have to tap into young people's interests."
So - if they do that - could those young people won over by Jeremy Corbyn's Labour one day support the Tories?
"Those people can be won back," says a hopeful Bim Afolami.
"Those are not people who have decided forever to vote for one person or one party.
"I think if we show them that we've got the right policies - but, more importantly, the right values - those are people that we can at least compete for in the future."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News channel.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Newly-reformed GCSEs are leaving teenagers 'spaced out and stressed out', Lauren Stocks tells Labour delegates It was a moment that caught the Labour party conference off-guard.
Sixteen-year-old Lauren Stocks had just received her GCSE results and wanted to talk about the toll that changes to the exams had taken on her and her classmates.
In a passionate speech, she articulated the scale of the mental health problems that blight her generation.
"There's a statistic we were shown when I was about 13 or 14 that told me three in 10 people in every classroom suffer with a mental illness.
Using strong language, she denied that to be the case.
"It's a good half.
"I could've walked into any food tech, history, art, maths classroom and just watched seas of spaced-out, stressed-out, depressed kids, in a battlefield where they can't afford pens and paper," she said, gulping hard.
"It is a disgusting sight," she told delegates, and urged parents of teenagers with newly-reformed GCSEs ahead of them to make sure they know they are loved.
In under three minutes, Lauren delivered a speech conveying the impatience of youth.
("I didn't make notes before I came on stage and my thoughts will be fairly scattered, so please go easy on me.")
Her audience were on their feet, cheering Lauren for a speech that's since been shared thousands of times on social media.
Image copyright Lauren Stocks Image caption Lauren has been a Labour party member since the age of 14 "It felt pretty weird," she tells the BBC.
"I was kind of in my own little world.
"To see everyone stand up - I really appreciated it."
And the plaudits didn't stop there.
"My Snapchat blew up," she says.
About 30 people from her old school contacted her to say they were really glad she had spoken up for them.
"I have suffered with many a mental health issue.
I was worried it was just me but the response was overwhelming."
Skip Twitter post by @braveteaching Crying, partly with pride that our schools have made the articulate & amazing Lauren Stocks & partly cos she has to spend her energy on this https://t.co/entxGdER5q Lucy Rimmington (@braveteaching) September 27, 2017 Report Some social media users though, with characteristic brutality, were less than warm, criticising her choice of hair dye and appearance.
The impact of these negative comments is something her mum, Sarah Hilton, worries about a lot but Lauren less so.
"They're saying: 'That's not a girl'.
"When I checked last night, I was definitely female," she says, laughing it off.
She also diplomatically brushes off the inevitable parallels being drawn with a famous 1977 Conservative conference speech by another 16-year-old, which was watched by a smiling prime minister-in-waiting - Margaret Thatcher.
"I haven't seen the speech but I have studied William Hague," she says.
"I don't have the best opinion of him."
Image copyright Lauren Stocks Image caption Lauren's mum, Sarah Hilton, says her daughter has been educating her about politics Despite her years, Lauren is no stranger to public speaking.
Now under-19 representative for North West Young Labour, she has been an activist for two years.
Her interest in politics was first piqued at 12 as she idly watched YouTube videos of people discussing left-wing ideas.
After a brief dalliance with the Greens, she joined the Labour party on 3 August 2015.
"I remember if as if it were yesterday," she says, almost wistfully.
A few weeks later, Lauren received an email asking people to attend a Manchester food bank that leader Jeremy Corbyn would be visiting.
"I asked mum if I could go.
I'd never been into Manchester alone before.
"My mum dropped me off at the food bank and after that they kept me involved," she says.
After her experience of sitting the new GCSEs, she says students should be empowered and told what they can achieve, not threatened that if they fail, they'll be left watching Jeremy Kyle all day.
This year's GCSE students in England were the first to sit exams which were numerically graded and tougher than in the past.
The changes, introduced by former education secretary Michael Gove, resulted in a dip in results, but schools minister Nick Gibb said pupils and teachers were rising to the challenge.
Exam regulators said the new qualifications had allowed students to better demonstrate their abilities and had better prepared them for further study.
A Department for Education spokesperson said: "We recognise there are challenges facing the profession including a more demanding curriculum and higher expectations for pupils.
Where staff are struggling we trust head teachers to take action to tackle the causes of stress and ensure they have the support they need.
"The government has also taken steps to reduce the burden of exams on young people including removing multiple, pointless resits and investing 1.4 billion in children's mental health services".
Image copyright Lauren Stocks Image caption Lauren met veteran Labour MP Dennis Skinner at the party conference Conference was, Lauren admits, a fast-paced eye-opener but also a chance to meet her heroes, Dennis Skinner ("soon-to-be Sir"), writer and activist Owen Jones ("I love him so much") and Laura Smith ("a rising star who I hope to see in Cabinet").
For all her enthusiasm for politics and its people - and despite lobbying from her mum - she is not certain that's where her future lies.
Lauren is now studying history, sociology and politics at college, and plans to stand for council in 2019.
But beyond that, she says she has no political ambitions.
"If it's meant to be, it's meant to be."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Election 2017: Highlights of TV election coverage An at-a-glance guide to the key points of the UK General Election.
The headlines The Conservatives have lost their Commons majority - the Tories are now the largest party in a hung Parliament Theresa May says she will form a government and work with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs, after going to Buckingham Palace to see the Queen.
The PM says she is "sorry" for colleagues who lost their seats.
Jeremy Corbyn says she should quit and Labour wants to attempt a minority government The Conservatives plus 10 DUP MPs have 328 seats - more than the other parties put together.
A so-called "progressive alliance" between Labour, SNP, Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru and Greens would have 314.
A majority is 326.
There are 262 seats for Labour - up 30 seats; 35 seats for the SNP, a loss of 21 seats; the Lib Dems are up four to 12 seats; Plaid Cymru on four seats; the Greens on one, and none for UKIP UKIP leader Paul Nuttall has resigned In Northern Ireland, the SDLP and the UUP have lost all their Westminster MPs after a night of big gains for the DUP and Sinn Fin The Lib Dems had a mixed night with some former big figures returning - but ex-leader Nick Clegg losing his seat Leader Tim Farron called on Theresa May to resign The SNP remains the largest party in Scotland but the Conservatives have won 12 seats from them so far; Labour have won seven; the Lib Dems three Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP is ready to work with others to try to keep the Conservatives out of government and block their Brexit strategy There is economic uncertainty reflected in the City Voter turnout is up by 2% to 69% - the highest since 1997.
The vote share is Conservative 42%, Labour 40%, Lib Dems 7%, UKIP 2% and the Greens 2%.
Labour put in a strong showing in Wales, taking back Gower, Cardiff North and Vale of Clwyd from the Conservatives Follow the latest news at it happens on our live page Big scalps Former Lib Dem Leader and one-time deputy PM Nick Clegg lost his Sheffield Hallam seat to Labour's Jared O'Mara Former SNP leader and former first minister of Scotland Alex Salmond was unseated in Gordon by the Conservatives' Colin Clark on swing of 20%, and the SNP's Westminster leader Angus Robertson also lost to Tory Douglas Ross.
Eight Conservative ministers were among those who lost out - Jane Ellison, Gavin Barwell, Rob Wilson, Ben Gummer, James Wharton, Nicola Blackwood, Simon Kirby and Edward Timpson.
Other notable results For more results, click here Sorry, your browser cannot display this content.
Find your constituency and candidates Enter a postcode or seat name Start typing to search Search for constituencies What the parties are saying Speaking outside Number 10, Theresa May said she intended to form a government which could "provide certainty and lead Britain forward at this critical time for our country".
She gave little detail on how the arrangement with the DUP may work.
DUP leader Arlene Foster confirmed she had spoken to Mrs May and they would speak further to "explore how it may be possible to bring stability to this nation at this time of great challenge".
Jeremy Corbyn said: "People have had quite enough of austerity politics" and Mrs May should "go and make way for a government that is truly representative of this country" Mr Clegg warned of a "grave gulf" between young and old in the UK and said the next Parliament will preside "over a deeply divided and polarised nation" Lib Dem leader Tim Farron said: "She called this election expecting a coronation, and took each and every one of us for granted in the most cynical way possible."
Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Brexit "is in some trouble" if Jeremy Corbyn forms a coalition and he will "have absolutely no choice" but to come back into British politics SNP Leader Nicola Sturgeon says the SNP has "won the election in Scotland" but she is disappointed to see losses: "We've got some reflection to do."
Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson: "Indyref 2 is dead in Scotland and Nicola Sturgeon needs to reflect on that."
"I'm afraid we ran a pretty dreadful campaign," said Conservative Anna Soubry who says the prime minister "needs to consider her position".
"I think it will be difficult for her to survive," DUP leader Arlene Foster on Theresa May.
Social media reaction The hashtag #HungParliament shot to the top of Twitter's list of top UK trends after the general election exit poll predicted that the Conservatives would lose their overall majority.
More than 70,000 messages were posted in under an hour.
Read more here The Cult of Curtice: Mild-mannered number-cruncher Professor John Curtice is a social media celebrity on a tense election night.
While UKIP's vote share is down, it is still all the rage on social media where the party has been trending all night.
Key video clips Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May says the UK needs a period of stability Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn: "I'm very, very proud of the campaign my party has run" Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Laura Kuenssberg says the result is a "total political disaster for Theresa May" Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This is the moment the general election exit poll is announced Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Clegg: 'There's a huge gulf between young and old' Analysis BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg: The conversations have started not just about whether the Tories will be able to form a government, but whether or not Theresa May can stay in her job.
There is no one prevailing mood inside the Tory party.
As I write, Mrs May is holed up with her advisers inside Tory HQ.
But a former minister Anna Soubry has called for her to "consider her position" - political code for calling for her to resign.
Read more from Laura John Curtice, Professor of Politics at the University of Strathclyde This is the third post-war snap election called unexpectedly before a party's term of office had come to an end.
On the two previous occasions in 1970 and February 1974 the PM and the party lost office.
While there is no other conceivable administration in the new parliament other than a Conservative-led one, it remains to be seen whether the PM will retain her position.
However, so long as the Conservatives can reach an accommodation with the DUP they will have a working majority in the House of Commons.
BBC economics editor Kamal Ahmed: When the general election exit poll was revealed at 10pm, the pound immediately dropped by 2% as investors took a position that a hung parliament was a possible outcome of the general election.
Why would that cause the currency to decline?
Because a hung parliament means that the government's direction of travel would be less certain.
Read more from Kamal Philip Sim, BBC Scotland political reporter: If Prime Minister Theresa May does not appear to have had a particularly good night, Ruth Davidson, the Tory leader in Scotland, certainly has.
The Scottish Tories have more than doubled their returns in some places where the party was previously unelectable.
Read more from Philip In pictures Image copyright AFP Image caption The exit poll projected onto BBC Broadcasting House Image copyright Reuters Image caption Jeremy Corbyn said he was "humbled" by the size of the vote for him See more images from the night here Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mrs May said it was now incumbent on the Conservatives to offer "stability" Image caption Nick Clegg: "Live by the sword, you die by the sword" Image copyright EPA Image caption Nicola Sturgeon was disappointed by losses but said the SNP remained the biggest party in Scotland
The Conservatives have lost seats in Parliament and no longer enjoy an overall majority, while Labour has exceeded the expectations of pollsters and increased its number of MPs.
But this isn't the whole story... 1.
The Conservatives won 20 seats Although it was a bad night for Theresa May's party overall, with 33 MPs ejected from Parliament, it actually won seats elsewhere.
The majority of their gains were in Scotland, where the Conservatives performed well against the SNP, unseating the former SNP leader Alex Salmond in Gordon.
The party also took six seats from Labour, and snatched Clacton from UKIP.
2. Who lost seats to Labour?
Labour's six losses were offset by 36 gains - 28 of which were from the Conservatives and two from the Lib Dems - including Nick Clegg's former seat of Sheffield Hallam.
The party also took six Scottish seats from the SNP.
3.
Most of the changes were in Scotland and the north of England Although the political landscape of Northern Ireland has also shifted dramatically with the UUP and the SDLP losing all of their MPs.
Changed seats All seats Please enable Javascript to view our results map Con Con Lab Lab SNP SNP LD LD PC PC UKIP UKIP Ind Ind DUP DUP SDLP SDLP UUP UUP SF SF Green More maps showing the changes from 2015 to 2017 are here.
4.
The SNP saw some huge majorities disappear The table below shows the largest majorities in the last general election in 2015 that have been overturned.
Nine of the largest 10 previously belonged to the SNP - a 14,000-vote majority won by the party's former spokesperson on social justice, Eilidh Whiteford, in 2015 has been converted into a 4,000-vote majority for the Conservatives.
Constituency (out of 650 so far) Result 2015 Majority 2017 Majority Banff & Buchan CON GAIN FROM SNP 14339 3693 Coatbridge, Chryston & Bellshill LAB GAIN FROM SNP 11501 1586 Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock CON GAIN FROM SNP 11265 2774 Angus CON GAIN FROM SNP 11230 2645 Stirling CON GAIN FROM SNP 10480 148 Ochil & South Perthshire CON GAIN FROM SNP 10168 3359 Rutherglen & Hamilton West LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9975 265 Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9974 259 Midlothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9859 885 Canterbury LAB GAIN FROM CON 9798 187 Oxford West & Abingdon LD GAIN FROM CON 9582 816 Glasgow North East LAB GAIN FROM SNP 9222 242 Moray CON GAIN FROM SNP 9065 4159 Gordon CON GAIN FROM SNP 8687 2607 Battersea LAB GAIN FROM CON 7938 2416 Kensington LAB GAIN FROM CON 7361 20 Aberdeen South CON GAIN FROM SNP 7230 4752 Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine CON GAIN FROM SNP 7033 7949 East Lothian LAB GAIN FROM SNP 6803 3083 Warwick & Leamington LAB GAIN FROM CON 6606 1206 Reading East LAB GAIN FROM CON 6520 3749 Dumfries & Galloway CON GAIN FROM SNP 6514 5643 Foyle SF GAIN FROM SDLP 6046 169 South Down SF GAIN FROM SDLP 5891 2446 Colne Valley LAB GAIN FROM CON 5378 915 Mansfield CON GAIN FROM LAB 5315 1057 Portsmouth South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5241 1554 Stockton South LAB GAIN FROM CON 5046 888 Bristol North West LAB GAIN FROM CON 4944 4761 High Peak LAB GAIN FROM CON 4894 2322 Stroud LAB GAIN FROM CON 4866 687 Enfield Southgate LAB GAIN FROM CON 4753 4355 Caithness, Sutherland & Easter Ross LD GAIN FROM SNP 3844 2044 Bath LD GAIN FROM CON 3833 5694 Ipswich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3733 831 Renfrewshire East CON GAIN FROM SNP 3718 4712 Crewe & Nantwich LAB GAIN FROM CON 3620 48 Clacton CON GAIN FROM UKIP 3437 15828 Edinburgh West LD GAIN FROM SNP 3210 2988 Ceredigion PC GAIN FROM LD 3067 104 Keighley LAB GAIN FROM CON 3053 249 Leeds North West LAB GAIN FROM LD 2907 4224 Kingston & Surbiton LD GAIN FROM CON 2834 4124 Warrington South LAB GAIN FROM CON 2750 2549 Copeland CON WIN 2564 1695 Stoke-on-Trent South CON GAIN FROM LAB 2539 663 Sheffield Hallam LAB GAIN FROM LD 2353 2125 Middlesbrough South & Cleveland East CON GAIN FROM LAB 2268 1020 Dunbartonshire East LD GAIN FROM SNP 2167 5339 Cardiff North LAB GAIN FROM CON 2137 4174 Twickenham LD GAIN FROM CON 2017 9762 Walsall North CON GAIN FROM LAB 1937 2601 Peterborough LAB GAIN FROM CON 1925 607 Derbyshire North East CON GAIN FROM LAB 1883 2861 Lincoln LAB GAIN FROM CON 1443 1538 Southport CON GAIN FROM LD 1322 2914 Bedford LAB GAIN FROM CON 1097 789 South Antrim DUP GAIN FROM UUP 949 3208 Belfast South DUP GAIN FROM SDLP 906 1996 Weaver Vale LAB GAIN FROM CON 806 3928 Eastbourne LD GAIN FROM CON 733 1609 Brighton Kemptown LAB GAIN FROM CON 690 9868 Fermanagh & South Tyrone SF GAIN FROM UUP 530 875 Plymouth Sutton & Devonport LAB GAIN FROM CON 523 6807 Bury North LAB GAIN FROM CON 378 4375 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk CON GAIN FROM SNP 328 11060 Vale of Clwyd LAB GAIN FROM CON 237 2379 Croydon Central LAB GAIN FROM CON 165 5652 Derby North LAB GAIN FROM CON 41 2015 Gower LAB GAIN FROM CON 27 3269
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Theresa May awaiting her constituency result in the early hours of Friday The post mortem on how Theresa May managed to lose her majority in Thursday's general election after expecting to secure a landslide victory is well under way.
Here are 10 theories.
First things first.
Did she blow it?
Yes.
The Conservatives came first in this election with 318 seats, with Labour the next biggest party on 262 seats.
The Conservatives got more votes that anyone else - 42.4% to Labour's 40% - and Theresa May's party got more votes than anyone since the record-breaking total John Major received in 1992.
And yes, that means she got more votes than Tony Blair's New Labour landslide in 1997.
So, you ask, in what sense did she blow it?
Well, she had 331 MPs - more than the 326 needed to have a Commons majority - when she decided to call the election with the aim of increasing her majority.
She also began the campaign with an undisputed opinion-poll lead in double figures and a landslide victory within her grasp.
She ends it having to try to do a deal with the 10 Democratic Unionist Party MPs to stay in power, and knowing that, the decision to call a snap election will go down as one of the biggest own goals in British political history.
So how did it come to this?
1) Deciding to call an election Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Reaction from Bristol: 'You're joking.
Why does she need to do it?'
Theresa May had been serenely racking up stunning approval ratings and huge opinion-poll leads.
Her constant refrain was "Brexit meant Brexit" and it seemed a serious, tough, honest and non-flashy politician was what the British people wanted.
Her honeymoon period felt like that of another self-consciously unshowy prime minister who came to power without an election - Gordon Brown.
But unlike Mr Brown in 2007, she did not allow speculation about a snap election to run rife only to blow her reputation by deciding not to call one after all.
She ruled out having an election.
And then she changed her mind.
She insisted she was acting in the national interest but others detected baser motives.
Jeremy Corbyn said: "How can any voter trust what the prime minister says?".
Nicola Sturgeon said it was a naked power grab and a bid to crush all opposition.
The public, like Brenda in Bristol, seemed weary of politics and voting.
2) The wrong type of campaign Image copyright Getty Images This was Theresa May's election - the Conservatives were some way off in the distance, if they were visible at all, at the start of the campaign.
But was she the right kind of candidate to be placed front and centre like this?
Katie Perrior, Mrs May's former director of communications thinks not.
Writing in the Times, she said: "If you run a presidential-style campaign with a woman who doesn't like media interviews, then you have to accept that it's better to do them and run the risk that they go badly than look like you are running scared.
Furthermore, if you want to brag that your candidate is a bloody difficult woman, then she has to show some empathy to remind people she is human after all."
3) Dodging the TV debates Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Home Secretary Amber Rudd and senior politicians from six other parties took part in the debate.
With huge poll leads at the start of the campaign it was quickly decided that Mrs May would not take part in anything as risky as a TV debate with her main challenger, Jeremy Corbyn, or risk meeting too many members of the public in big rallies.
That decision backfired when Mr Corbyn decided to take part in a seven-way debate with other party leaders - he did not make a big deal of her absence, but everybody else on the stage did.
The Green Party's Caroline Lucas said: "You don't say it's the most important election of our lifetime and not be bothered to show up."
Mrs May might have performed badly in the debate, but she arguably took a far bigger reputational hit by not taking part, as it opened her up to accusations she was running scared, or that she was complacently assuming victory.
4) Underestimating the opposition Image copyright Reuters Sporting history is littered with underdogs triumphing because they wanted to win more than their opponents, or put in more effort.
The same sometimes goes for politics.
In this election Mrs May seemed like she would be happy to say "strong and stable" from dawn until the sun set over the fields of wheat she "naughtily" ran through as a child.
There was little in the way of a positive message to entice floating voters.
Her campaign team did not seem able to conceive of the idea that anyone would take Mr Corbyn seriously.
They underestimated how well his anti-austerity message would go over with voters worn out by years of frozen wages and public spending squeezes.
Many commentators, on the left and right, who had written Jeremy Corbyn off as vote-losing liability have had to eat their words since the election.
Just about everyone underestimated his appeal, once he was given a chance to air his views unmediated by a largely hostile press.
5) Manifesto policies Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Anna Soubry has given a frank assessment of her party's campaign The turning point of the campaign, according to insiders, was Theresa May's U-turn on social care.
Team May were apparently so confident of victory that they thought they could tackle the looming problem of social care costs - an issue parties scrapping to win elections have generally shied away from.
But within hours the main thing many people knew about the Conservative programme for government was that it included a "dementia tax" that could lead to more people having to sell their homes to pay for care.
The same went for means-testing the winter fuel allowance and ending the "triple lock" that guarantees a minimum 2.5% increase in the state pension.
Mrs May might have got away with the rapid U-turn on social care - something that is almost unheard of the middle of an election campaign - if she had owned up to it but she continued to insist that nothing had changed.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Theresa May: This is the right way forward Anna Soubry, an anti-Brexit Tory MP said this was the moment that she lost her "strong and stable" reputation.
Some Conservative MPs have suggested, off the record, that the 2017 manifesto was the worst the party has ever published.
Ms Soubry said it was more a problem of "appalling" presentation - not properly explaining the social care changes, which would actually have benefited many less well-off people - and allowing people to think free school meals for poor children were being axed, when in fact the plan was to end the free lunches for all infants, which benefits the better-off.
6) Not reacting to the Labour surge Image copyright Reuters Nick Timothy, pictured, who was forced out as Theresa May's policy adviser after the election result, suggests Team May were not even aware that there was a surge in Labour support as polling day approached.
In his resignation statement, he said this was "because modern campaigning techniques require ever-narrower targeting of specific voters, and we were not talking to the people who decided to vote for Labour".
Instead of pushing their message on the NHS and the energy price cap to get wavering Labour voters on side, they doubled down on what they thought was their strongest suit - Brexit and "strong and stable leadership" in contrast to a "coalition of chaos" under Mr Corbyn.
7) May's personality Image copyright Getty Images People knew very little about Theresa May before the campaign started - she had been home secretary for a long time but had not courted publicity like some of her cabinet colleagues.
An introvert, by Westminster standards, who does not like talking about her private feelings, she tended to come across as ill-at-ease on the TV sofa.
Like Hillary Clinton in last year's US elections, she was not a natural on the campaign trail either.
As Daily Mail sketch writer Quentin Letts pointed out at one event, she tended to look a bit miserable, or as he put it, a "glumbucket'.
Mr Corbyn, on the other hand, looked like he was enjoying himself.
At the end of the campaign, Mrs May had to rely on Boris Johnson, a natural political showman, to whip up the crowds.
8) Negativity and the youth vote Image copyright Getty Images Theresa May spent a lot of time attacking Jeremy Corbyn's credibility and, as Nick Timothy has acknowledged, not enough time setting out her "positive plan for for the future".
There are shades of Clinton here again, who focused heavily on attacking her opponent's fitness for office rather than explaining what she would do with power.
Conservative attacks on Mr Corbyn's anti-terror record will have sounded alarm bells with older readers of Conservative-supporting newspapers.
They may have meant less to anyone under 30, who were more interested in what the Labour leader had to say about their future rather than who he was holding meetings with decades ago.
Labour countered Tory attack ads on Facebook with upbeat messages and celebrity endorsements.
Labour's successful push to get out the youth vote was a decisive factor in some seats, although there is still some debate about the size of the surge in voting among 18 to 24-year-olds.
The Tory campaign was widely criticised for being negative and uninspiring.
9) Fox hunting and 'the same old Tories' Image copyright EPA Image caption Anti-hunting protesters marched on Downing Street It may simply have been a repetition of a longstanding Tory policy but Theresa May's vow to hold a free vote on bringing back fox hunting is thought by some to have harmed her efforts to seal the deal with Labour voters flirting with the Conservatives.
It came up a lot on the doorstep, according to some reports, helping to "re-toxify" the Conservative brand among voters in traditional Labour areas, which Mrs May was banking on to win a big majority.
Like the social care U-turn, or the pledge to bring back grammar schools, it may have given anyone flirting with backing the Tories for the first time in their lives a reason not to switch their vote.
10) Events Theresa May wanted the election to be about Brexit but the terror attacks in Manchester and London changed the course of the campaign.
Suddenly it was all about security and anti-terror policy.
This should have put the former home secretary in a strong position, and her statements on the attacks struck a suitably prime ministerial tone.
Labour's criticism of cuts to police numbers gave them a line of attack against Mrs May - but the pause in campaigning that followed the terrorist incidents resulted in a sombre and strangely off-kilter ending to the election.
Here is a selection of your views: "Ignoring remain voters - too much focus on "no deal is better than a bad deal" and complaining that Remain voters were "citizens of nowhere" alienated the 48%.
Playing so much to the UKIP vote backfired in many areas of the country.
Evidence for this: the swing to Labour from Tories was much larger in Remain voting areas than Leave voting ones," Sue, York.
"Jeremy Corbyn was reckless and irresponsible in the promises he was making particularly to the youth voters.
Promising to give 'free university' at a cost to the UK of 11.5 Billion a year, is an example of the 'money tree' that pays for all !
Corbyn could afford to be reckless in his election promises because he didn't expect to win or be PM."
Ron, Stoke-on-Trent.
"The Conservatives underestimated the collapse in the number of votes for the UKIP party.
It must have been apparent that these votes would go somewhere and not necessarily all to the Conservative Party.
Clearly some of these went to the Labour Party.
The Labour Party will always have a strong backing in the cities and these extra votes from the UKIP party helped Labour get more seats.
This should have been anticipated and calculated before Mrs May called the election so some of her advisers and backroom staff got it clearly wrong and miscalculated - or was it Mrs May just determined to call the election whatever?," Jeff "Definitely Fox Hunting swayed me.
I left the Labour Party as a member when JC became leader.
I didn't think he was electable (and he still might not be) and predicted a Labour wipe-out with him at the helm.
But as the election went on I was slowly taken back into the fold by his positive campaign.
I'd always agreed with his policies, just him as a leader I had doubts over.
The more he engaged though the more I cheered, and once the manifestos where published it was game over for the Tories.
But yes, the fox hunting was the initial game changer (as it was announced early on) - and then everything else just fell into place," Ian, Chester.
"I'm surprised that more hasn't been made of the proposed boundary changes, which would have reduced MPs from 650 to 600.
If May had forced these through and then called the election she would have undoubtedly won a majority, as they massively favour the Conservatives.
One report suggested that under the new boundaries Labour could be 10% ahead of the Tories and still not have a majority," Andrew, Loughborough.
"The Tories did not lose their majority over the stance favouring a hard Brexit.
They lost seats because the majority accept that Brexit will happen and all the other issues of economic and social policy were more important issues in the election.
Mrs May needs to ignore the pro Remain Major, Cameron and Clarke who are using the situation to try to reverse their defeat in the Referendum," Ian "You've laid out some good reasons but as you state, both the Conservative and Labour vote increased...... why?
Because of a huge amount of tactical voting especially driven by social media.
A lot of the "Remainers" had been horrified about the way that she'd embraced a Hard Brexit and even though Labour supported Brexit, they felt that not voting Tory would potentially hinder this outcome.
Labour need to bear this in mind too.
As a lot of people like me "lent" them their vote," Paul, Newcastle-under-Lyme "Was there any evidence to suggest that tactical voting also played a part in the demise of the Conservative majority?
Were voters were more likely to vote for their second choice party if it meant stopping a Tory candidate from winning their constituency?
Clearly this could have been a case in constituencies where non-contest agreements were forged e.g.
Brighton Pavilion (Caroline Lucas), and in Twickenham where there was an absence of any campaign leaflets from any parties other than Lib Dems and Conservatives," John, London I am surprised by your list of reasons for the Conservative election results.
For me this is very much about Brexit and Theresa May's stance.
She was a remainer but since being elected has used a rhetoric which concerns much of the UK population.
So this result is a protest against hard Brexit which will damage the UK economy beyond repair.
It is also the young peoples's recognition that their vote matters.
Had they voted in the referendum the result would have been remain, and they are angry and want their voices heard, Louise, Hampshire "The media, including the BBC, displayed an attitude of sneering contempt towards Jeremy Corbyn ever since he was elected Labour Party leader right up to the recent election campaign.
Even the Guardian only endorsed Corbyn at the last minute, when it sensed which way the tide was running.
This must raise serious questions about how 'free' our media really are, and who plots their editorial course.
Time for another independent enquiry, perhaps?," John, Coventry "Another nail in the coffin of May's majority is her too-cosy relationship with Trump and particularly her failure to unreservedly condemn him for pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement.
Saying that she was 'disappointed' was nowhere near strong enough," Ron, Cambridgeshire "It will be a rare day a Conservative calls another election without a 35 point lead in the polls.
No wonder Labour is cambering for another election, Labour would rather enjoy another election in the next six months.
Whereas, as a postman, I would not."
Paul, Lincolnshire Everyone is tired of austerity, even those who are managing well.
It's interesting how many of the affluent, metropolitan elite voted Labour, even though they were the ones who would be paying the bulk of the extra taxes.
Whether they would have voted the same way if they'd thought he actually stood a chance of winning is a different question.
Paul, London
Autumn sees Britain's political parties gathering by the sea - or in big city conference centres - here's a round-up of this year's.
Conservatives - 1-4 October in Manchester Image copyright PA The most memorable moments of the 2017 Conservative conference came at the very end, in a speech more eventful than Theresa May and her team could have imagined.
The prime minister was plagued by a cough which left her relying on gulps of water - and even a cough sweet handed to her by the chancellor - to complete some lines.
If that wasn't bad enough, prankster Simon Brodkin had somehow gained access to the conference floor and handed her a mocked-up P45.
"I was about to talk about somebody I'd like to give a P45 to, and that's Jeremy Corbyn," the PM quipped, to cheers from the party faithful.
It didn't end there - some of the letters fell off the conference stage backdrop behind her, leaving it as: "Building a country that works or everyon."
The speech had been billed as the PM's attempt to reassert her authority after the ill-fated snap general election and reports of splits in her cabinet over Brexit.
It also contained policy pledges on social housing and a cap on standard tariff energy bills, while Home Secretary Amber Rudd announced a ban on acid sales to under 18s and a tightening of the laws on viewing terrorist content online.
In his speech, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson - who has been accused of undermining the PM with his interventions on Brexit strategy - said it was time to "let the British lion roar".
Mrs May ended the conference being publicly supported by her MPs and ministers although there were reports of "emerging plots" among some MPs.
Labour - 24-27 September in Brighton Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In full: Jeremy Corbyn's 75 minute speech Jeremy Corbyn ended Labour's week in Brighton with a speech to delegates in which he claimed the party was "on the threshold of power".
The centre ground of British politics had shifted, he argued, and his Labour Party was now in the "political mainstream" because its polices were "what most people in our country actually want".
He used the speech to announce some new policies - such as rent controls and curbs on gentrification - but it was mainly a chance to rally the troops for another election campaign, with the Tory government "hanging by a thread".
His supporters in the hall loved it, although they were chanting "Oh, Jeremy Corbyn" for a full two minutes before he had even begun.
This conference cemented Mr Corbyn's dominance of the party, following his better-than-expected general election result.
There was a row about Brexit, with moderate MPs, who want Mr Corbyn to commit to keeping the UK in the single market and customs union, feeling they had been denied a vote on this issue and the chance to debate it more fully.
And Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell caused a stir when he warned Labour must prepare for all eventualities in government, including a possible run on the pound.
But delegates approved changes to the way leaders are elected, which could make it easier to elect a left-wing successor to Mr Corbyn.
SNP - 8-10 October in Glasgow Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Opening her conference speech, Nicola Sturgeon says: "At the risk of tempting fate, I have come prepared" SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon insisted her party will "always make the case for independence" as she used her keynote speech to focus on domestic priorities rather than constitutional matters.
Although the Scottish government has delayed plans for a second independence referendum, Ms Sturgeon said her party still had a mandate for a vote on the issue.
The "essence of independence", she told activists, was being "in the driving seat and not simply at the mercy of events" as she stressed the case for leaving the UK did not merely hinge on Brexit.
Her headline policy announcement was a plan to set up a publicly-owned, not-for-profit energy company by 2021.
She argued the venture would give people - particularly on low incomes - more choice of which supplier to use with energy sold at "close to cost price as possible".
Spending on early-years childcare in Scotland will be doubled to 840m by 2020, a move the SNP said would be "truly transformational", while there will be a new scheme to provide free sanitary products in schools, colleges and universities from next August.
Liberal Democrats - 16-19 September in Bournemouth Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Liberal Democrat conference: Sir Vince Cable's full speech The Liberal Democrats gathered by the seaside having modestly increased their tally of MPs to 12 in the recent general election, following an electoral drubbing in 2015 that left them with just eight.
In his keynote speech to conference, new leader Sir Vince Cable said he could lead the Lib Dems back to power by offering a mix of "hope and realism".
He called for higher taxes on foreign property speculators and second home owners to help tackle inequality.
And he claimed Brexit would be an act of "masochism", leaving the UK poorer.
UKIP - 29-30 September in Torquay Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mr Bolton won the UKIP leadership contest with 30% of the vote UKIP members met for a two-day conference in which new leader Henry Bolton was crowned.
The former soldier, who saw off challenges from better-known candidates, told members: "Brexit is our core task.
However it is not the end of the line."
Controversial anti-Islam candidate Anne Marie Waters finished second.
Some MEPs had threatened to quit if she had won.
UKIP's share of the vote in the general election collapsed to just 1.8%, prompting the resignation of then-leader Paul Nuttall.
Green Party - 7-10 October in Harrogate Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Greens told to look on the bright side after disappointing election Green Party co-leader Jonathan Bartley spoke of the "hurt" he and others felt at the party's loss of ground in June's election, where its vote share more than halved.
While the Greens had suffered at the hands of the two-party system in England and Wales, he said it could be proud of the causes it had espoused and the influence it had had on debates around austerity and fracking.
Through its national and local representation, he said the party would stick up for the "little guy" as it made the case for far-reaching economic change.
He called for more public input into the funding of services, locally controlled energy schemes and bank investment in "community bonds".
Plaid Cymru - 20-21 October in Caernarfon Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Leanne Wood said Plaid Cymru had "the ambition to show a new way for Wales" Leanne Wood vowed to stay on as leader of Plaid Cymru at the party's conference.
She told the conference they needed to earn the trust of non-Plaid Cymru voters whilst announcing the party could back a second Brexit referendum if there was no deal with the EU by March 2019.
Ms Wood also announced proposals to re-train manual workers whose jobs are threatened by automation and promised a "rail revolution".
The party saw a drop in their share of the vote in June's general election, although they gained a seat.
Meanwhile Plaid Cymru AM Neil McEvoy, who was suspended from the party following a row over policy on council house sales, dismissed suggestions he was planning a leadership challenge at a fringe meeting.
Here is an easy-to-understand guide to Brexit - beginning with the basics, then a look at the negotiations, followed by a selection of answers to questions we've been sent.
What's happening now?
The UK has voted to leave the European Union.
It is scheduled to depart on 29 March, 2019.
Talks are currently taking place on three aspects of how Brexit will work - focusing on how much the UK owes the EU, what happens to the Northern Ireland border and what happens to UK citizens living elsewhere in the EU and EU citizens living in the UK.
The UK wants to talk about future trade relations - and a plan for a two year "transition" period to smooth the way to post-Brexit relations.
But the EU says they will not talk about the future until enough progress has been made on the other issues.
What does Brexit mean?
It is a word that has become used as a shorthand way of saying the UK leaving the EU - merging the words Britain and exit to get Brexit, in a same way as a possible Greek exit from the euro was dubbed Grexit in the past.
Why is Britain leaving the European Union?
A referendum - a vote in which everyone (or nearly everyone) of voting age can take part - was held on Thursday 23 June, 2016, to decide whether the UK should leave or remain in the European Union.
Leave won by 51.9% to 48.1%.
The referendum turnout was 71.8%, with more than 30 million people voting.
Find the result in your area What was the breakdown across the UK?
England voted for Brexit, by 53.4% to 46.6%.
Wales also voted for Brexit, with Leave getting 52.5% of the vote and Remain 47.5%.
Scotland and Northern Ireland both backed staying in the EU.
Scotland backed Remain by 62% to 38%, while 55.8% in Northern Ireland voted Remain and 44.2% Leave.
See the results in more detail.
What changed in government after the referendum?
Image copyright PA Britain got a new Prime Minister - Theresa May.
The former home secretary took over from David Cameron, who announced he was resigning on the day he lost the referendum.
Like Mr Cameron, Mrs May was against Britain leaving the EU but she played only a very low-key role in the campaign and was never seen as much of an enthusiast for the EU.
She became PM without facing a full Conservative leadership contest after her key rivals from what had been the Leave side pulled out.
Where does Theresa May stand on Brexit?
Theresa May was against Brexit during the referendum campaign but is now in favour of it because she says it is what the British people want.
Her key message has been that "Brexit means Brexit" and she triggered the two year process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
She set out her negotiating goals in a letter to the EU council president Donald Tusk.
She outlined her plans for a transition period after Brexit in a big speech in Florence, Italy.
How did the snap election change things?
Image copyright Getty Images Theresa May surprised almost everyone after the 2017 Easter Bank Holiday by calling an election for 8 June (it had been due in 2020).
She said she wanted to strengthen her hand in Brexit negotiations with European leaders.
She said Labour, the SNP and other opposition parties - and members of the House of Lords - would try to block and frustrate her strategy.
However Mrs May did not increase her party's seats in the Commons and she ended up weakened, having to rely on support from the 10 MPs from Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party.
You can get more detail on the 2017 election here.
What has happened to the UK economy since the Brexit vote?
David Cameron, his Chancellor George Osborne and many other senior figures who wanted to stay in the EU predicted an immediate economic crisis if the UK voted to leave and it is true that the pound slumped the day after the referendum - and remains around 10% lower against the dollar and 15% down against the euro.
But predictions of immediate doom were wrong, with the UK economy estimated to have grown 1.8% in 2016, second only to Germany's 1.9% among the world's G7 leading industrialised nations.
The UK economy has continued to grow at almost the same rate in 2017.
Inflation has risen since June 2016 to stand at 3%, but unemployment has continued to fall, to stand at a 42 year low of 4.3%.
Annual house price increases have fallen from 9.4% in June 2016 but were still at an inflation-beating 5% in the year to August 2017, according to official ONS figures.
Brexit talks are under way They finally, officially, started on 19 June, 2017.
Here's a picture from that first session: Image copyright Reuters The UK and EU negotiating teams meet face-to-face for one week each month.
Their first tasks are trying to get an agreement on the rights of UK and EU citizens after Brexit, reaching a figure for the amount of money the UK will need to pay on leaving, the so-called "divorce bill", and what happens to the Northern Ireland border.
You can find out more about the talks here.
What is the European Union?
The European Union - often known as the EU - is an economic and political partnership involving 28 European countries (click here if you want to see the full list).
It began after World War Two to foster economic co-operation, with the idea that countries which trade together are more likely to avoid going to war with each other.
It has since grown to become a "single market" allowing goods and people to move around, basically as if the member states were one country.
It has its own currency, the euro, which is used by 19 of the member countries, its own parliament and it now sets rules in a wide range of areas - including on the environment, transport, consumer rights and even things such as mobile phone charges.
Click here for a beginners' guide to how the EU works.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How does the European Union work?
What is Article 50?
Article 50 is a plan for any country that wishes to exit the EU.
It was created as part of the Treaty of Lisbon - an agreement signed up to by all EU states which became law in 2009.
Before that treaty, there was no formal mechanism for a country to leave the EU.
It's pretty short - just five paragraphs - which spell out that any EU member state may decide to quit the EU, that it must notify the European Council and negotiate its withdrawal with the EU, that there are two years to reach an agreement - unless everyone agrees to extend it - and that the exiting state cannot take part in EU internal discussions about its departure.
What date will the UK will leave the EU?
For the UK to leave the EU it had to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty which gives the two sides two years to agree the terms of the split.
Theresa May triggered this process on 29 March, meaning the UK is scheduled to leave on Friday, 29 March 2019.
It can be extended if all 28 EU members agree, but at the moment all sides are focusing on that date as being the key one.
What's going to happen to all the EU laws in force in the UK?
The Conservative government has introduced the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill to Parliament.
If passed, it will end the primacy of EU law in the UK.
This "Great Repeal Bill" as it has been called, is supposed to incorporate all EU legislation into UK law in one lump, after which the government will decide over a period of time which parts to keep, change or remove.
The government is facing claims from Remain supporting MPs that it is giving itself sweeping powers to change legislation without proper Parliamentary scrutiny.
Read a full guide to the bill.
What is the Labour Party's position on Brexit?
Labour's position on Brexit was tweaked in mid-August, when the shadow Brexit secretary, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that the party now wanted to keep the UK in the single market and a customs union during a transition that could last for up to four years.
Labour would also accept free movement of people, payments into the EU budget and the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice during the transition.
This is a considerably "softer" version of Brexit than the one advocated by the government, but there are still divisions within the party about whether the UK should try to stay in the single market in the longer term.
What do 'soft' and 'hard' Brexit mean?
These terms have increasingly been used as debate focused on the terms of the UK's departure from the EU.
There is no strict definition of either, but they are used to refer to the closeness of the UK's relationship with the EU post-Brexit.
So at one extreme, "hard" Brexit could involve the UK refusing to compromise on issues like the free movement of people even if meant leaving the single market.
At the other end of the scale, a "soft" Brexit might follow a similar path to Norway, which is a member of the single market and has to accept the free movement of people as a result of that.
What is the single market?
The single market is seen by its advocates as the EU's biggest achievement and one of the main reasons it was set up in the first place.
Britain was a member of a free trade area in Europe before it joined what was then known as the common market.
In a free trade area countries can trade with each other without paying tariffs - but it is not a single market because the member states do not have to merge their economies together.
The European Union single market, which was completed in 1992, allows the free movement of goods, services, money and people within the European Union, as if it was a single country.
It is possible to set up a business or take a job anywhere within it.
The idea was to boost trade, create jobs and lower prices.
But it requires common law-making to ensure products are made to the same technical standards and imposes other rules to ensure a "level playing field".
Critics say it generates too many petty regulations and robs members of control over their own affairs.
Mass migration from poorer to richer countries has also raised questions about the free movement rule.
Theresa May has ruled out the UK staying in the single market.
Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has said continued membership of the single has to be an option in negotiations with Brussels.
Read more: A free trade area v EU single market What's the difference between the single market and the customs union?
The customs union ensures EU member states all charge the same import duties to countries outside the EU.
It allows member states to trade freely with each other, without burdensome customs checks at borders, but it limits their freedom to strike their own trade deals.
It is different from a free trade area.
In a free trade area no tariffs, taxes or quotas are charged on goods and services moving within the area but members are free to strike their own external trade deals.
The single market is a very different beast - it is not just about the trade in goods.
It allows the free movement of people, money and services as if the EU was a single country.
Who is negotiating Britain's exit from the EU?
Theresa May set up a government department, headed by veteran Conservative MP and Leave campaigner David Davis, to take responsibility for Brexit.
Former defence secretary, Liam Fox, who also campaigned to leave the EU, was given the new job of international trade secretary and Boris Johnson, who was a leader of the official Leave campaign, is foreign secretary.
These three are each set to play roles in negotiations with the EU and seek out new international agreements, although it would be Mrs May, as prime minister, who would have the final say.
Who's who guide to both sides' negotiators.
How long will it take for Britain to leave the EU?
The Article 50 process lasts two years so the intention is for the UK to leave the EU on 29 March 2019.
EU law still stands in the UK until it ceases being a member.
But there is currently uncertainty about how final the break will be on that day - a number of UK and EU figures back the idea of having a "transition" period of up to three years to allow a smooth implementation of whatever Brexit deal is negotiated and minimise disruption to businesses and holidaymakers etc.
Why might Brexit take so long?
Unpicking 43 years of treaties and agreements covering thousands of different subjects was never going to be a straightforward task.
It is further complicated by the fact that it has never been done before and negotiators will, to some extent, be making it up as they go along.
The post-Brexit trade deal is likely to be the most complex part of the negotiation because it needs the unanimous approval of more than 30 national and regional parliaments across Europe, some of whom may want to hold referendums.
So why can't the UK just cut all ties in March 2019?
The UK could cut all ties, but Theresa May and others would like to avoid such a "cliff-edge" where current regulations on things like cross-border trade and travel between the UK and the EU ends overnight.
They think it would harm the economy.
What is the focus of negotiations between the UK and EU?
The priority issues in negotiations are: 1) Agreeing what rights EU citizens already in the UK - and UK citizens living in the rest of the EU - will have after Brexit.
2) Agreeing a figure for the amount of money the UK has to pay the rest of the EU "to settle its accounts", when it leaves.
3) Working out what will happen on the border between Northern Ireland, when it is outside the EU, and the Republic of Ireland, which is part of the EU.
The EU says it wants to make decent progress on these three issues before beginning talks about what the UK's relations with the EU will be like after Brexit.
Mrs May set out her negotiating priorities in the letter officially triggering the process of leaving the EU on 29 March.
Here's a guide to the key points.
How are the talks going?
There have been agreements on some technical points, but the chief EU negotiator, Michel Barnier, has said there had been no decisive progress on any of the main issues.
The UK's Brexit Secretary, David Davis, insists progress has been made.
The main sticking point at the moment is money - and the size of the bill the UK will pay to cover its outstanding obligations when it leaves.
The UK wants this to be as low as possible.
All the other countries in the EU want it to be as high as possible.
Because when the UK leaves, there will be a hole in the EU budget and they will have to cover the shortfall.
The UK government has published a series of papers setting out its position on issues such as future customs arrangements, and on the border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
Government policy is now that the UK will leave the single market and the customs union on the day of Brexit, but that it will try to replicate existing customs arrangements during a time-limited transition period.
What happens if there is no deal with the EU?
Prime Minister Theresa May says leaving the EU with no deal whatsoever would be better than signing the UK up to a bad one.
Without an agreement on trade, the UK would have to operate under World Trade Organisation rules, which could mean customs checks and tariffs on goods as well as longer border check for travellers.
There are also questions about what would happen to Britain's position as global financial centre and the land border between the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
There is also concern that Brits living abroad in the EU could lose residency rights and access to free emergency health care.
Here is a full explanation of what 'no deal' could mean What happens to EU citizens living in the UK?
It has yet to be agreed.
All EU nationals lawfully resident in the UK for at least five years will be able to apply for "settled status" and be able to bring over spouses and children, under a 15-page proposal unveiled by Theresa May.
Mrs May says she wants to give reassurance and certainty to the 3.2 million EU citizens in the UK - as well as citizens of the three EEA countries and Switzerland.
But any deal on their future legal status and rights must be reciprocal and also give certainty to the 1.2 million British expats living on the continent after the UK leaves the EU - expected to be on 29 March 2019, she says.
Michel Barnier, who is leading the Brexit negotiations for the EU, said the UK's proposals did not go far enough and he wanted the same level of protection citizens currently have under EU law.
He has demanded more clarity and ambition from the UK government.
The key points of the UK's proposals are: Those granted settled status will be able to live, work, study and claim benefits just as they can now The cut-off date for eligibility is undecided but will be between 29 March 2017 and 29 March 2019 Family members of EU citizens living abroad will be able to return and apply for settled status EU nationals in the UK for less than five years at the specified date will be able to continue living and working in the UK Once resident for five years, they can apply for settled status Those arriving after the cut-off point will be able to stay temporarily But there should be "no expectation" they will be granted permanent residence A period of "blanket residence permission" may apply to give officials time to process applications to stay in the UK The Home Office will no longer require evidence that EU citizens who weren't working held "comprehensive sickness insurance" Labour has said it would guarantee the rights of of EU citizens living in the UK to stay there on "day one" of a Labour government.
EU nationals with a right to permanent residence, which is granted after they have lived in the UK for five years, should not see their rights affected after Brexit.
What happens to UK citizens working in the EU?
A lot depends on the kind of deal the UK agrees with the EU.
If the government opted to impose work permit restrictions on EU nationals, then other countries could reciprocate, meaning Britons would have to apply for visas to work.
What about EU nationals who want to work in the UK Any EU citizen already living and working in the UK will be able to carry on working and living in the UK after Brexit.
The current plan is that even after Brexit, people from the EU will be able to move to work in the UK during a "transition" phase of up to three years.
However they will have to register.
A permanent proposal for post-Brexit immigration is not likely to be known for a few months yet, although it is widely expected that there will be a work permit system along the lines of that for non-EU nationals.
What does the fall in the value of the pound mean for prices in the shops?
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Shoppers will need to keep a close eye on how much they are spending People travelling overseas from the UK have found their pounds are buying fewer euros or dollars after the Brexit vote.
Even if the pound regains some of its value, currency experts expect it in the longer term to remain at least 10% below where it was when the referendum happened.
This means exports should get a boost as UK goods will be cheaper, but imported goods will get more expensive - some price rises for food, clothing and homeware goods have been seen.
The latest UK inflation figures have the rate at 2.6%, above the target level, but not out of kilter with recent years.
Will immigration be cut?
Image copyright PA Prime Minister Theresa May has said one of the main messages she has taken from the Leave vote is that the British people want to see a reduction in immigration.
She has said this will be a focus of Brexit negotiations as she remains committed to getting net migration - the difference between the numbers entering and leaving the country - down to a "sustainable" level, which she defines as being below 100,000 a year.
The rate of increase in the size of Britain's population has slowed significantly since the Brexit vote.
This has largely been driven by an increase in emigration from the UK by citizens of Poland and the other East and Central European countries.
There were still 246,000 more people coming to live in the UK than leaving in the year to March 2017, according to the latest estimates - some way above the government's target of 100,000.
Could there be a second referendum?
It seems highly unlikely.
Both the Conservatives and the Labour Party have ruled out another referendum, arguing that it would be an undemocratic breach of trust with the British people who clearly voted to Leave.
Will MPs get a vote on the Brexit deal?
Yes.
Theresa May has promised there will be a Commons and Lords vote to approve whatever deal the UK and the rest of the EU agree at the end of the two year process.
This vote is currently proposed as a "take it or leave it" one.
Labour wants the vote to have the option of sending the UK team back to renegotiate.
It is worth mentioning that any deal also has to be agreed by the European Parliament - with British MEPs getting a chance to vote on it there.
Will I need a visa to travel to the EU?
The UK government wants to keep visa-free travel to the UK for EU visitors after Brexit and it is hoping this will be reciprocated, meaning UK citizens will continue to be able to visit EU countries for short periods without seeking official permission to travel.
If visitors from EU countries wanted to work, study or settle in the UK they would have to apply for permission under the proposals.
No agreement has been reached yet, however.
If it is decided that EU citizens will need visas to come to the UK in the future, then UK citizens will need visas to travel to the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Will I still be able to use my passport?
Yes.
It is a British document - there is no such thing as an EU passport, so your passport will stay the same.
In theory, the government could, if it wanted, decide to change the colour, which is currently standardised for EU countries, says the BBC's Europe correspondent, Chris Morris.
Has any other member state ever left the EU?
No nation state has ever left the EU.
But Greenland, one of Denmark's overseas territories, held a referendum in 1982, after gaining a greater degree of self government, and voted by 52% to 48% to leave, which it duly did after a period of negotiation.
The BBC's Carolyn Quinn visited Greenland to find out how they did it.
What does this mean for Scotland?
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Nicola Sturgeon says a new independence referendum in Scotland is likely Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said in the wake of the Leave result that it was "democratically unacceptable" that Scotland faced being taken out of the EU when it voted to Remain.
Ms Sturgeon has officially asked for permission for a second referendum to be held.
She had wanted the vote to be held between the autumn of 2018 and spring 2019, but after losing seats at the 2017 general election she has put her plans on hold with no referendum likely until 2021.
Theresa May has said a second referendum should not be held during the Brexit process.
What does it mean for Northern Ireland?
The land border between Northern Ireland and EU member the Republic of Ireland is a key part of the Brexit talks.
There is currently a common travel area between the UK and the Republic.
Like Scotland, Northern Ireland voted to remain in the EU in last year's referendum.
The result in Northern Ireland was 56% for Remain and 44% for Leave.
The UK government has published a paper setting out its vision for a post-Brexit border.
It wants to avoid returning to a "hard border" - that means no physical infrastructure, such as customs posts.
There would be no CCTV cameras or number plate recognition technology at the border, or set back from it.
Instead, the UK government is arguing for a wide-ranging exemption under which small and medium-sized businesses will not have to comply with any new customs tariffs.
If the proposals are accepted, customs officials envisage using a mix of technology and physical checks to monitor the compliance of bigger businesses engaged in international trade.
Critics say the proposals lack credible detail, with Labour deriding the plans for the border as "a fantasy frontier".
Sinn Fein, which was part of the ruling coalition in the Northern Ireland Assembly before it was suspended, has called for a referendum on leaving the UK and joining the Republic of Ireland as soon as possible.
The Conservatives have rejected Sinn Fein's call, saying there was no evidence opinion had shifted in favour of a united Ireland.
How much has Brexit cost so far and how much will it cost by the end?
There is much debate about the long-term costs and benefits to the UK economy of Brexit - but what we do know for certain is that the EU wants the UK to settle any outstanding bills before it leaves.
There have been no official estimates published of the size of the bill, which covers things like pension payments to EU officials, the cost of relocating London-based EU agencies and outstanding EU budget commitments.
Various figures ranging from 50bn (44bn) to 100bn (88bn) euros have been bandied about but although the UK has agreed to meet its financial obligations, Brexit secretary David Davis has said: "We will not be paying 100bn."
The UK could leave without any Brexit "divorce bill" deal but that would probably mean everyone ending up in court.
If compromise can be achieved, and if payment of the bill were to be spread over many years, the amounts involved may not be that significant economically.
How will pensions, savings, investments and mortgages be affected?
During the referendum campaign, David Cameron said the so-called "triple lock" for state pensions would be threatened by a UK exit.
This is the agreement by which pensions increase by at least the level of earnings, inflation or 2.5% every year - whichever is the highest.
Theresa May had proposed ditching the 2.5% part of the lock in the party's election manifesto, but as part of the post-election deal with the DUP the triple lock was again guaranteed.
There was an early post-referendum cut in interest rates, which has helped keep mortgage and other borrowing rates low.
There are few signs yet that rising inflation have worried the Bank of England enough to consider raising interest rates.
But if that happened it would make mortgages and loans more expensive to repay - but would be good news for savers.
Will duty-free sales on Europe journeys return?
Image copyright Thinkstock Journalists and writers on social media have greeted the reintroduction of duty-free sales as an "upside" or "silver lining" of Brexit.
As with most Brexit consequences, whether this will happen depends on how negotiations with the EU play out - whether the "customs union" agreement between Britain and the EU is ended or continued.
Will EHIC cards still be valid?
Image copyright Thinkstock If you are already living in another EU country on the day the UK leaves the bloc, your EHIC card - which entitles travellers to state-provided medical help for any condition or injury that requires urgent treatment, in any other country within the EU, as well as several non-EU countries - will continue to work.
After that date, for EU citizens wishing to travel to the UK or UK citizens wishing to travel to the EU, it is unclear about what will happen because no deal has yet been reached.
Read more here.
Will cars need new number plates?
Probably not, says BBC Europe correspondent Chris Morris, because there's no EU-wide law on vehicle registration or car number places, and the EU flag symbol is a voluntary identifier and not compulsory.
The DVLA says there has been no discussion about what would happen to plates with the flag if the UK voted to leave.
Could MPs block an EU exit?
Could the necessary legislation pass the Commons, given that a lot of MPs in the current Parliament - all SNP and Lib Dems, nearly all Labour and many Conservatives - were in favour of staying?
The referendum result is not legally binding - Parliament still has to pass the laws that will get Britain out of the 28 nation bloc, starting with the repeal of the 1972 European Communities Act.
The withdrawal agreement also has to be ratified by Parliament - the House of Lords and/or the Commons could vote against ratification, according to a House of Commons library report.
So in theory they could block the UK's EU exit.
But in practice that is seen as very unlikely given that a majority of people voted for Brexit in the referendum.
Will leaving the EU mean we don't have to abide by the European Court of Human Rights?
The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is not a European Union institution.
It was set up by the Council of Europe, which has 47 members including Russia and Ukraine.
So quitting the EU will not exempt the UK from its decisions.
The Conservatives are committed to sticking with the Human Rights Act which requires UK courts to treat the ECHR as setting legal precedents for the UK during the Brexit process.
There have been longstanding plans to repeal the act and replace it with a British Bill of Rights.
What about the European Court of Justice?
The Court of Justice of the European Union - to give it its full name - is the EU's highest legal authority.
It is based in Luxembourg.
It is an entirely different thing to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).
It is the ECHR not the ECJ that has often upset British politicians by making it harder, for example, to deport terrorist suspects.
The ECJ interprets and enforces the rules of the single market, settling disputes between member countries over issues like free movement and trade.
It is at the centre of pretty much everything the EU does.
Prime Minister Theresa May has vowed that Britain will not be under the "direct" jurisdiction of the ECJ after Brexit.
But the UK government has not ruled out remaining under its jurisdiction during the Brexit transition period that is planned after March 2019.
After that, there will need to be a new mechanism for settling disputes between the UK and the EU but what form that take has yet to be decided.
There has been talk of an ombudsman, or some other third party, being appointed to settle disagreements.
The UK has set out some ideas in a position paper, which was criticised for being too "vague".
The EU is insisting that its citizens in the UK should continue to enjoy the legal protection of the ECJ even after Brexit, guaranteeing their right to work and access to benefits among other things.
This is a major sticking point in the negotiations, with the UK saying EU citizens living in the UK should be subject to British law only.
Will the UK be able to rejoin the EU in the future?
BBC Europe editor Katya Adler says the UK would have to start from scratch with no rebate, and enter accession talks with the EU.
Every member state would have to agree to the UK re-joining.
But she says with elections looming elsewhere in Europe, other leaders might not be generous towards any UK demands.
New members are required to adopt the euro as their currency, once they meet the relevant criteria, although the UK could try to negotiate an opt-out.
Who wanted the UK to leave the EU?
The UK Independence Party, which received nearly four million votes - 13% of those cast - in the 2015 general election, but who saw their vote collapse to about a quarter of that at this year's election, has campaigned for many years for Britain's exit from the EU.
They were joined in their call during the referendum campaign by about half the Conservative Party's MPs, including Boris Johnson and five members of the then Cabinet.
A handful of Labour MPs and Northern Ireland party the DUP were also in favour of leaving.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to leave?
They said Britain was being held back by the EU, which they said imposed too many rules on business and charged billions of pounds a year in membership fees for little in return.
They also wanted the UK to make all of its own laws again, rather than being created through shared decision making with other EU nations.
Immigration was also a big issue for Brexit supporters, They wanted Britain to take back full control of its borders and reduce the number of people coming here to live and/or work.
One of the main principles of EU membership is "free movement", which means you don't need to get a visa to go and live in another EU country.
The Leave campaign also objected to the idea of "ever closer union" between EU member states and what they see as moves towards the creation of a "United States of Europe".
Who wanted the UK to stay in the EU?
Then Prime Minister David Cameron was the leading voice in the Remain campaign, after reaching an agreement with other European Union leaders that would have changed the terms of Britain's membership had the country voted to stay in.
He said the deal would give Britain "special" status and help sort out some of the things British people said they didn't like about the EU, like high levels of immigration - but critics said the deal would make little difference.
Sixteen members of Mr Cameron's Cabinet, including the woman who would replace him as PM, Theresa May, also backed staying in.
The Conservative Party was split on the issue and officially remained neutral in the campaign.
The Labour Party, Scottish National Party, Plaid Cymru, the Green Party and the Liberal Democrats were all in favour of staying in.
The then US president Barack Obama also wanted Britain to remain in the EU, as did the leaders of other EU nations such as France and Germany.
What were their reasons for wanting the UK to stay?
Those campaigning for Britain to stay in the EU said it got a big boost from membership - it makes selling things to other EU countries easier and, they argued, the flow of immigrants, most of whom are young and keen to work, fuels economic growth and helps pay for public services.
They also said Britain's status in the world would be damaged by leaving and that we are more secure as part of the 28 nation club, rather than going it alone.
What about businesses?
Big business - with a few exceptions - tended to be in favour of Britain staying in the EU because it makes it easier for them to move money, people and products around the world.
Given the crucial role of London as a financial centre, there's interest in how many jobs may be lost to other hubs in the EU.
Some UK exporters say they've had increased orders or enquiries because of the fall in the value of the pound.
Others are less optimistic, fearing products for the European market may have to be made at plants in the EU.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Boris Johnson was one of the most prominent Leave campaigners Who led the rival sides in the campaign?
Britain Stronger in Europe - the main cross-party group campaigning for Britain to remain in the EU was headed by former Marks and Spencer chairman Lord Rose.
It was backed by key figures from the Conservative Party, including Prime Minister David Cameron and Chancellor George Osborne, most Labour MPs, including party leader Jeremy Corbyn and Alan Johnson, who ran the Labour In for Britain campaign, the Lib Dems, Plaid Cymru, the Alliance party and the SDLP in Northern Ireland, and the Green Party.
Who funded the campaign: Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to remain : The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Britain Stronger in Europe raised 6.88m, boosted by two donations totalling 2.3m from the supermarket magnate and Labour peer Lord Sainsbury.
Other prominent Remain donors included hedge fund manager David Harding (750,000), businessman and Travelex founder Lloyd Dorfman (500,000) and the Tower Limited Partnership (500,000).
Read a Who's Who guide.
: The SNP ran its own remain campaign in Scotland as it did not want to share a platform with the Conservatives.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Vote Leave - A cross-party campaign that has the backing of senior Conservatives such as Michael Gove and Boris Johnson plus a handful of Labour MPs, including Gisela Stuart and Graham Stringer, and UKIP's Douglas Carswell and Suzanne Evans, and the DUP in Northern Ireland.
Former Tory chancellor Lord Lawson and SDP founder Lord Owen were also involved.
It had a string of affiliated groups such as Farmers for Britain, Muslims for Britain and Out and Proud, a gay anti-EU group, aimed at building support in different communities.
Who funded the campaign: Vote Leave raised 2.78m.
Its largest supporter was businessman Patrick Barbour, who gave 500,000.
Former Conservative Party treasurer Peter Cruddas gave a 350,000 donation and construction mogul Terence Adams handed over 300,000.
Read a Who's Who guide.
Who else campaigned to leave: UKIP leader Nigel Farage was not part of Vote Leave.
His party ran its own campaign.
The Trade Union and Socialist Coalition also ran its own out campaign.
Several smaller groups also registered to campaign.
Will the EU still use English?
Yes, says BBC Europe editor Katya Adler.
There will still be 27 other EU states in the bloc, and others wanting to join in the future, and the common language tends to be English - "much to France's chagrin", she says.
Will Brexit harm product safety?
Probably not, is the answer.
It would depend on whether or not the UK decided to get rid of current safety standards.
Even if that happened any company wanting to export to the EU would have to comply with its safety rules, and it's hard to imagine a company would want to produce two batches of the same products.
Here are a selection of questions sent in - you can ask yours via the form at the end of this page Which MPs were for staying and which for leaving?
The good news for Edward, from Cambridge, who asked this question, is we have been working on exactly such a list.
Click here for the latest version.
How much does the UK contribute to the EU and how much do we get in return?
In answer to this query from Nancy from Hornchurch - the UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out.
Only France and Germany contribute more.
In 2014/15, Poland was the largest beneficiary, followed by Hungary and Greece.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The UK is one of 10 member states who pay more into the EU budget than they get out The UK also gets an annual rebate that was negotiated by Margaret Thatcher and money back, in the form of regional development grants and payments to farmers, which added up to 4.6bn in 2014/15.
According to the latest Treasury figures, the UK's net contribution for 2014/15 was 8.8bn - nearly double what it was in 2009/10.
The National Audit Office, using a different formula which takes into account EU money paid directly to private sector companies and universities to fund research, and measured over the EU's financial year, shows the UK's net contribution for 2014 was 5.7bn.
Read more number crunching from Reality Check.
If I retire to Spain or another EU country will my healthcare costs still be covered?
David, from East Sussex, is worried about what will happen to his retirement plans.
This is one of those issues where it is not possible to say definitively what would happen.
At the moment, the large British expat community in Spain gets free access to Spanish GPs and their hospital treatment is paid for by the NHS.
After they become permanent residents Spain pays for their hospital treatment.
In some other EU countries such as France expats of working age are expected to pay the same healthcare costs as locals but once they reach retirement age their medical bills are paid by the NHS.
If Britain remains in the single market, or the European Economic Area as it is known, it might be able to continue with this arrangement, according to a House of Commons library research note.
If Britain has to negotiate trade deals with individual member states, it may opt to continue paying for expats' healthcare through the NHS or decide that they would have to cover their own costs if they continue to live abroad, if the country where they live declines to do so.
What will happen to protected species?
Dee, from Launceston, wanted to know what would happen to EU laws covering protected species such as bats in the event of Britain leaving the EU.
The answer is that they would remain in place, initially at least.
After the Leave vote, the government will probably review all EU-derived laws in the two years leading up to the official exit date to see which ones to keep or scrap.
The status of Special Areas of Conservation and Special Protection Areas, which are designated by the EU, would be reviewed to see what alternative protections could be applied.
The same process would apply to European Protected Species legislation, which relate to bats and their habitats.
The government would want to avoid a legislative vacuum caused by the repeal of EU laws before new UK laws are in place - it would also continue to abide by other international agreements covering environmental protection.
How much money will the UK save through changes to migrant child benefits and welfare payments?
Martin, from Poole, in Dorset, wanted to know what taxpayers would have got back from the benefit curbs negotiated by David Cameron in Brussels.
We don't exactly know because the details were never worked out.
HM Revenue and Customs suggested about 20,000 EU nationals receive child benefit payments in respect of 34,000 children in their country of origin at an estimated cost of about 30m.
But the total saving would have been significantly less than that because Mr Cameron did not get the blanket ban he wanted.
Instead, payments would have been linked to the cost of living in the countries where the children live.
David Cameron said as many as 40% of EU migrant families who come to Britain could lose an average of 6,000 a year of in-work benefits when his "emergency brake" was applied.
The DWP estimated between 128,700 and 155,100 people would be affected.
But the cuts would have been phased in.
New arrivals would not have got tax credits and other in-work benefits straight away but would have gradually gained access to them over a four year period at a rate that had not been decided.
The plan will never be implemented now.
Will we be barred from the Eurovision Song Contest?
Image copyright BBC/Guy Levy Image caption To participate in the Eurovision Song Contest countries need to be a member of the European Broadcasting Union, which is independent of the EU Sophie from Peterborough, who asks the question, need not worry.
We have consulted Alasdair Rendall, president of the UK Eurovision fan club, who says: "All participating countries must be a member of the European Broadcasting Union.
The EBU - which is totally independent of the EU - includes countries both inside and outside of the EU, and also includes countries such as Israel that are outside of Europe.
Indeed the UK started participating in the Eurovision Song Contest in 1957, 16 years before joining the then EEC."
What will happen to pet passports?
The answer to Alan Rippington's question, the European Commission says, is that pet passports will, like everything else, form part of the negotiations.
The UK introduced the pet passport scheme in 2000, replacing the previous quarantine laws.
It means you and your dog, cat or ferret can travel between the UK and the EU (and other participating countries) as long as it has a passport, a microchip and has been vaccinated against rabies.
Of course, until the UK actually leaves the EU, the scheme continues as normal.
The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said: "The UK has a long history of world-leading animal welfare and biosecurity standards, which we are committed to safeguarding and improving, securing the best deal for Britain as we leave the EU."
Has Brexit made house prices fall?
Image copyright PA So far, the answer is no.
But there has been anecdotal evidence of house prices falling at the top of the market in Central London and the annual increase in the price of property has fallen from 9.4% at the time of the referendum to 4.9% a year later.
What is the 'red tape' that opponents of the EU complain about?
Ged, from Liverpool, suspects "red tape" is a euphemism for employment rights and environmental protection.
According to the Open Europe think tank, four of the top five most costly EU regulations are either employment or environment-related.
The UK renewable energy strategy, which the think-tank says costs 4.7bn a year, tops the list.
The working time directive (4.2bn a year) - which limits the working week to 48 hours - and the temporary agency workers directive (2.1bn a year), giving temporary staff many of the same rights as permanent ones - are also on the list.
Most of the EU-derived laws on the UK's statute books will be copied across into UK law so that businesses can continue to function on the day Britain leaves the EU, in March 2019.
Future governments will then be able to amend or scrap them.
Brexit may also generate "red tape" of its own - if the UK leaves the single market and the customs union, businesses could face more paperwork as they cross borders into EU countries.
Will Britain be party to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership?
Ste, in Bolton, asked about this.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership - or TTIP - currently under negotiation between the EU and United States would create the biggest free trade area the world has ever seen.
Cheerleaders for TTIP, including former PM David Cameron, believed it could make American imports cheaper and boost British exports to the US to the tune of 10bn a year.
But many on the left, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, fear it will shift more power to multinational corporations, undermine public services, wreck food standards and threaten basic rights.
US President Donald Trump is not a fan of the TTIP agreement, which means it is now seen as unlikely to be agreed - but whatever happens, when the UK quits the EU it will not be part of TTIP and will have to negotiate its own trade deal with the US.
What impact will leaving the EU have on the NHS?
Paddy, from Widnes, wanted to know how leaving the EU will affect the number of doctors we have and impact the NHS.
This became an issue in the referendum debate after the Leave campaign claimed the money Britain sends to the EU, which it claimed was 350m a week, could be spent on the NHS instead.
The BBC's Reality Check team looked into this claim.
Before the vote Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt warned that leaving the EU would lead to budget cuts and an exodus of overseas doctors and nurses.
The Leave campaign dismissed his intervention as "scaremongering" and insisted that EU membership fees could be spent on domestic services like the NHS.
Since the referendum spending on the NHS has continued at the same level as planned.
EU citizens working for the NHS are expected to get the right to stay in the UK, although details on EU citizens in the UK and UK citizens elsewhere in the EU are yet to be finalised (see earlier answer).
Sally Miller bought a house in Spain nine years ago and plans to retire there in the next five years.
She asked how Brexit will affect this.
Image copyright Getty Images The BBC's Kevin Connolly says: The issue of free movement - the rights of EU citizens to live and work in the UK - was a huge issue in the Brexit referendum of course, and will be a big part of the exit negotiations.
We've heard quite a bit from the British side already with the government saying that securing the status and rights of EU nationals in the UK and UK nationals in the EU is one of the government's earliest priorities, and specifically that it is looking for a reciprocal deal.
So you might feel the mood music is encouraging but all we can say for sure is that, while there are no guarantees yet, it will be a big part of the Brexit negotiations to come.
Jonathan Eaton is a Briton living in the Netherlands with his wife, who is Dutch.
He asks what rights to benefits and housing he will have if he has to return to the UK.
Image copyright Getty Images BBC assistant political editor Norman Smith says: The short answer is there is no easy access to benefits.
As it stands at the moment, Brexit aside, you will have to pass what's known as a habitual residence test which was introduced in 1994 and applies to British citizens just as EU citizens.
The rules have been tightened up which means for some benefits, if you have been out of the country you can't even think about applying for the test for several months.
For example, when it comes to jobseeker's allowance, you cannot even take the test to apply for those benefits for three months.
And that was done to stop EU citizens coming here and just getting on benefits straight away.
After three months, you can take the test which looks at your English language skills, what sort of efforts you made to find work before coming to the UK.
It also considers how strong a tie you have to the UK, whether you have property or family here and what your intentions are in terms of staying and working, or returning.
But once you have taken the test, if you pass it then you should be eligible to apply for a range of benefits, as long as you meet the usual requirements in terms of income and showing you are looking for work.
That is likely to continue when we move fully on to Universal Credit.
The one sort of unknown in the whole system is what happens with Brexit negotiations, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of British nationals abroad.
And we simply don't know what that will involve and whether in any way that might impact on how soon you can apply for benefits when you come back to Britain.
Will I have to buy a new passport and driving licence, and will my rights to use them freely across Europe be taken away from me after Brexit, asks Francis Lee.
Image copyright Getty Images Kevin Connolly says: At the moment UK passports carry the words European Union and British driving licences have the blue square with yellow flags of the EU.
That will presumably change after Brexit but it seems likely that the change will be phased in so that you'll simply get documents with the new design when the old ones expire.
That's what happened, I seem to remember, when the UK joined the EU.
Anything else would be expensive and risk flooding the system, after all.
The right to use them freely is an interesting question.
When we talk about restrictions on freedom of movement we generally mean the freedom to live and work in another country.
If Britain poses restrictions on the EU in that respect then it can expect some kind of response.
But in terms of tourism there are plenty of non-EU countries whose citizens can visit the UK for up to 90 days without a visa.
And, as part of the Brexit negotiations, you'd expect similar arrangements to be discussed for the UK.
Both sides need each others' tourists and, after all, if you can drive a car in the United States on a UK licence then it doesn't seem fanciful to assume that you'll be able to do the same in Europe in future.
It is very clear that the PM and the government want to leave the tyranny of the European Court of Justice.
Why has leaving the European Court of Human Rights (an organisation far more hated than the ECJ) been ignored, asks Barry Fryer.
Image copyright Getty Images Kevin Connolly says: Two different courts here of course, so two different bits of politics.
Crucially, the European Court of Human Rights is not an EU institution and that's why discussions about leaving it have not formed a key part of the Brexit debate.
The European Court of Justice - the ECJ - is one of the primary institutions of the European Union and administers EU law.
So, while it might have a role in supervising a future trade deal, part of the goal of Brexit was to remove the UK from the ECJ's jurisdiction.
The European Court of Human Rights which, as Barry points out, can be even more controversial, is a body set up not by the EU but by member states of the Council of Europe, a separate institution which contains countries that aren't EU members.
It's this court which has produced rulings which have been controversial in the UK, including blocking the extradition of Abu Qatada and establishing the right of serving prisoners to vote in elections - and leaving the EU won't change anything here.
Adrian Wallis runs a small electronics company and wants to know about export tariffs after Brexit, and what they'd mean for his business.
Kevin Connolly says: As long as Britain has been in the EU we haven't really talked much about tariffs.
That's because all trade within the European Economic Area is tariff-free.
On top of that the EU has trade agreements with 52 other countries as well.
After Brexit, Britain is going to have to negotiate new deals all on its own.
That's both a problem and an opportunity.
For example you can use tariffs against foreign imports to protect businesses you care about, as the EU does with agricultural produce, but you do then run the risk of retaliation from your trading partners.
The key body in all of this is the World Trade Organisation and at the moment the UK is only a member via its membership of the EU.
Image copyright Thinkstock One bit of good news is that the UK will automatically become a member in its own right as soon as it leaves the EU.
That matters because in the period when the UK is negotiating a new trade deal with the EU, and that could take years, trade would be conducted under WTO rules.
At the moment, for non-food items, that implies an average tariff of about 2.3%.
But suppose the EU were to impose a 10% tariff on UK car imports, for example.
Well, then the UK could impose the same tariff on German and French cars.
In theory, an economist would say that creates a situation where everyone has an incentive to sort out a better deal for their consumers.
The snag is that these things take years, if not decades.
They tend to be done on a country-by-country and sector-by-sector basis.
So if Adrian is waiting to find out the implications for his business, then I'm afraid he's going to have to be patient.
Maybe very, very patient.
What impact will leaving the European Union have on the UK's long term political influence in Europe, asks Peter Hoare.
Norman Smith says: There are basically two views on what will happen in terms of clout when outside the EU.
View one is that the UK projects power and influence in the world, working through organisations such as the EU and that on our own it'll be a much diminished force.
View two is that unencumbered by the other 27 members, the UK can get on with things and start adopting a much more independent, self-confident, assertive role on the world stage.
My take is that not much is probably going to change.
I say that because the UK'll still be a member of significant organisations such as the UN and Nato, and will still be co-operating with EU partners.
For example, there will still be close ties on defence with the French.
The UK will still be the same old Britain, will still have significant military force, will still be a wealthy country and will still be a nuclear power, so I don't think people will suddenly think the UK's an entirely different country.
Are other countries likely to leave the EU and if so could we start a new free trade area, asks David John.
Kevin Connolly says: Funnily enough, I was discussing this question just the other day with a French politician, a conservative and a real Europhile, and he said he thought if there was a free vote in France tomorrow, as the right wing National Front would like, that the French would vote to leave.
But generally speaking I can't see much prospect of a tidal wave of insurrectionist, exitism sweeping the continent.
When a country like Ireland has a spat with the EU about tax, for example, it does annoy Irish politicians, but most mainstream leaders in the Europe have grown up with the idea that the EU has brought peace and prosperity for decades.
Image copyright Getty Images Lots of them see plenty that irritates them about the European Union, but they mainly argue that the benefits hugely outweigh the irritations.
And in countries where you do find Euroscepticism, such as Poland and Hungary, there is also a healthy awareness that there are huge financial benefits to membership.
As for the future, we will see.
If the UK were to get a fantastic Brexit deal then maybe others would be tempted to go.
But the truth is, lots of European politicians want the EU to be tough with Britain precisely to stop other countries from following it through the door.
As to Britain forming its own free trade area, I think it seems an awfully long shot and on balance it is unlikely, not least because there are not that many free countries around available to recruit into another free trade area.
Britain could perhaps join the Free Trade Association along with Norway, Lichtenstein and Switzerland.
But of course it would be joining under existing rules, so the likeliest future for a post-Brexit UK, I think, is a future where it tries to do the best deal possible with the EU and then looks around for other free trade deals.
But that would fall short of creating a free trade area based on the UK itself.
What will happen to the borders in Gibraltar and Northern Ireland, asks Nigel May.
Kevin Connolly says: I think the question of what is going to happen to borders after Brexit is one of the most difficult of the lot.
Since 1985 when Spain joined the EU, it has basically been prevented from closing the border with Gibraltar as a way of applying pressure to the British territory.
In fact, 12,000 Spanish people cross into the territory to work every day and the area of Spain around Gibraltar is a pretty depressed area so they are important jobs.
On the other hand, the Spanish have talked openly about this being an opportunity to get Gibraltar back.
Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo, its minister of foreign affairs, said in September the UK's vote to leave the EU was "a unique historical opportunity in more than three hundred years to get Gibraltar back".
But at a minimum, as things stand, it looks to me as though they could certainly re-impose border controls if they chose to.
Image copyright Getty Images The situation with Ireland's border is more complex.
For those of us for whom Northern Ireland is home, the total disappearance of military check points on the border is one of the most tangible daily reminders of the end of the Troubles and no one wants a border like that back.
But, when the day comes when Ireland is in the EU and the UK is not, then the Irish border of course is also going to be the UK's land border with the European Union.
Conservative leader Theresa May has said we don't see a return to the borders of the past, but the reality is that if Britain leaves the common customs area, then presumably some sort of checks are going to be necessary on that border.
And if the UK wants to stop Polish or Romanian migrant workers using Dublin airport as a back door into the UK, then it is going to have to do something about that too.
The UK has published a paper setting out its preferred options.
Of course, what it will all mean for towns and villages like Belleek and Belcoo in County Fermanagh, which more or less straddle the border, is hard to imagine.
How will access to healthcare change for expats living in the EU, asks Veronique Bradley, who lives in Italy.
Kevin Connolly says: Healthcare is one of those issues that remains relatively simple as long as the UK remains in the EU.
It is just part of a range of citizens' rights that apply across the entire union.
After Brexit, I suppose there will be two possibilities.
The first and easiest would be that the negotiators come up with a reciprocal deal that keeps the current arrangements, or something a bit like them, in place.
If they don't, the situation will depend on the individual country where you live.
For the Bradleys in Italy, for example, residents from non-EU countries, and that will soon include the Brits, will have to finalise their residency status, acquire an Italian identity card and then apply for an Italian health insurance card.
If they visit the UK at the moment, access to the NHS for non-resident Brits is not straightforward unless you have a European health insurance card.
The right to treatment is based on residency, not on your tax status.
So, even if you live abroad and pay some British tax on a buy-to-let property for instance, you might find yourself getting a bill for any NHS treatment you end up getting while you are back in the UK.
What will happen to EU nationals who lived and worked in the UK and now receive a British state pension, asks Peter Barz, a German citizen living in the UK.
Norman Smith says: If you are an EU national and you get a British state pension, nothing much should change, because the state pension is dependent not on where you come from, but on how long you have paid National Insurance contributions in the UK.
So it doesn't matter whether you come from Lithuania or Latvia or Transylvania or Timbuktu, what counts is how much you have paid in terms of National Insurance contributions.
There is one wrinkle though and that is that you have to have paid in for at least 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images Under the current rules, if you are an EU citizen and haven't paid in for 10 years, you can point to any contributions you have made in your native country and say, "I paid in there", and that will count.
That works for EU countries and another 16 countries with which the UK has social security agreements.
Once we have left the EU, you will no longer be able to do that unless we negotiate new reciprocal agreements.
If we don't then potentially, if you have paid in fewer than than 10 years' worth of National Insurance contributions, you will not get a British state pension.
Is it possible to be both an EU citizen and not an EU citizen, asks Declan O'Neill, who holds an Irish passport.
Kevin Connolly says: I should probably declare some sort of interest here as a dual Irish and British national myself.
Of course, anyone born in Northern Ireland has an absolute right to carry both passports.
Declan might be happy to know that this is one of the few questions where I can't see a downside as long as you are happy and comfortable carrying both passports.
Image copyright Getty Images The Irish document means you continue to enjoy the benefits of EU citizenship, and the British passport will give you full rights in the UK at the same time.
Call it one of the clear joys of coming from Northern Ireland, alongside the rolling hills, rugged coastline and enjoyable breaks between the showers.
All you have to do is remember to carry the Irish passport when you are joining the EU citizens-only queue at the airport in future.
Is there a get-out clause for Article 50, asks Gillian Coates.
Norman Smith says: I think the honest answer is you would have to be a legal eagle to answer this.
But my take on it is that legally it looks like once we trigger Article 50 we are locked in, and that is certainly how the European Parliament reads it.
And there is a view that if we were in this two-year process after triggering Article 50 and we wanted to get out of it, then ultimately that would be a decision for the European Court of Justice.
Image copyright Thinkstock However, in the real world I think it is likely to be rather different, whatever the legal protocol.
I think the truth is, if we were trundling along and decided it was all going to be catastrophic and we have got to pull up the handbrake pretty sharpish, a lot of other EU countries would be probably be laughing at us, but I think at the same time they would probably be quite pleased we weren't going.
So I think the short answer is: legally, it doesn't look so good if you want to get out of it, but politically, it probably can be done with the support of other European leaders.
Eric Degerland asks when UK passports are going to change.
Kevin Connolly says: This takes us to the heart of an issue that lots of people really care about.
It will be a real and palpable sign of Brexit when there is a new UK passport without the words "European Union" on the front cover.
Sadly, the short answer is we don't really know when the change will come about.
Image copyright Getty Images But we can say that the cheapest thing for the government to do would be to phase in the new passports as people's old ones expire.
So if you're looking forward to getting back that blue hard-back passport we had in the old days, you may have a long time to wait.
The BBC's Reality Check team answered some of your questions about Theresa May's plans for EU citizens living in the UK.
Will Irish citizens be exempt from this five-year residency requirement, and continue to be afforded equal treatment with UK nationals?
Yes, Irish citizens residing in the UK will not need to apply for settled status to protect their entitlements as the UK government is committed to protecting the Common Travel Area arrangements.
Would EU citizens still be able to move to the UK in the next two years until March 2019?
Yes, they would.
The UK is a member of the EU until it withdraws, so the freedom of movement rules will apply until then.
Why shouldn't British courts have full jurisdiction over the rights of EU citizens living in the UK?
Wasn't that the whole point of Brexit?
The UK government says the European Court of Justice will not have jurisdiction over EU citizens' rights.
The EU demands that it does.
This is an important sticking point in the Brexit negotiations.
How can a lifetime stay be guaranteed?
Could a future government change the law?
Once the UK leaves the EU, any future government will in principle be able to propose amendments to the rules and the UK Parliament would decide on the new law.
I plan to retire to France within the next two years and buy a property.
Will this be possible after Brexit?
You can buy property and retire anywhere in the world, subject to the rules of the country you are retiring in.
So, you'll be able to do that but we don't know what your exact rights will be until the UK and EU conclude the citizens' rights negotiations.
I'm an EU national living in the UK but my wife is from outside the EU.
Is her status going to change?
Your wife, as a family member of an eligible EU citizen who has been resident in the UK before we leave the EU, will also be eligible to apply for settled status with you, provided that she too meets the settlement criteria and has been in a genuine relationship with you while resident in the UK.
Theresa May has formed her new government after the Conservatives lost their majority in the general election.
The prime minister's room for manoeuvre in the reshuffle was limited when her party was left with 318 MPs and Labour had 262.
Here's what we know so far.
The list will be updated as new appointments are made.
Prime Minister - Theresa May Image copyright Reuters Theresa May stays as prime minister despite not achieving the mandate for Brexit she had called the election for.
The UK's second female PM took up the role after David Cameron resigned in the wake of the EU referendum result.
She had previously been home secretary for six years.
Theresa May: Full profile Election 2017: Key points at-a-glance First Secretary of State - Damian Green Image copyright AFP Damian Green has been promoted to a new role the prime minister did not have in her first cabinet - that of first secretary of state.
As the same time he also replaces Ben Gummer as minister for the Cabinet Office after Mr Gummer lost his seat in the election.
The move effectively makes the former work and pensions secretary, a friend and ally of Theresa May, her second in command.
It could see Mr Green standing in for Mrs May at PMQs when she is not available.
The role - which was previously held by George Osborne and, under Labour, Peter Mandelson - gives Mr Green seniority over other cabinet ministers.
Chancellor of the Exchequer - Philip Hammond Image copyright PA Philip Hammond remains as chancellor of the exchequer.
He was foreign secretary under David Cameron from 2014 to 2016, having previously served as defence secretary and transport secretary.
Mr Hammond, 61, is seen at Westminster as the ultimate safe pair of hands steering Britain's economy through the post-Brexit period ahead.
Sometimes mocked as "box office Phil" for what some see as his dull delivery, he forged a reputation in the shadow Treasury team as the Tories' public spending "axeman".
Foreign Secretary - Boris Johnson Image copyright AFP No change at the Foreign Office as Boris Johnson keeps his job.
Despite hints from some of the newspapers that Mr Johnson, 52, may turn his hand to trying to lead the party, he has categorically dismissed such claims.
Mr Johnson said that while the public would be wondering about the future of the current government, Mrs May had got the biggest Conservative mandate anyone had achieved for decades.
"I'm going to be backing her, and absolutely everybody I'm talking to is going to be backing her as well."
Home Secretary - Amber Rudd Image copyright Reuters Amber Rudd remains as home secretary despite only narrowly holding her seat as MP for Hastings and Rye.
During the election campaign, she stood in for the PM in the BBC's televised debate in May.
Ms Rudd was previously energy and climate change secretary, a position she held for just one year.
The former investment banker, venture capitalist and financial journalist, aged 53, decided to enter politics in her 40s in order to get "a grip on her life".
Secretary of State for Exiting the EU - David Davis Image copyright Reuters David Davis keeps his job of secretary of state for exiting the European Union - or "Brexit secretary".
The role was created in July to take the lead in negotiating the UK's exit from the EU.
A veteran Eurosceptic, he has previously held the positions of Conservative party chairman and shadow deputy prime minister.
Between 2003 and 2008, he was the shadow home secretary under both Michael Howard and David Cameron.
Mr Davis, 68, lost to David Cameron in the 2005 Tory leadership contest.
Defence Secretary - Michael Fallon Image copyright AFP Michael Fallon has kept his job at the Ministry of Defence - a position the 65-year-old has held since 2014.
He was Conservative MP for Darlington from 1983 to 1992 - initially during Margaret Thatcher's time in Downing Street - and after leaving Parliament was later re-elected as MP for Sevenoaks in 1997.
A former Conservative Party deputy chairman, Mr Fallon has previously served as energy and business minister, and before that secretary of state for business and enterprise.
Secretary of State for International Trade - Liam Fox Image copyright AFP Liam Fox, 55, continues as the secretary of state for international trade.
He was made secretary of state for defence in 2010 but resigned in 2011 over allegations he had given a close friend, lobbyist Adam Werritty, access to the Ministry of Defence and allowed him to join official trips overseas.
Mr Fox stood in the leadership race against Theresa May but was eliminated in the first ballot after winning the support of just 16 MPs.
He told reporters he was "delighted" to keep the job he has held since July last year.
"It's now time for the whole of the Conservative party to rally behind the prime minister and get a government in the national interest."
Justice Secretary - David Lidington Image copyright PA Former Leader of the House of Commons David Lidington gets the job of justice secretary, replacing Liz Truss.
He had been Europe Minister since 2010 but moved across to aid the smooth running of the Commons in 2016.
The Cambridge history graduate and father-of-four has been MP for Aylesbury since 1992.
He previously worked for BP and mining firm Rio Tinto.
Leader of the House of Lords - Baroness Evans Image copyright PA Baroness Evans of Bowes Park keeps her job as the leader of the House of Lords.
When appointed in 2016, it was her first ministerial role since being ennobled by David Cameron in 2014.
She attended London's Henrietta Barnett School and Cambridge University before becoming deputy director of the Conservative research department, deputy director of the Policy Exchange think-tank and chief operating officer of the New Schools Network - the organisation which ran Michael Gove's free schools programme.
Health Secretary - Jeremy Hunt Image copyright Reuters Jeremy Hunt remains in his post despite the problems within the NHS.
He took over the health portfolio following a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, and at the time described the appointment as the "biggest privilege of my life".
But in a tweet he admitted there were "challenges ahead, but also huge opportunities to make our NHS even better".
Last year, Mr Hunt was locked in a battle with the British Medical Association over a new contract for junior doctors, which led to a series of strikes.
Education Secretary - Justine Greening Image copyright PA Justine Greening has kept her roles as education secretary and minister for women and equalities.
She is part of the most diverse Parliament yet as she openly defines herself as a lesbian.
At London Pride in 2016, the 48-year-old announced in a tweet she was in a same-sex relationship, saying "I campaigned for Stronger In but sometimes you're better off out!".
Ms Greening replaced Nicky Morgan at education in 2016, leaving her international development secretary post, which she was promoted to in 2011.
She has been MP for Putney since 2005.
Transport Secretary - Chris Grayling Image copyright Reuters Chris Grayling remains as transport secretary in Theresa May's cabinet.
The former Leader of the House has been dealing with Southern Rail's disrupted services, the question of Heathrow's third runway and the high speed rail link, HS2.
He also served as shadow transport secretary from December 2005 to 2007.
Culture Secretary - Karen Bradley Image copyright Getty Images Karen Bradley has kept her role as Culture, Media and Sport Secretary.
She had been working with Theresa May as a Home Office minister since 2014.
She was first elected MP for Staffordshire Moorlands in May 2010.
Environment Secretary - Michael Gove Image copyright EPA Michael Gove has made a comeback, with the prime minister bringing him back into cabinet and appointing him environment secretary.
In the 2016 reshuffle he was sacked as justice secretary and before that he served under David Cameron as education secretary and chief whip in the Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
Despite campaigning alongside Boris Johnson for Brexit, he withdrew his support for Mr Johnson to be Conservative leader and prime minister, choosing instead to stand himself.
He was eliminated in the final round of voting by MPs, coming third.
Mr Gove's surprise move to stand for the leadership effectively dashed his colleague's hopes of winning and prompted Mr Johnson's withdrawal from the contest.
Work and Pensions Secretary - David Gauke Image copyright AFP A sideways step for David Gauke, with the PM appointing him as the new work and pensions secretary.
He was previously the Chief Secretary to the Treasury, who attends cabinet but does not have a ministerial role.
Mr Gauke has been the MP for Hertfordshire South West since 2005.
He is a qualified solicitor and worked for a leading City firm until he was elected.
Communities Secretary - Sajid Javid Image copyright AFP Sajid Javid keeps his job as secretary of the department for communities and local government.
He held this position in 2014 before being appointed to business secretary a year later.
A former managing director of Deutsche Bank, Mr Javid has been MP for Bromsgrove in Worcestershire since 2010.
He stood on a "joint ticket" with Stephen Crabb for the leadership election, hoping to be chancellor if Mr Crabb had become PM.
Northern Ireland Secretary - James Brokenshire Image copyright PA James Brokenshire continues as the Northern Ireland Secretary.
He previously worked with the PM at the Home Office, where he was immigration minister.
From 2011 to 2015, he served as security minister at the Home Office with responsibility for domestic national security and counter-terrorism.
This included supporting the home secretary with oversight of the work of MI5 and the national police counter-terrorism network.
Mr Brokenshire's responsibilities also included the government's counter-terrorism strategy and he was part of the prime minister's "extremism taskforce".
He also led negotiations with the Jordanian government to secure the deportation of the radical cleric Abu Qatada.
Welsh Secretary - Alun Cairns Image copyright PA Alun Cairns, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, remains in his cabinet role as secretary of state for Wales.
The 46-year-old, who was born in Swansea and is a graduate of the University of Wales, Newport, was elected in 2010.
He worked in banking for a decade before his election to the Welsh Assembly.
Scottish Secretary - David Mundell Image copyright Reuters David Mundell will continue as secretary of state for Scotland.
He is one of 13 Scottish Conservatives to be in Parliament after this snap election.
Former prime minister David Cameron first appointed Mr Mundell to the post when he held his Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale seat for the third consecutive election in 2015.
In January 2015, Mr Mundell became the first openly-gay Conservative cabinet secretary.
Conservative Party chairman and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster - Patrick McLoughlin Image copyright AFP Patrick McLoughlin remains as the Conservative Party chairman and chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
He left his role as transport secretary in 2016 but has been an MP since 1986.
The former miner also served as chief whip after being appointed to the role in David Cameron's first cabinet.
Business and Energy Secretary - Greg Clark Image copyright PA Greg Clark keeps his job as secretary of state of business, energy and industrial strategy.
The role, when it was created by Labour's Gordon Brown, was originally called the Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Last year, it was merged into the new department and lost the "climate change" part of its name.
Environmentalists immediately expressed concern that the reshaping of departments showed the government was downgrading climate change as a priority.
International Development Secretary - Priti Patel Image copyright Reuters Priti Patel remains as International Development Secretary.
She was promoted from her role as employment minister, which she held for a year, in 2016.
Ms Patel became MP for Witham in 2010 and joined the front bench as a Treasury minister in 2014.
She is no stranger to controversy, having previously advocated bringing back the death penalty and was accused of "divide and rule politics" during the referendum campaign for claiming that "biased" immigration policy prevents curry chefs from outside the EU from working in the UK.
On her appointment, she immediately faced calls to guarantee the UK's legal commitment to spending 0.7% of GDP on overseas aid.
In other appointments:
Video The Dogs Trust and Kennel Club's Westminster dog of the year contest was won by Rocky, a chocolate labrador owned by Labour MP Tracy Brabin.
The Batley and Spen MP, only elected a year ago, said: "I'm delirious.
I feel like I've won Miss World."
Meet other contestants from 2017
Video The universal basic income plan would see every citizen given cash, regardless of how wealthy they are or whether they have a job, and that could do away with most of the benefits system.
It may sound far-fetched to some but is gaining support across the political spectrum and four councils in Scotland, with the backing of the Scottish government, are looking into piloting it.
Daily Politics reporter Ellie Price went to Glasgow, where she met some who back the policy.
Video Westminster can be a bruising game for politicians, and even their four-legged friends go into annual battle.
The Kennel Club and The Dogs Trust organise the Westminster dog of the year event, where 12 MPs pit their furry friends against each other.
Daily Politics reporter Emma Vardy met some of the entrants.
Meet the winning dog Rocky
Video All MPs should have "due care and attention" on how they refer to others, the prime minister has said.
She had been asked about comments reportedly by Labour MP Jared O'Mara, where he has apologised for some and denied others, and been suspended by his party which is investigating them.
Addressing the House of Commons, Theresa May said MPs should "show women in public life the respect they deserve."
Video The prime minister told MPs she was confident there would be a Brexit deal "in time for this Parliament to have the vote we committed to".
She was questioned by Labour MP Stephen Kinnock who asked her to explain how it was possible to have a "meaningful vote on something that has already taken place."
Their exchange came after comments by David Davis, at Wednesday's Brexit select committee, where he suggested the vote may come after March 2019, when the UK leaves the EU.
Video Driving instructors are in "a position of trust" and should be covered by the same laws as school teachers over sex with those they are teaching, the Commons has heard.
Richard Graham MP told the prime minster of a "distressed" constituent who found out about the relationship between his 17-year-old daughter and a middle-aged driving instructor.
Theresa May said she would raise the request from the Gloucester MP with a government department.
